ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u1	The next item is the discussion of the draft law on differentiation, decentralization, deconcentration and various measures to simplify local public action (No. 4406, 4721). The Conference of Presidents decided to apply the scheduled legislative time procedure to this discussion, on the basis of time allocated to the forty-hour groups.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u2	The Minister for Territorial Cohesion and Relations with Local and Regional Authorities has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u3	Forty years ago, in this very place, France was taking a decisive turn in its history. Our country, shaped for centuries by a centralizing tradition unique in Europe, took the path of decentralization and recognized that the republican model was perfectly compatible with the shared exercise of public action and that it could even be revived. Forty years is at the same time little and much in the history of France; It's the age of maturity, some say,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u4	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u5	... "the age when we become what we are," wrote Charles Péguy. Forty years later, what became of us? Where are we? Decentralisation has strengthened the French's deep commitment to the territories, their diversity, the immense richness of landscapes, climates and heritage. It has brought forth generations of local elected officials and dedicated territorial agents of all their forces to serve their territory and the general interest. Proximity has gradually become a cardinal value, both for public action and for the exercise of democracy. I myself have witnessed this long movement throughout my political life, at every level, if I dare to say: as mayor, then as president of intercommunality, departmental councillor, regional councillor, senator and now as minister. I have seen decentralization gradually become our common good, but I have also seen its difficulties. Yes, decentralization has sometimes been accompanied by the indifference and incomprehension of our fellow citizens with regard to the complexity of a system that intertwines competences, thus responsibilities, in the face of norms that accumulate and hinder action; facing changing perimeters; face, sometimes, competition between territories and the temptation of the pre-square; It must also be said that the gradual removal of the State, which has further strengthened the sense of abandonment in some territories. In 2017, the President of the Republic set a new course to restore all his strength to the decentralizing ideal, first by making the choice of institutional stability, a choice assumed after decades of continuous and endless reform, which had not made it possible to offer more efficiency to the territories and which had overtaken elected officials and organizations. It was time to let elected officials work. When developments were proposed, such as the creation of the European Community of Alsace, it was because they were defended by the elected representatives themselves. This new heading was also intended to give elected officials the means to act: stabilisation of the overall operating allocation (GF), after years of decline; historically high investment allocation, further reinforced by the recovery plan; end of the slow erosion of the departmental services of the State. This is also reflected in the contractual renewal that we have undertaken and in the major national programmes – Action coeur de ville, Small cities of tomorrow or France very high-speed – that we launched with the Agence nationale de la cohesion des territoires (ANCT) to accompany all the territories from their project. Finally, this new course has resulted in a legislative action that we have taken together since 2018 with, dear Bruno Questel, the law on engagement in local life and proximity to public action, known as "engagement and proximity", which has been an important first step to facilitate the action of elected officials and to offer them a better status; then with the organic law of 19 April 2021 on the simplification of experiments implemented on the basis of the fourth paragraph of Article 72 of the Constitution, dear Stéphane Mazars; with the law on the competences of the European community of Alsace, dear Rémy Rebeyrotte; and more recently with the reform of the formation of elected officials, dear Bruno Questel again, adopted unanimously by both chambers. These legislative reforms, we conducted them together with pragmatism, step by step, brick by brick and always in a calmed state of mind. Because if everyone here has their convictions, I think we share the same requirement: to simplify public action, to remove unnecessary obstacles and to facilitate the daily lives of mayors and elected officials. The bill on differentiation, decentralization, deconcentration and simplification of local public action, says 3DS, is part of the filiation of the work that we have done hand in hand since 2017 at the service of the territories. I would like to commend the high quality of the work of the rapporteurs...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u6	There are many of them!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u7	... and commissions, seized on the merits or for opinion. The bill comes in session, particularly enriched by this work, I would like to point out. The committees took full advantage of a text that the Senate had worked in a spirit of rigour and responsibility, in a constructive dialogue with the Government. There are of course points of divergence between the two chambers, that is quite normal; But there will also be, at the end of the discussions, a broad common foundation that can bring together those who wish to make the daily lives of local elected representatives more pragmatistic. This text has been matured for a long time. For two years, I have travelled through the territories – your territories – to meet with the elected representatives, to listen to them and to gather their expectations. All prefects have been mobilised; We worked with elected associations and twenty departments to bring this bill to a conclusion, which we wanted to be concrete, useful and on the ground. It is structured around four axes. First axis: differentiation. As a star of our action, it aims to give the elected representatives more flexibility so that they can adapt their action to the singularities of their territory, while respecting, of course, the principle of equality. Secondly, decentralization, which should give communities more opportunities to decide what new skills they want to exercise. Third axis: deconcentration, to strengthen the territorial state with the prefects. Fourth axis: simplification, to reduce the standards which weigh on the daily lives of our citizens and which hinder the action of elected officials. Around these four axes, we have built pragmatic responses to concrete needs formulated by local elected officials. They say we lack tools to revitalize their centrality: we propose to facilitate the recovery of property without master and to generalize the operations of revitalization of the territory. They would like to adapt the standard more finely to the realities of their territories: we propose to facilitate experiments, derogations and the possibilities of extending local regulatory power. They want to intervene alongside the state to combat medical desertification: we propose to involve them in the governance of the regional health agencies (ARS) and to give them the opportunity to finance staff and medical institutions. They express the need to be better accompanied in their engineering issues: we propose to further unify the State's voice around the prefects and to facilitate the use of the expertise of the Ecological Transition Agency (ADEME) and the Centre for Studies and Expertise on Risks, the Environment, Mobility and Planning (CEREMA). They want to be better protected in the exercise of their mandate: we propose to secure the modalities of any conflicts of interest they may face. This same spirit of pragmatism, we have also cultivated it to find solutions to more difficult questions that have sometimes arisen for many years. In the area of social housing, for example, we had to perpetuate the Act on Urban Solidarity and Renewal, known as the SRU, which was to end in 2025. With this text, we propose to retain the same construction objectives, giving them more flexibility to adapt to local constraints through contracting with the prefect, to which I believe a lot. On roads, after many exchanges with elected associations, we propose to continue the movement of decentralization, with an additional 10,000 kilometers of national roads...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u8	What a gift!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u9	...on a voluntary basis. We naturally propose this to the departments – which have a common competence in this field – and to the metropolises, as we did in Alsace, as well as to the regions, on an experimental basis. We will thus give consistency to the routes while allowing better spatial planning, by the territories. Finally, with regard to the metropolis of Aix-Marseille-Provence, we have worked very closely with all the actors of the territory, the president of the metropolis, the mayor of Marseille, the mayors of the member communes, the parliamentarians of the territory and the rapporteurs, in order to arrive at balanced proposals, which will enable the metropolis to be empowered to act while preserving the powers of proximity of the mayors. Ladies and gentlemen, since 2017, you and I have met many elected officials in the territories, in your respective constituencies. Their expectations are clear: they ask us for stability and means; they ask us to facilitate their work; They want a State that accompanies rather than a State that prescribes, that adapts rather than proscribes. That is the spirit that I am defending in this bill: the text is addressed to them, to the 520,000 local elected officials whose commitment is immensely rich. They are at the outposts of the Republic, we must be at their side. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] But this text is also intended for the 67 million French. For 40 years, we have been deepening decentralization for them, in order to meet their legitimate expectations for closer, more effective and simpler public action. This text is an additional step in this direction. Yes, together we have the opportunity to continue to chart this very French path; this path which guarantees the unity of the Republic while recognizing that the diversity of the territories is an invaluable asset; this path of decentralization which assembles the capacities of action to guarantee to each French the equality of the possible and the cohesion of the territories. The discussion that will suffer... forgiveness, opening up – I hope it will not be an opportunity for suffering – will allow us, I am sure, to move together towards this imperative necessity.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u10	I call Mr Bruno Questel, Rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u11	On 15 January 2019, the President of the Republic launched the great national debate, during which strong expectations were imposed on all They concerned strengthening community-based public action, better taking into account local specificities and easing the territorial organisation of public policies. The local actors, first and foremost the mayors, aspired to be better understood and supported in the exercise of their mission. They expressed their weariness as a result of the incessant institutional reforms adopted by alternations, many of them still having not overcome the trauma caused by the law on the new territorial organization of the Republic, known as OUR, and the law on the modernization of territorial public action and the affirmation of metropolises, known as MAPTAM. With the law "engagement and proximity", we have given elected representatives – especially the first of them, mayors – the opportunity to act on the daily lives of citizens. With the re-evaluation of the action of the elected officials thus acquiesced, the Government has handed over the work on the profession to propose us a useful and pragmatic text. It cannot be apprehended with eyes that hide everything that has been done during the legislature to reinforce the action of the local authorities. On the financial side, I am thinking of the sanctuarisation of the overall operating budget and of the major investment efforts made, in particular in times of crisis, with the recovery plan. They found their practical application with the provision of equipment in rural areas (DETR) as well as with the local investment support (DSIL) allocation. With regard to the principle of differentiation, we have begun to apply it by adopting the reform of the testing procedures. This was the foundation stone of the building that we are completing as early as clause 1 of the bill. Without going into the details of the provisions of Titles I to V, which I have the honour to report, I will note the affirmation of the principle of differentiation. It is essential for a finer and smarter approach to public policies, in order to address the specific problems of the different territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u12	Especially for regional languages!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u13	Whether these are measures adapted to cross-border issues, the long-awaited experimentation of differentiated financing of the RSA in metropolitan France or the development of the regulatory power of local authorities, we lay the foundations for a practice that will inevitably have to be extended. During the examination in committee, we thoroughly rewritten Articles 6, 7 and 8, after consultation with the departments and regions. They aim to open up a new act of road decentralization. The provisions contained therein will make it possible to transfer roads from the national network to the departments and metropolises, and to experiment with the provision of certain routes to the regions. With regard to the managers of colleges and high schools, the Government had proposed, with article 41, a beginning of the solution to the difficulties encountered in the field for decades. As this section was removed by the Senate, we reinstated it in the Law Commission. I will propose that you go further, perhaps with a more precise and concrete device, on which I am sure we will find ourselves collectively. Originally composed of 84 articles, this bill almost tripled in volume during its consideration in the Senate. It has 217 after the review of the laws. Many of the additions have proved relevant and are intended to lay the foundation for a joint work of our two chambers. Nevertheless, some articles had to be deleted. I salute the two Senate rapporteurs, Françoise Gatel and Mathieu Darnaud, who, as usual, worked for the local communities, with the persuasive force that characterizes them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u14	Not sure it's enough for the Joint Joint Committee!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u15	Don't anticipate, Mr. Jumel, don't cry until you get hurt... Maina Sage, Élodie Jacquier-Laforge and I will meet them in the Joint Joint Committee (JC) to work with them – but obviously not with you – in accordance with our two assemblies, to strengthen communities, within the innovative framework we wish to adopt. My two fellow draftsmen of the Committee on Laws, the rapporteurs of the other three committees referred to for opinions and I have carried out a thorough and fruitful work, based on listening and pragmatism. The four committees adopted 48 articles in the terms proposed by the Senate; they amended 109, deleted 59 and added 45 in total. I would like to pay tribute to the work of the administrators of our Assembly, as I welcome, for its contribution, the delegation to local authorities and decentralization, chaired by Jean-René Cazeneuve. I would also like to thank you, Minister, for the working relations that you have created: they have enabled us to move forward every day in the preparation of the text that we are presenting here for debate. You started the work of consultation almost two years ago; Since then, you have not deviated from your course, showing unwavering consistency and determination. I know that your concern for listening and consultation is permanent, you have kept it until the last minute on certain subjects – I am thinking in particular of the metropolis of Aix-Marseille-Provence, which we will have to discuss again during the examination of Article 56. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] I hope that we will have constructive and calm discussions, which will, I am sure, lead to a balanced and fair law, in the interests of all local and regional authorities.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u16	Mrs Élodie Jacquier-Laforge, Rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u17	Titles VI and VII, of which I am particularly concerned, embrace a variety of welcome provisions on deconcentration and simplification of local action. They are intended for elected officials and are also intended to improve service to the public. Let us not forget that this text, although very technical in several respects, is also pragmatic in that it aims to simplify the lives of our citizens. Title VI is devoted to deconcentration measures. Several provisions tend to strengthen the role of the prefects, including the prefect of the region, who becomes territorial delegate of ADEME, and the prefect coordinator of the basin.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u18	Huge!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u19	CEREMA will make its expertise available to local and regional authorities who wish to do so. The France Services houses will finally be registered in the law. I will not have time to mention all the simplification measures provided for in Title VII,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u20	It'd be too long!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u21	...but I want to mention some of them. Those relating to the exchange of information between administrations have thus been usefully supplemented in committee in order to give concrete effect to the Tell us once and to combat the non-use of rights. We have enriched Article 50 in order to allow the administrations to allocate the aid directly, and have included a section dedicated to people in employment and social integration – on my initiative and on the initiative of the working Republic Group. We have also enriched the arrangements for local assemblies to hold their meetings in videoconference, to include the permanent committees and assemblies of Corsica, Guyana and Martinique.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u22	That's good!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u23	I come to Article 56 and to the important reform of the metropolis of Aix-Marseille-Provence. After a consultation in which all the elected representatives were associated – and we also heard them – the Government proposes to strengthen the role of the metropolis, to finally give it the necessary means of action. This leads to the disappearance of the territorial councils, with timely transitional measures, and to the reassignment of local powers to the municipalities, while reflecting on the financial relations that the metropolis has with the municipalities. We will certainly have rich debates on this subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u24	Riches, it is the endowments to the communes that should be!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u25	In any case, I welcome the government initiative, which bears witness to the State's attention to the second metropolis of France. Article 59 will allow for greater cooperation between cross-border communities, opening up the possibility for foreign communities to invest in local public companies. This meets a real need: these structures will promote joint projects, for example the development of cross-border transport services or networks, by pooling costs. On the initiative of Messrs. Waserman, Arend and Herth, we created a new title in the Labour Code to better accompany cross-border learning. The Commission has also specified the arrangements for the management of the responsibility of the guardians of natural spaces, which will benefit the climbing sites; The aim was to maintain the original purpose, while ensuring a necessary balance. A whole series of articles concern local public enterprises (LPEs). In fact, recent evaluation reports have noted the real enthusiasm that the use of equity and filialisation processes by local public enterprises has generated. These techniques allow for the diversification of the activity of PLEs, but they are not without risk to the communities. Articles 70 and 71 provide answers to these issues by improving the control of the deliberative assemblies of local and regional authorities and their shareholders' groups on PLEs, and by strengthening the presence of auditors in the undertakings concerned. The prevention of conflicts of interest is still a crucial aspect of PLEs. Articles 73a and 73b provide useful clarification. The committee has adopted an amendment which, as I have put it, aims to extend to all PLEs and their subsidiaries the framework – including the capping – of the allowances of elected officials. It also supplemented the simplification measures relating to declarations to the High Authority for the Transparency of Public Life (HATVP), which the Senate had introduced. The text also contains interesting developments in the evaluation of public policies. In particular, Article 74 will allow local and regional authorities to refer the matter of evaluation to the relevant Regional Court of Auditors. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem, LaREM and Agir ens groups]] Finally, with respect to funeral rights, the Senate has also enriched the text with provisions that we have completed. I will propose experiments on humping and watering, in order to respond to the demands expressed on this subject by communities and many of our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u26	I call Mrs Maina Sage, Rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u27	This bill, one of the last major pieces of legislation in the legislature, responds to certain problems that also affect the overseas and the lives of our fellow citizens who reside there. Differentiation, decentralization, deconcentration and simplification are subjects which, almost naturally, concern the overseas communities, which have geographical, legal and cultural specificities which involve approaching the law differently. As I said in committee, we must not talk about the overseas, but about the overseas countries, which represent five departments, five communities and New Caledonia, which enjoys a special status, eleven territories, spread over three oceans, situated between 8,000 and more than 20,000 kilometres from Hexagon and comprising nearly 3 million people. It is always complicated to adapt the law in these territories; It's a lace job. Thank you, Madam Minister, for listening; I would also like to thank the other departments, including the overseas department, with whom we have tried, in this bill, to adapt, as far as possible, certain arrangements. As I pointed out in the Committee on Laws, beyond Title VIII alone, the overseas countries and territories are affected by the whole text. You will not be surprised, therefore, that many of my colleagues and I were defending amendments on them throughout our future debates. Because of the limited time available to me, I will focus on Title VIII, addressing issues of major natural hazards, land, environmental management, the police, the adaptation of the Coastal Law and the legibility of the law. Article 75 aims to organize, for five years, the state of exceptional natural calamity in the overseas territories. I wanted it to be adapted for the communities governed by section 74 of the Constitution. This is due in particular to the experience gained with cyclone Irma, which has seriously affected the West Indies. Both chambers wanted a report to be prepared in order to improve the resilience to such events and the management of major risks. Three key areas were identified: prevention, risk management and reconstruction. I have therefore defended in committee amendments which aim to supplement the state of exceptional natural calamity, with preventive measures of training and information to schools and private sector employees – and we will also mention, in the sitting, the employees of the public sector. My amendments also aim to complement the measures relating to reconstruction, in order to facilitate their stages.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u28	Of course, I also hear concerns about the cumulation of the state of exceptional natural calamity with that of natural disaster, which is an assurance: in order to reassure parliamentarians and the territories, can you, Madam Minister, confirm that the first will not result in less consideration of the state of natural disaster, which is a tool at the disposal of the communes? Finally, on the land side, the provision on 50-step geometric agencies, already introduced in the "climate and resilience" law, should be deleted. However, I will defend an appeal amendment to arrange for the transfer of this jurisdiction in order to meet the deadlines: we propose that the chair of the board of directors return to the community and that a follow-up committee be established. Other amendments will be aimed at adapting the law on the coast, for Guyana, for Mayotte, and – I will be sensitive – for La Réunion. The question of land is a major issue for the overseas, at the heart of our families and economic development: the law must evolve on this point, because the application of the current provisions of the Civil Code is not effective. We will also address the issue of the legibility of the law. [[Applause on the banks of the Action ens, LaREM and Dem groups]] Finally, I thank all the representatives of the communities we interviewed. Rome did not take place in one day: it is a first step and the law applicable overseas must continue to evolve, so that it is readable and accessible.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u29	Mr Mickaël Nogal, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u30	I have the honour of being, once again, draftsman of a bill on housing for the French: the bill says 3DS – decentralization, deconcentration, differentiation and simplification of public action. The Committee on Economic Affairs has examined a number of its articles on housing, urban planning, the competence of the chambers of agriculture, the securing of gas distribution networks or the dissolution of the public establishment of the national stud of Pin. Being unfamiliar with the equine world, I discovered a new subject. In this respect, we have agreed with our colleague Jérôme Nury, Member of Parliament for the constituency, to organise the visit of this haras, if the Joint Joint Committee is final – what I am working on. Madam Minister, dear Jacqueline Gourault, I am sure you will agree to join us: the invitation has been launched! After two concluding CMPs – on the Law on Housing, Planning and Digital Development, known as ELAN, and on the Law on Climate and Resilience – I have no doubt that we will find, together with our fellow senators and the rapporteur of the text in the Senate, Dominique Estrosi Sassone, for the third time, an agreement on this text which also concerns housing. Because of the limited time available to me, I will concentrate on the issue of social housing. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister responsible for housing, Emmanuelle Wargon, very friendlyly. We share the same commitment to the social model that, thanks in particular to the SRU Act, passed in 2000, allows our country to have 5 million social housing units. In this way, France can pride itself on having the largest social housing stock in all Western countries: by comparison, this stock accounts for only 8% of the total housing stock in Germany. However, the situation in which millions of French people find themselves must challenge us: I welcome in this regard the sustainability of the SRU law, which expired in 2025, but which, thanks to this bill, integrates the construction of social housing as an imperative, wherever the situation requires it. The Union sociale pour l'habitat (USH) has given us some important figures, which could inform our debates: more than seven in ten French citizens are eligible for social housing; 2.2 million households are waiting for the allocation of social housing; 50% of French people live or have lived in social housing. I'm in this last category. I've had this chance, and that's why I want it to be given to the greatest number, in a logic of residential path and emancipation. Far from a caricatural image too widespread, social housing is not the most precarious housing, but that of the working class and the middle class. It also makes it possible to welcome people under the Housing Plan first, to end emergency accommodation and to restore dignity to each of our fellow citizens, regardless of their life course, because unfortunately we can all experience accidents.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u31	It's a pretty good speech!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u32	Since 2000, the legislator has had the opportunity to clarify the means to achieve the objectives, taking into account the diversity of the territories and the needs of our fellow citizens. We can now affirm that the SRU law...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u33	A communist law!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u34	...is a constructive and virtuous approach to the service of the French. To take stock of this, 2109 communes are located in SRU territory and 773 of them respect the legal rate; On the other hand, 1111 municipalities do not comply with their social housing obligations: although they have made a major commitment under the SRU Act to catch up, 684 of them are subject to a levy, for a total net amount of 104 million euros, which is used to finance social rental housing.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u35	That's good!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u36	Thus, many municipalities are ultimately not sanctioned because they reinvest in housing. Finally, because the legislator has been able to adapt the exemption criteria – there are three – 225 communes are not required to apply the SRU law. To those who want to make believe that the SRU law applies blindly, without any differentiation,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u37	They're not here anyway!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u38	...I reply that these figures speak for themselves and show that such remarks are unfounded. To perpetuate and sanctify the SRU law is therefore not a punishment but a chance, that of allowing a real mix, thanks to all the tools made available to the local elected representatives: they are best placed, at the level of municipalities and intercommunalities, to determine what the policies of attribution should be. This desire for decentralization and differentiation led us, with the ELAN law, to leave it to the communities to decide whether or not the framework of rents was relevant, at the level of their territory, and, with this text, to extend the experiment and to reopen a period of investigation for the territories which wish to be included in this framework. In the hope of a conclusive CMP,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u39	It's not won!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u40	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] ... our goal is to sanctify the social model of housing in France, in order to give each of our fellow citizens the opportunity to live in dignity. It is in this spirit of social and territorial cohesion that we must examine all the amendments that we will have to debate, in order to ensure that France remains one and indivisible: social housing is part of this republican base. I therefore invite you to vote in favour of this bill, for progress and for the French.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u41	Mr Didier Martin, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Social Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u42	In essence, the Committee on Social Affairs has examined 18 articles, almost half of which are the result of Senate initiatives on many subjects, such as health and social cohesion. It proposed the adoption, with amendments, of nine of these and seven other articles without amendment, as well as the deletion of one article and the addition of six others. It did not revert to the deletion of article 38, which dealt with the transfer of the guardianship of pupils from the State to the departments. In this regard, I would like to refer to the most emblematic measures in the part of the text that we have examined. The first part concerns health and health safety. Article 31 aims to reform the governance of regional health agencies. In the face of criticism of the ARS, Prime Minister Jean Castex said, Friday evening, in front of the Congress of the Assembly of the French Departments (ADF): "We must strengthen the place of local elected representatives in the governance of the ARS. » The Committee on Social Affairs has adopted the amendment which I have defended, granting three vice-presidents on the future board of directors, at the three territorial levels – communal, departmental and regional – which will allow them to be more involved in the implementation of health policy at regional level. On the other hand, the commission did not agree with the Senate's amendments, which were to entrust the joint chair of the future board of directors to the regional prefect and the chair of the regional council, and to give the council the authority to approve the regional health project. Article 32 guarantees the legal participation of local and regional authorities in the financing of the investment programme of health institutions, thus meeting a widely expressed expectation of the elected representatives. The committee reviewed two developments proposed by senators: on the one hand, the principle of limiting the participation of communities in the financing of investments in medical equipment alone; and, on the other hand, the principle of limiting the participation of communities in the financing of investments in medical equipment alone. On the other hand, the specialisation of investments which can be financed by departments and regions. Article 33 is intended to strengthen the Territory's health network by enabling health centre management communities to recruit staff and assign them to carry out their tasks. This article, which enshrines an existing practice, meets the objective of clarifying and securing the recruitment process and the status of these professionals, as does Article 34, which confirms the participation of departments in public health security policy. Finally, I would like to point out that the Social Affairs Committee unanimously voted in accordance with Rule 31a in favour of keeping in force the rule on the presence of parliamentarians in the supervisory boards of public health institutions, a measure resulting from the Act of 26 April 2021 of our colleague Stéphanie Rist. The second part is that of social cohesion and solidarity. The text contains strong measures, such as, in Article 35, the recentralisation of active solidarity income and solidarity income overseas. Article 36 is intended to entrust the Department with the responsibility of coordinating the development of inclusive housing and adapting housing to the ageing of the population. Article 36 bis B, on the sustainability of experimentation, allows regional centres for academic and academic works (CROUS) to rent unoccupied university housing to priority audiences. Our committee has also adopted several very important additional articles – Articles 36a A et seq. – aimed at simplifying and facilitating the lives of persons with disabilities by promoting their access to social or medico-social institutions and services (ESSMS) and temporary employment. Finally, I will not forget the solutions, long-awaited overseas, of intermediate habitat adapted to the loss of autonomy. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] In conclusion, I hope that we will further improve this text, which meets many expectations of the local elected representatives, and which, above all, will have a very concrete impact on the lives of our citizens. This is our common wish, because we are not gathered to adjust, once again, the laws of decentralization to contemporary realities or to try to explain to the French that their lives should conform to the administrative and institutional organization: we have to "recast the role of the State and the territorial authorities in the daily life of French and French people and to adapt this role to the transitions that our country must face", according to the words that, pronounced by the President of the Republic in the Senate at the National Conference of Territories in July 2017, summarize the ambition of the text, in particular the articles that were entrusted to the Social Affairs Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u43	Mr Jean-Claude Leclabart, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u44	This bill is the result of a method and the expression of a will. It is the result of a method because it is the result of a long cycle of consultations that the Government and the majority have conducted for more than two years with those who, on a daily basis, act in the service of the citizens and represent them: the mayors, the presidents of intercommunality, department, region and the members of the assemblies concerned. The Committee on Sustainable Development and Spatial Planning has dealt with certain articles and opinions on others. They cover the wide range of its competences since they address road transport, the energy transition, the protection of natural spaces, the management of water resources, rural roads, France Services houses, but also the bodies we know well: the ADEME, the French Biodiversity Office (OFB), the ANCT and the CEREMA. [[Smile. – Mrs Élodie Jacquier-Laforge, rapporteur, applauds]] Our committee has carried out extensive and fruitful work. Together with my colleague Laurianne Rossi, whom I congratulate on having since become a young mother, we have conducted more than 20 hearings to seek the opinion of those who work every day in the service of the general interest. The vision we are defending is that of a useful, concrete, ground-based law. The aim is to simplify the exercise of local authorities at all levels where it is possible to do so, and to remove rules that are too restrictive or too blind to the realities of the territories. As a whole, the bill promotes a vision of simplification and reflects the way we have been designing public action since 2017, as the President of the Republic recalled two weeks ago in the gallery of the Congress of Mayors. We welcome the progress made by the Government in rewriting articles 6 and 7, which open the possibility for voluntary departments to transfer national roads and, for voluntary regions, to make those roads available on an experimental basis; They are one of the major features of this bill. As such, the drafting of implementing decrees should be given special attention in order to meet the high expectations of local elected officials on the conditions of transfer. As for Article 9, it clarifies the conditions for the transfer of management of small railway lines. It complements Article 172 of the Law of 24 December 2019 on the orientation of mobility (LOM) which facilitates this transfer to the regions, in particular by including stations and providing for the conditions for making employees available at the time of the transfer.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u45	It's called the hot potato law!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u46	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] Minister, for nearly two years now, there has been a concerted effort with the elected representatives of the territories. Since then, you have not deviated from your course, showing unwavering determination. I hope we will have constructive discussions on the substance: they will lead, I hope, to a balanced, just and beneficial text for the future of all local and regional authorities and for the interests they have to defend on a daily basis for the good of our citizens. That is the state of mind in which we are approaching this debate, which I hope will be as interesting and constructive as it was in committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u47	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u48	I have received from Mrs Mathilde Panot and from members of the La France group a motion to reject in advance pursuant to Rule 91(5) of the Rules of Procedure. Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u49	You're recidivating. Once again, you make a draft text, difficult to read, composed of 200 articles, some of which amend laws that are less than four months old, such as the one on combating climate change and strengthening resilience to its effects;...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u50	It's true that we need to concentrate!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u51	...it's original. The maxim would like you to think about it before you act, but it seems that we were watching live your goings and goings, your hesitations and your delays. In line with the so-called ASAP law on the acceleration and simplification of public action, we are now looking at the bill on differentiation, decentralization and deconcentration and introducing various measures to simplify local public action – and again, we have been able to avoid adding the term "decomplexification" in this barbaric title. If it is a logic, a guiding principle that presides over this text is to do everything and guide your public action since its beginnings, it is simplification. Simplify, simplify, simplify; But for who? Since the beginning of Emmanuel Macron's quinquennium, the answer is clear: the simplification shock is aimed at private interests, and especially those of the rich, by a curious logic that the rich would have a hard life and that it should be further simplified. Yet, in our country, accumulating endless wealth has never been easier. In France, the wealth of the ultrarich is the most indecent in the world: it has increased by 439 per cent in ten years. In France, CAC40 companies contribute EUR 51 billion to shareholders, an increase of 22% in 2021. In France, billionaires are the richest in Europe. Our proposal to tax those who took advantage of the epidemic and our national misfortune: refused! The ban on paying dividends during this period: refused! The restoration of the solidarity tax on wealth, even temporarily: refused! All of this would be pure demagogy: what is the point of trying to attract the support of the masses when you need only that of the most fortunate. On the other hand, simplification does not concern the poorest: the more macroist, the more difficult they are to live. The fight against the unemployed rather than unemployment is a prerequisite for any good macroist who respects himself. Your reform will make it possible to save EUR 2.3 billion on the backs of those who are unemployed. Nevertheless, it must be recognized, you are champions to simplify dismissals,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u52	You've got the wrong text!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u53	... since you have destroyed the labour code to create a work code undertaken per company. It's called simplification, maybe? Bravo, you've succeeded in your mission. Simplify, simplify, simplify. In your ASAP law, it was the turn of the companies: it was necessary to facilitate their installation procedures, without telling us what they would produce or how, while limiting as much as possible the consultation on these projects. Above all, derisory procedures such as environmental impact assessments had to be liquidated to the maximum, or environmental standards had to be reduced to a level that met environmental standards – of course unnecessary in terms of environmental and climate emergencies. It was also a matter of destroying the public authority, without which these standards are nothing but pieces of paper, by reducing the tasks of environmental authorities and by replacing officials, for example those of the National Forestry Office (NFB) with employees of private law – and I pass by. One wonders who is intended to simplify the local action provided for in this bill. Probably not the citizens. It is laughable to think that Emmanuel Macron was thinking of such a bill in order to respond to the yellow vest crisis. In April 2019, at the end of the big debate,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u54	Here we go!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u55	[[Protests on a few benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] ... the President of the Republic had called for "opening up a new act of decentralization adapted to each territory", based on the principle of "territorial differentiation". So, it seemed to me that the yellow vests called for the referendum of citizens' initiative, the increase of the SMIC, the distribution of wealth and no longer for differentiation and decentralization. It is difficult to understand how the transfer of powers from one community to another would be a service to the general interest in a global context in which the DGF paid by the state to the local authorities has melted over the last ten years,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u56	Ten years, yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u57	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u58	...this decline has increased in the last four years. Therefore, differentiation combined with austerity can only promote inequalities between communities and citizens. I have to go back to what you call differentiation, simple fetish word to recognize one another as members of the Republican right. For example, Prime Minister Castex, who presented himself as the Prime Minister of the Territories – a vague and insipid formula – considered that different answers should be given to different situations. We know only too well what this differentiation means in your mouth: competition between communities and territories and widening inequalities. Madam Minister, you have set a cruel example of this with the current crisis in Guadeloupe. I have repeated it hundreds of times, but it is always good to remember what happened in 2021 in our country. In France, in 2021, in the midst of a pandemic, colleagues, some inhabitants do not have water to wash their hands, to drink, to cook or to shower; The pipes are in ruins. In France, in 2021, some citizens purchased tanks that they themselves paid for or at the rate of water towers. Some have water only on Sundays, others have never had it on the tap in six years. Children miss up to a month and a half a year because there is no water in school. These women and men, our compatriots, live in Guadeloupe. There, the majority of the population is contaminated with chlordecone, groundwater is also polluted by this insecticide, which poisoned bodies and land for six hundred years. At the peak of the epidemic, there were no masks, no tests, no drugs, no breathers. Last summer, at Pointe-à-Pitre Hospital, there were only two nurses per 100 patients. That is why the people find it good to revolt when they rightly realize that the Republican promise does not seem to apply beyond the Atlantic Ocean.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u59	You should be ashamed!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u60	Anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u61	What was the first answer given by the Minister for Overseas Affairs? The dispatch of the intervention group of the National Gendarmerie (GIGN) and the RAID – Research, assistance, intervention, deterrence. While the Guatemalans are on the street asking for answers to the cost of living, endemic unemployment, respect for the right to water and a quality health system, the minister proposes a debate on the autonomy of Guadeloupe. However, the Guatemalans do not want an umpteenth debate or unfulfilled promises: they demand first and foremost strict equality and respect for their dignity. No, colleagues, our parliamentary group is not among those who blame local and regional authorities when the state has failed. He is not one of those who will hide behind them to have nothing to settle. Differentiation is the 32 % higher food prices in Guadeloupe compared to Hexagon; differentiation is a poverty rate in Seine-Saint-Denis twice as high as the national average; Differentiation is defined as expenditure per child placed on social assistance for children which varies from simple to double according to the departments; differentiation is the 30% lower income in the overseas countries than in Hexagon; differentiation is our overseas compatriots eligible for 60% of social housing; Since 1995, 40 per cent of primary schools have disappeared since the 1980s, while the rural population has increased by 12 per cent over the same period. It would be time to take stock of the differentiation you are calling for. Our parliamentary group has a different vision of the nation: the urgency is to restore, if not establish, republican equality throughout the national territory. We are in favour of the renationalisation of the RSA, which should never have left the state budget, but we would not do so at all in the way you propose.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u62	All right?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u63	There is no mention of this in this text, but I want to say again here: we are of course in favour of renationalizing policies related to social assistance for children, so as to ensure the dignified and equitable protection of all children in our country. We assume the presence of a strong State and a regulatory public power, without which it is left to the private to decide for us, to the detriment of the ecological and climatic challenges we face. This is what you are doing in this text by allowing, for example, the transfer of unlicensed motorways and national roads to departments, metropolises and voluntary regions. Madam Minister, we do not agree. Full control of national transport infrastructure is a characteristic of a public authority guaranteeing the general interest and a central tool for spatial planning. With this text, you allow private or public actors to participate in the financing of certain projects for the development of unlicensed motorways, including interchanges. To make it clearer to our citizens, you allow companies like Disneyland to build an exchange to increase the attractiveness of its park, or like Amazon to build a road to access its mega warehouses. For the general interest and for the fight against the artificialisation of the soil, we will go back. Madam Minister, have you learned anything from the failure to privatize motorways? Do you not learn any lessons when, for 1 euro paid at the toll, 50 cents are used to satisfy the greed of shareholders? We are also demanding the renationalization of motorways and refusing any new transfers in order to reinvest massively in transport infrastructure in the context of ecological bifurcation. The same applies to housing. Your text does not provide for any upward revision of the objectives of the SRU law or any increase in the number of social housing units built, while 4 million people are poorly housed and 12 million are cold in their homes or unable to pay their bills. Do I have to recall that a certain Emmanuel Macron said in 2017 that he no longer wanted to see any men or women sleeping in the streets in 2018? In 2020, however, in general indifference, 587 people died on the street. They were on average 48 years old. Finally, you propose the continuation of the experiment of the supervision of rents. That's not enough! An article published yesterday in Le Monde recalls that 37% of rents are considered abusive in Paris and that this proportion reaches 43% in Seine-Saint-Denis. Faced with full speculation, 3.5% of households holding half of the apartments to rent, faced with the exploitation of poverty for the benefit of some, let's stop taking gloves! There is an urgent need to generalize the structure of rents throughout the country, to requisition the 3.1 million vacant dwellings and finally to undertake a major programme of thermal renovation and construction of social housing. We are not adversaries of local and regional authorities, on the contrary. The planning we call for will not apply from the top of the state, from offices in Paris, unilaterally and by crushing the various levels. The planning we want, through its construction and implementation, must give a central role to the communities and, above all, to the basic level of democracy, that of the communes. The fourth D that is missing from this bill is democracy: popular sovereignty must be expressed everywhere. The objectives of ecological and solidarity bifurcation will be decided collectively, and then, at each level, how to achieve these objectives will be discussed, leaving its full place to freedom to implement them. In short, planning is long-term democracy. In all circumstances, we are among those who wish to govern by need. Here is what we propose to the country: reinventing our future from the basic needs of people, who are currently unsatisfied, for our shame, in the fifth economic power in the world: to live in dignity, to eat hungry and healthy, to have a guaranteed right to water and sanitation, to emancipate themselves through free and secular school, to have access to a health system and to quality public services. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group. – Mr Sébastien Jumel also applauds]] Colleagues, as you will have understood, this technocratic text does not respond to ecological and social emergencies. You are destroying the Social Republic by refusing to pursue a policy of equality and solidarity. To destroy the Republic is to destroy the link that ensures cohesion between our citizens. "I have never separated the Republic from the ideas of social justice, without which it is only a word," said Jean Jaurès. We therefore call on you to vote on this motion of rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u64	In the explanations of vote on the motion to reject the motion, Mr Sébastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u65	As I will have the opportunity to say during the general discussion, the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left is committed to a certain conception of the State: a strong, strategist State, which develops, regulates, which achieves tariff equalization in order to guarantee equal access to public services, which finally establishes republican equality. Indeed, the Republic must be present everywhere and for all. As our experience of local elected officials attests, this concept of a strong State is not in our mind the negation of decentralization as originally developed. To that end, we believe that a number of principles must be guaranteed, including the financial autonomy of the communities, the avoidance of a reconcentration of powers and the balance within the couple that unites the mayor and the prefect, a couple that has proved to be particularly unbalanced in the recent period. I share the view expressed by Mathilde Panot: since it is part of a liberal vision, simplification often translates into a distance from the response of the public services, through their relocation and ultimately their dehumanisation, as illustrated by the question of the stations you want to reconnect to the regions. It results in a disincarnation of the public response. The debate we had on Thursday, 2 December, on the State's inability to provide equal access to health care and to cope with medical deserts is an example of this. Finally, we call for simplification, but rural mayors are faced with more barbaric and technocratic acronyms or procedures than others: PPRI – flood risk prevention plan –, PPRN – predictable natural risk prevention plan –, marine submersion risk prevention, fire risk coverage scheme, etc. Each time they have objectives and a legitimate dress, these are obstacles to the development of a living rural area and to the defence of medium-sized cities as centres of equipment in spatial planning. Therefore, the simplification is eagerly awaited by these mayors, but not a liberal simplification: a simplification that allows the harmonious development of the territory with and for the inhabitants, relying on the intelligence of the local elected representatives. We will therefore vote in favour of this motion of rejection for its overall criticism of the Government's policy, more than for its criticism of the text in particular.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u66	Mr Remy Rebeyrotte has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u67	After Mrs Panot's always measured and uncharacteristic remarks, sometimes far removed from the text we are considering, let me recall the important work that has already been done on this text to facilitate the action of elected representatives in the territories. I recall that this bill has been worked in depth by the Senate, and in particular by its rapporteurs, by our chamber, its rapporteurs, and the four committees on the merits. [[Mrs Maina Sage, rapporteur, and Mr Jean-Jacques Bridey applaud]] We are obviously in favour of continuing this work. That is why we will vote resolutely against this motion of rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u68	Mrs Laurence Vichnievski has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u69	I do not know whether we have ever considered in this House a text which is not the subject of a motion to reject it beforehand by our friends who have not spoken out. Systematism undermines the credibility of these rejection motions, but it is not the subject that should be of interest to us: we need to know whether this motion is justified or not. As has been said, we are ready. The many topics covered by this bill have been discussed almost since the beginning of the legislature, through consultations between the Government and parliamentarians with local elected representatives and our fellow citizens. They have been so much discussed that many of them have already been tested. I will not believe that local elected officials and our fellow citizens do not expect these provisions concerning road transport, small railway lines, housing, rural roads – this is the case in my constituency – or, as Didier Martin pointed out, health. Senators, such as our committees seized on the merits or for notice, have already debated this text. It is now urgent that we consider it in a public meeting, as long as it is expected by local elected representatives and, above all, by our fellow citizens, who will benefit from it. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem, LaREM and Agir ens groups]] The Dem Group will therefore vote against this motion of rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u70	Mr Hervé Saulignac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u71	We will spend about forty hours together, so we will have an opportunity to discuss the provisions contained in this text fairly broadly. The Socialist and Related Group will thus have the opportunity to comment on the shortcomings of this text and to express regrets about topics some of which have been mentioned by Mathilde Panot. When a motion of rejection is submitted to us, the question arises as to whether this text poses serious threats to our republican pact, to our institutional balance. Evidently, honesty requires us to respond in the negative. Secondly, is the weakness of a text sufficient to ask for its rejection and, consequently, the rejection of the few advances it contains? It is clear that, again, the answer should be negative. [[Ms. Josette Manin applauds]] The Socialist and Related Group will therefore not vote on this motion of rejection: we prefer to assert our demands throughout the forty hours of debate that await us.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u72	Mr Christophe Euzet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u73	I had taken a sheet and a pen to scrupulously note all the remarks contained in the motion of rejection, but unfortunately, as usual, I have only heard petitions of principles, broad guidelines completely cut off from the reality of the territories and communities to which we are supposed to come as part of the review of this legislation. It includes provisions on differentiation, which could be broken down, on decentralization in the areas of social housing, ecological transition or transport – where, again, disagreements could be raised – as well as on deconcentration and simplification. But, as always, we prefer to miss out on the debate. [[Maina Sage, rapporteur, applauds]] This is not the case for the Group of the European People's Party, which is quite ready to discuss this text which it sees with great benevolence, as you know. We will therefore vote against this motion of rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u74	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u75	Mrs Panot, you are asking us to allow a motion to reject this text beforehand. To do this, you first made several criticisms of government policy in different areas, some of which may be shared by oppositions. Secondly, you have formulated your vision of what the relationship between the state and local and regional authorities should be, which is exactly what we have to discuss. Your vision is an exacerbated jacobinism, since you propose renationalizations and planning in different areas. We must continue this debate, which is fundamental. We are in no way in agreement with this vision of the Republic and with the relations between the State and the territorial authorities. For us, decentralization must continue and be strengthened, as it is at the heart of the needs of our territories and their inhabitants. Decentralization is necessary. If criticisms are to be made on the substance of the text, they will be made in the context of the debate. You have paradoxically demonstrated that you must do the opposite of what you propose: you intend to debate decentralization, deconcentration and differentiation; I therefore call on you to do so, rather than to call for a rejection without debate of this text. That is why the UDI-I Group will vote against this motion of rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u76	Madam President, I ask for the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u77	We must not influence the vote!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u78	I will give you the floor after the vote, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u79	Don't worry, Mr. Lecoq, everything's gonna be fine!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u80	The Minister must speak after the vote; If not, we will make a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u81	Let's go on, there's no reason to get upset.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u82	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u83	I would like to reply to the president of the La France group. You're blaming me for a tote text; I will not return the compliment to you by noting that you have put forward a motion to reject everything, because I respect your work. Nevertheless, I invite you to go beyond the general considerations on billionaires to decide with us on the substance, on operational measures that have been the subject of two years of concerted action.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u84	Don't touch the grisbi!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u85	Madam Member, the diversity of the territories, which is intended to take account of differentiation, is a fact, and the overseas territories, which you have mentioned at length, illustrate this perfectly. They are treated differently from other French territories under Article 73 of the Constitution. The rapporteur, Maina Sage, knows how much our overseas citizens are committed to differentiation. But overseas is just one example among others. As far as the RSA is concerned, I have noted that you agree with our proposal to have the scheme financed by the State. After negotiation, we decided to experiment with this measure with the departmental council of the Seine-Saint-Denis, which is favourable to it. The draft law will allow for the recentralization of the system; I also do not understand the purpose of your divergence. With regard to social housing, the rapporteur, Mickaël Nogal, explained his interest very well and recalled the Government's action in this area, following the SRU Act.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u86	The Gayssot Law!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u87	Unless I'm wrong, it seems to me that this subject is also very important to you. We are also continuing the decentralization of the management of national roads started under the government of Jean-Pierre Raffarin. Our aim is to improve this management through greater proximity and not to engage in any privatisation. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] I could go on that way for a long time, but we will come back to the various subjects that you have discussed during the discussion of the amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u88	We are starting the general discussion. The speaking times indicated for each group are indicative since the Conference of Presidents has decided to apply the scheduled legislative time procedure. Mrs Bénédicte Taurine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u89	The 3DS bill now before the National Assembly deals with the differentiation, decentralization, deconcentration and simplification of local public action. It deals with a wide variety of topics and includes more than two hundred articles. It is examined in the context of a scheduled legislative time of forty hours and is at the limit of the scope of the ordinary law since Article 1 concerns differentiation, i.e. the organization and functioning of public authorities, and inherently alters our institutions. The bill should therefore have been of a constitutional level. Like its title I, the announcement, you introduce differentiation into the general code of local and regional authorities. The text will allow communities of the same category, such as departments, to be given different powers, which will deprive our fellow citizens of a clear view of the responsibilities of elected officials. This new assertion of decentralization no longer guarantees the homogeneity of the application of the law in the national territory. Under this bill, the Government questions the indivisibility of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u90	Why do they always see everything in black and white? That's good, too, color!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u91	In its evaluation of France's national reform programme and stability programme 2013, the European Commission criticized the "multiple administrative levels at local level that create problems of duplication, coordination and confusion of roles". Pierre Steinmetz, a former member of the Constitutional Council, noted that our time was marked by a clear democratic deficit and that citizens needed clarity in the powers of local and regional authorities. According to him, "the French citizen must understand what is happening and who is doing it". I share that view. Now, with this last great text of the legislature, you end up losing the citizens and you keep them away from political life. You will make the exercise of their powers more opaque by local elected officials, while the territorial millennium is already complex for everyone. The important thing would be to allow our fellow citizens to understand the political organization of our country, but you are doing the opposite. A D shines cruelly by his absence: that of democracy – Mathilde Panot pointed out earlier. You do not trust the people when the main challenge is to inform the citizens and involve them in public life, in particular in the fight against abstention. Nearly two out of three voters did not vote in the regional elections last June and, unfortunately, no text of this quinquennium will have dealt with this problem. On the contrary, the President of the Republic and the Government, in their way of exercising power and crushing Parliament, did not respect the vote of citizens, which does not encourage the French to move in the ballot box. Among other findings, the text provides for the transfer to the regions of the management of low-traffic train lines, although their finances are already insufficient and the network is affected by decades of underinvestment. The preservation of these essential lines for the daily lives of the French is no longer guaranteed. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group. – Mr. Jean-Paul Lecoq also applauds]] Another major concern in the text is the extension of the SRU law, or rather the Gayssot law, which imposes social housing quotas on municipalities. The gap between supply and demand is abyssal since only 875,000 dwellings were registered in 2020, compared to 1.7 million households waiting for social housing. With regard to the application of this law, the Court of Auditors noted in its February 2021 report that sanctions are not applied very much when municipalities are broken down. We were therefore waiting for strong measures and tougher sanctions against out-of-law communes, so that the quotas would finally be respected, but, as the text stands, it will always be possible to circumvent them. The majority repeats to those who wish to hear it that its objective is social mix. However, you always allow the same people, especially the communes that create rich ghettos, to clear their responsibilities.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u92	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u93	Colleagues,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u94	And nevertheless comrades!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u95	...Madame the minister, after the Senate, today we are considering the bill on differentiation, decentralization, deconcentration and various measures to simplify local public action, with a view to its adoption in January 2022. By your very admission, Madam Minister, this is a very technical text, which is intended to be "concrete, useful and ground-based". I agree with you that this text is, at the end of the day, very technical and without any structuring content. Your presentation is also a polite way of telling Parliament and the elected representatives that you have given up drawing lessons from what was at the heart of the great debate launched in Grand Bourgtheroulde, at Mr Bruno Questel's, as a semblance of response to the anger of the yellow roundabouts. What do the local elected representatives and the forgotten and humiliated populations of the Republic tell us, whether they live in rural areas, in the middle cities or in the pockets of exclusion of the popular neighbourhoods of the major cities? They simply say that their lives are worth as much as others, that their children are no less intelligent than others, that their health is no less important than that of the elites and that they have the same fundamental rights – the rights to transport, to education, to training, to safety and to a dignified and quiet life – than others. You acknowledged this in your opening remarks, Madam Minister: it is no longer a question for you, on the legitimate pretext that we should not destabilize our elected representatives again through a territorial big bang, to correct the deep movement of moving territories accelerated by the MAPTAM and OUR laws. We regret it. With the majority of our fellow citizens and elected representatives – that's why I referred to Grand Bourgtheroule – we continue to say stop the metropolization and regionalization of the responses, which each day move a little more away from our territories of life the great services of the State. We could, together with Jean-Paul Lecoq, explain to you what happens when we locate the State services in Caen, the Rectorate of Rouen and the Regional Directorate of Cultural Affairs (DRAC) in particular. This move is rife by public, parapublic and private bodies – USSRAF, primary health insurance fund (CPAM), family allowance fund (CAF), Enedis, SNCF, La Poste, EDF – which are also organized in super-regions, far from the heart and far from the eyes. As soon as these great public services are far from the heart and far from the eyes, the proximity, the reactivity, the humanity of the response and, as the mayors often tell us, the knowledge of the concrete realities of the field is damaged. A mayor told me the other day that he felt, when he filed a building permit, that he was being searched for his commune on Google Maps to find out where it was located. While he was born there and grew up there, he was told about the natural risks of his commune, the problems encountered there and the solutions that must be applied. At the same time, throughout the territory, you have continued to encourage the irrefragable liberal belief that everything that leads to reducing public spending is good for the French. The mastodon intercommunalities and the fusions of communes that erase the identity of the villages are gradually depriving the communes of their concrete capacity to be useful to the inhabitants and to be the incarnation of the Republic everywhere and for all.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u96	We didn't do it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u97	It is not you, I agree with you, Madam Minister, but your government has not stopped this development and has not, at any time, attempted to oppose it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u98	You don't reverse logic!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u99	Yes, it is!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u100	Indeed, you do not reverse logic.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u101	At the request of the elected officials!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u102	I wasn't there, but I was told:...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u103	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u104	... an academic director of the National Education Services (DASEN) recently declared to the Association of Rural Mayors of the Seine-Maritime that there were too many communes and too many schools. Clearly, the deep movement of the territories is not being called into question by the Government! In committee, you told me that the time for the big move was over, Madam Minister, but why, when the school card is being drawn up in my department – according to a different timetable than in other years since we are asked to be ready at the end of January – are the inspectors of national education (ENI) sent by DASEN to the small mayors? In fact, there are not small mayors, in my opinion, but only mayors.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u105	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u106	However, the mayors of the small communes are often considered small mayors by the state services. Although any school closure must now be discussed by the municipal council, State officials soon threatened mayors who refused to close their commune's school to abolish their DETR or deprive them of subsidies and support for their communal projects.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u107	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u108	Madam Minister, my position is, I believe, that of the Members of the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left: I am in favour of a strong and strategist State, which plans intelligently, regulates, develops and takes care of. We support a State that guarantees republican equality and the right to health, education, transportation and a dignified and secure life for all. That is the meaning of the proposals that we have made throughout the legislature, especially last Thursday, during our parliamentary niche, to fight against medical deserts. This is the meaning of the proposals for republican equality that we defended during our tour of France of hospitals and EHPADs. If the territories are not doing well today, it is because of the pre-eminence of the accounting logic on the health planning of the country. Indeed, in terms of governance, SRAs behave much more often as guarantors of budgetary orthodoxy than as advocates of regional health planning. On this issue, the bill remains on the brink of the ford and will not allow the health of the dogma to be removed from the accounting rules. I know that some ministers, as well as the previous Prime Minister's entourage, have referred to the possibility of revisiting the very existence of the SRAs. Now we're talking about integrating a few elected officials into their governance: I'm not sure that would change much. This is also the meaning of our proposals to defend SNCF's life lines, with stations that should not be dehumanized. However, given that the stations are closed and the state has stopped investing, the management of the small life lines will be transferred to the regions. There are many near me: the Abbeville - Le Tréport line, the Abancourt - Le Tréport line, as well as the Dieppe-Rouen line, which deserves to be electrified. Perhaps the regions will be more reactive and more subject to pressure from the elected representatives and the inhabitants to maintain them,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u109	We need controllers!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u110	... but I note that in Normandy, the first decision of the regional president was, for our safety, for our tranquillity and to ensure the mobility of the elderly, to remove the presence of the controllers on the trains! Equalization, tariff equality, equal quality of service wherever you live, and the possibility of taking the train at perched rates, whether you live in a small town or in a large one: this is the commitment we want for a national public rail service. However, the transfer of powers referred to here does not offer such guarantees. What will become of the 4000 kilometres of line currently threatened with closure? What will become of the promise of harmonious land-use planning? What will become of the promise to combat climate change without the direct and massive support of the state to, precisely, develop the territory? This is the meaning, finally, of our struggles for a school capable of repairing the social elevator of the Republic, with personnel of a human dimension preserved. I had the opportunity to say what we think about the way school maps are being developed, not only in my department – I would not like to make a fixation on the Seine-Maritime, where relations with the state services are good – but everywhere in France, because of the national instructions that are given. Unlike a weakening of the state, we are for public services everywhere and for all. And even if I note – positively – the Government's willingness to correct the erasure of the public response of proximity, particularly through France Services houses, which mayors and intercommunalities have committed themselves to create – how can I blame them? – this will only be a bandage intended to heal the wounds of the organized hindrance of public services in our respective territories – I mentioned the closure of the CPAM branches – but we can also think of the Mutuality of Agricultural Social Affairs (MSA) – or post offices. It is now up to the mayors to set up France Services houses and, at the same time, to pay for them, because it is clearly a transfer of expenses from the national taxpayer to the local taxpayer, which, obviously, will not always be compensated. The health crisis revealed how effective and useful local authorities, not only in the municipalities but also in the departments and regions, have been in organizing vaccination as close as possible to the local population or in distributing masks at the time they were missing. In this context, what do you answer to the AMF – Association des mayores de France et des présidents d'intercommunalité – which estimates, if the figures available to me are good, the overall cost of managing the crisis for local authorities at EUR 5.1 billion and the compensation by the state at only EUR 440 million? In another register, you say you want to simplify, which becomes urgent so much the excess of standards turns the strong state into an authoritarian state. This is proof of the fate reserved for rural or middle-city mayors, who want to defend their commune and develop it by building housing according to the needs of the population or new populations. What do we say to these elected officials? As you know, minister, they are answered, among other acronyms: PPRN, PPRI, risk of marine submersion, departmental plan for analysis and coverage of fire risks, or ZPPAUP – zone of protection of architectural, urban and landscape heritage. Of course, these documents address legitimate concerns.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u111	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u112	Still!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u113	It is, of course, legitimate to combat marine submersions, natural hazards or technological risks. But what means do mayors have to do this? Does the State accompany them, or does it demand, abruptly, the observance of standards, preventing any development? As I often say, when there is no longer development, we are not in development but in sustainable underdevelopment. Some municipalities are thus prevented from building two or three houses a year in the name of the "climate and resilience" law and the provisions it contains for the artificialisation of the soil. This law will make SRADDET – regional schemes for the development, sustainable development and equality of territories – the equivalent of what European law is in our hierarchy of norms, i.e. a higher standard than PLU – local planning plans – or urban planning regulations and POS – land use plans. All construction will be prohibited in rural areas. And to farmers who will apply for a permit to build a simple barn, they will say that the extension is not in line with the local planning plan; Unfortunately, that is the reality we are facing. The standards that fly in flight and that take precedence over the real and the possible, the technocracy that replaces intelligence, the reinforced concrete umbrella instead of the sense of reality and responsibility: here is how the 100 mayors of my constituency described me a few days ago, in Landes-Veilles-et-Neuves, to shout not their despair, but their mobilization for a living rurality. I'm talking about it because this subject shows how much rurality is sometimes under the yoke of technocracy – I will develop this example, before concluding quickly. Will a municipality of less than 150 inhabitants with less than 2000 euros of self-financing capacity be able to invest 190000 euros in order to acquire a fire bag, during a single term and at the cost of abandoning any investment in schools, crèches and services to the population? That is the reality we are facing. A real law that would restore oxygen to local authorities, municipalities and local democracy would put an end to these ubiquitous excesses; That's not the case here. Otherwise, let us guarantee, Madam Minister, that the government's report on fire defence, which the Senate has obtained by way of an amendment, will allow us to loosen the vice in Seine-Maritime as elsewhere – that is what I hope. On all these subjects, I said in committee, the prefect-mother couple appears as an old-fashioned couple, as we no longer want, a couple in which the first decides everything, alone, with the authority and strength of the state, engaging everyone, while the mayors act with responsibility and know what is good for their commune. In the coming debate, we will make proposals to reaffirm our commitment to the general clause of competence of the communes – that is obvious – but also of the departments. In this regard, while I am in favour of the generalization of the experiment carried out by the elected representatives of Seine-Saint-Denis with regard to the RSA, which weighed so much on the budget of the department that it stifled it,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u114	Tell Mrs. Panot!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u115	...I fear, however, that tomorrow, if the departments no longer have the management of this system, see their powers transferred to the metropolises, are emptied of their substance, the common-department couple, which is a pillar of the Republic of proximity, is not weakened and erased, which we do not want. We will also ensure that the Gayssot law – which is called "SRU", but it was a communist minister who defended it –...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u116	It wasn't a communist majority!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u117	... be preserved. I take positive note of your willingness to restore the text to that effect, after it has been amended by the Senate: we will be attentive on this point. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] To sum up, we will make pragmatic proposals – I hope that some will bear your conviction – in order to reaffirm our commitment to a caring State, with its decentralized territorial organization. This is what constitutes – I believe we will join on this point – the originality of France, one and indivisible, proud of its diversity in overseas and Corsica – even if this specificity could have been better recognized in the bill – and proud of its ability to take care of the territory as a whole. This is the state of mind in which the Communist Group is approaching the examination of this technical text, but, finally, it is very political.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u118	Mr Remy Rebeyrotte has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u119	I would like to take this opportunity to make a few reminders of the text we are considering. First, intercommunality is not the enemy of the communes, on the contrary, and it will be less and less so: that is why we have re-established the balance between these two levels of community in commission. It should be recalled that in 1992, in the face of the increase in the powers which the municipalities could no longer assume alone and which demanded stability – I am thinking of economic development or the collection and treatment of household waste – the choice of maintaining the communal proximity was made, in parallel with the development of stable management tools through the public institutions of intercommunal cooperation (EPCI). So fortunately we have escaped authoritarian mergers of municipalities, as happened in other countries. Of course, the communes themselves can take initiatives – I am thinking here of the new communes – but, in our country, we start from the communal will – it is important to remember that. Inter-communities are more relevant than ever to the issues of ecological transition and climate resilience. We see the value of giving them expertise such as GEMAPI – aquatic management and flood prevention – drinking water and sanitation, mobility, organisation of habitat or the preservation of natural spaces. In the same vein, the SRU law, the aim of which is to reaffirm and prolong the effects, was not done to annoy the communes, but to combat the ghettoisation and urban partitioning of the populations and to maintain – probably insufficiently – a mix of the public and the routes in the habitat. The purpose of the bill is to reaffirm the objectives of mix and diversity: above all, it is a matter of keeping the course. On the other hand, should we recall the necessary unity of the State, at the national level, of course, but also and perhaps especially in the territories? More than ever, local elected officials and actors need it. There is nothing more destabilizing than having different opinions on the same file from several branches or agencies belonging to the State. It is as if, in parallel with the prefect of department or region, there was a prefect of environment or health, to take only two examples of the competence of the state – any resemblance to things lived on the ground would obviously be mere coincidence. No, the external agencies and services of the State are not autonomous. They must act in a very close relationship with the prefects, who represent the Government as a whole, and in an absolutely indispensable relationship of trust. To say this is not to call into question the existence of external agencies or services, but, in a logic of deconcentration, to reaffirm that the unity of the State is always necessary and even imperative in the face of major ecological or health crises. We will no doubt be criticized for giving the departments a fair share in this new phase of decentralization – although we are fortunately not returning to a general competence clause. To this, I will reply that, since the 2016 law, the size of certain regions has strengthened the place of the department as well as the interest of its size and proximity. In addition, the department has since its inception been a management institution with services and staff, making it a stable level and capable of welcoming new skills or strengthening those already available to it. The text takes these realities into account. Finally, on differentiation, we are extending the local regulatory power as well as the possibilities for experimentation, that is, we are going to do as much as possible of what can be done without constitutional change. Concerning Marseille, we translate into the text the objectives set by the President of the Republic in relation to local actors to adapt the institutions and the methods of intervention to the challenges of safeguard and those of the new project of the Phocéan city. Marseille and the metropolis of Aix-Marseille-Provence are worth it as they play a major role in our national concert. What would we be without the Marseillais and the Marseillaise? [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group. – Mr Vincent Bru also applauds]] These are some elements that I wanted to recall as we approach this last text of the legislature to make it easier for elected officials and local actors in our territories once again, and to enable them to take the initiative more easily at a time when their commitment to the protection of our people and the revival of our country is more crucial than ever.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u120	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u121	We are here for almost fifteen days of discussion, in a public session, on this text, which concerns decentralization, deconcentration, differentiation and simplification. The Government has referred to this bill for several months or even years as a great meeting for local and regional authorities. This meeting, which has been missed so many times since the beginning of the quinquennium, must illustrate how this power, this government and this President of the Republic have understood France of the territories and the diversity of our nation. Your intention is commendable, its necessary and urgent implementation, but this text unfortunately misses its target. We are hardly surprised by this failure, both the test of the "engagement and proximity" law in 2019, had already failed its objective of providing answers to the local bloc. How did we get there? First of all, through the installation in 2017 of a power that considered it to be everything, that it needed no one and that its overwhelming majority, made up of members of civil society who knew life, dispensed it from relying on intermediate bodies; There was no longer a need for federations, associations, elected representatives or local authorities,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u122	Jumel, get out of this body!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u123	... all these intermediate levels which make the democracy of everyday life and proximity. Then, the conception of a power concentrated in the hands of an omniscient president came up against the reality of the territories. The yellow vests recalled that one could not decide alone against all, against everyone's opinion, and that one had to build together to make nation. A great debate ensued: it is surprising that a challenge arising from a few strong measures against which the French have mobilized have led to proposals for institutional restructuring. In a symptomatic way, some powers always advance institutional responses to simple problems raised by the French. The law "engagement and proximity" came opportunely on the eve of the municipal elections because, supposed to caress the mayors in the direction of the hair and give them visibility, its adoption was welcome for a Macronie in search of candidates. The signal was clear: this law was the text of the mayors, but the mayors widely said what they thought; It therefore missed its target and postponed the provisions on departments and regions. Here we are, here is the bill on departments and regions! But the paradigm remains the same: the law OUR is bad and its "irritants", which were spoken of at the time of the text "engagement and proximity", remain the target. Everyone agrees, including you, Mr. Rapporteur,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u124	I'll confirm it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u125	...as you wrote in a report that we have committed together: Our Law is the worst law of territorial organization since 1982.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u126	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u127	Yet, you are presenting us with a text that still does not affect the law OUR – or that modifies a half-circle of it! You say, "We know that the problem is the law OUR, but we will not change it": that is incomprehensible! Decentralization, deconcentration, differentiation and simplification, you say. On decentralization, you made the point in committee, Madam Minister, that if we look for it, we would find some – these are your terms. We have therefore looked carefully and have not found many, with the exception of some infrastructure management transfers – I am thinking in particular of roads. There is therefore no real decentralization movement. As for deconcentration, we remain in the lukewarm water. You say you want to restore the role of the prefect of department and develop the mayor-prefect couple: we take you to the word but you refuse that the prefect, who knows the territory and the elected ones, exercises a local guardianship over all the bodies within its jurisdiction as the departmental services of OFB; You also dare not recognize the principle that the prefect represents the government in the department for all acts. Again, for deconcentration, you remain half-measured. As for differentiation, we question your approach, which is only an administrative response to a political problem. The latter is the abolition of the general jurisdiction clause of the NOTRE Act, the inspiration of which was to prevent at all costs the elected representatives from grasping what is of interest to them and from acting only after authorization. The removal of this clause is contrary to the very principle of decentralization, which allows local elected representatives to provide detailed answers to questions which sometimes arise only within the competence of a single territorial authority. To address this problem, you can imagine a new administrative concept, that of differentiation. The logic of this concept is that, rather than having the right to do what they want when they need it, local elected officials will be able to ask the state for permission to act. The elected representatives will have the right to raise their hands to seek permission to resolve a question that arises only in their community. You refuse to include in the law the principle that elected officials may intervene in an area that affects them. Finally, you are taking some welcome simplification measures, as is customary in the late quinquennium broom texts. In general, there is not much consistency in these simplification and adaptation measures, which drag into drawers and benefit from a legislative vehicle. For example, provisions on national stables, housing, health, culture, cross-border cooperation and funeral law are at the end of the text: these simplification measures are welcome, but it is a broom text at the end of the mandate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u128	Let's rehabilitate the broom!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u129	The Senate wanted to help you with this simplification work, but you deleted sixty articles introduced by the upper chamber. You have also amended some 20 articles which he had worked on in substance, thus sweeping away all parliamentary work.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u130	That's not true! You weren't even here!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u131	That is a shame, and it illustrates the operation of the parliamentary shuttle for four and a half years. In the end, you offer us a vision of subsidiarity that is close to the one that has guided you since the beginning of the quinquennium. We talked at length about Tocqueville when we examined the text 'engagement and proximity', which has been mentioned a little less in committee about this text, but your view of subsidiarity remains that of a downward movement: it is the central power that allows local and regional authorities to act from time to time, whereas subsidiarity is rather an ascending movement – this is the spirit of relations with the European Union. I dream of a France which finally accepts the ascending dimension of subsidiarity and which, taking the communities in an order of increasing size, leads one to entrust to the next one a responsibility which it knows is too small to exercise; Instead, you unfortunately remain in a logic where you execute at the bottom what has been decided at the top. Executors, although sometimes endowed with beautiful budgets, this is your conception of local elected officials!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u132	It's hazy!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u133	The big difference with the law "engagement and proximity" is that this text comes after the departmental and regional elections, not before them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u134	Sir is an observer!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u135	As your hope of having elected representatives in these communities is already disappointed, why give them more responsibility and the means to carry out the mandate that the French have given them? That's your reasoning! The Republican Group will be mobilised to defend the territorial communities we know to manage a large majority of them. We are more committed than ever to the free ability of local elected officials to act.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u136	No applause on the benches of the group The Republicans!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u137	Mr. Patrick Loiseau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u138	The territories are the heart of our Republic. They drive a dynamic, forge the identity of our country and are our pride throughout the world. France that radiates, France that inspires, France that attracts, is that of the territories! Local elected representatives are the pillars of this territorial network that is essential to the smooth functioning of our democracy. Moreover, the mayor remains, during the investigations, the preferred choice of the French. However, this commitment to local life is becoming increasingly difficult because elected officials are faced with administrative complexities that slow down, discourage and sometimes prevent common sense actions from coming to an end, when they do not create a barrier wall to innovative initiatives that will bring about the future. Elected from the nation, but chosen by one territory, we know how inseparable the two are. The nation without the territories would have no raison d'être and the territories need the support of the state to fully flourish with respect for their diversity. I want to say this at the outset, Madam Minister, we are grateful to you, together with all my colleagues in the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats, for the colossal work you have been doing for several years: you have travelled through the territory to meet with the elected representatives to listen to them and to put in the law coherent solutions to their daily difficulties. Colleagues, no part of the national territory should remain on the side of the road: this is the right conclusion that the Government has drawn from these meetings. We must combat regional inequalities and empower everyone to grow. That's why our majority began work in 2017 to accompany the territories...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u139	To destroy them!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u140	... by trusting them and giving them more room to manoeuvre in order to establish a better environment for daily life and to engage in a new impetus that takes into account the richness of territorial specificities. There was the law "engagement and proximity", the organic law on the simplification of local experiments, the creation of the European community of Alsace and, more recently, the reform of the formation of elected representatives. These various texts followed the same line of action: simplifying public action, removing obstacles and blockages and facilitating the lives of mayors and elected officials. The bill on differentiation, decentralization, deconcentration and various measures to simplify local public action, known as 3DS, has completed this work. If it does not upset the framework of decentralisation, thus respecting the commitment made at the beginning of the mandate not to change anything in depth in order finally to allow the elected representatives time to absorb the previous reforms, which are too numerous and often very poorly prepared, the text intends to make public action in the territories more fluid and effective. Repeated reforms since 2010 have not met the challenges; That is why the bill must truly reflect the commitment of the President of the Republic, and of our majority, to a new ambition for our territories. In the Law Commission, we reinstated some of the provisions of the original bill while retaining some of the Senate's additions. Consistency has been our thread: it is not a question of making this text a piece of legislation without real legibility, but an instrument of simplification and encouragement for local elected representatives. During the parliamentary shuttle, this work of coherence was carried out by the rapporteurs, whose commitment I would like to stress. Let me pay particular tribute to my colleague Élodie Jacquier-Laforge, rapporteur on the titles on deconcentration and measures to simplify public action. Consistency and rationality have been the key words of our group's proposed contributions to this bill. We have chosen, rather than going in every direction, to focus on a few priority areas by proposing common-sense measures for real efficiency on the ground. The first is the governance of public agencies that act directly in the territories: we believe it is necessary to make it more effective and readable. Our colleagues Philippe Vigier and Christophe Jerretie have thus tabled several amendments, co-signed by the whole group. They aim to place five territorial agencies of the state – the National Habitat Agency (ANAH), CEREMA, etc. – under the supervision of the prefect of the region, and to create departmental delegations for each of them. We also have another proposal: to merge these different territorial agencies of the State into a single agency. Simplicity and clarity: this is the whole issue of the effectiveness of public action that we want to see in our territories. Another issue we are concerned about is the RSAs, which we have seen for almost two years, how crucial action in the territories could be. Thus, we will propose to place the Director General of the Regional Health Agency under the functional authority of the Regional Prefect. The aim is to draw lessons from the health crisis, which has revealed some shortcomings or even dysfunctions, in the sharing of information on the conduct of health policy in the field by the Directorates-General of the RHAs. In addition, our group proposes to define in the law the tasks of the departmental delegation of the ARS; They are not so far and vary from one SRA to another. In that regard, he reiterated a recommendation of the Ségur de la santé, which called for this departmental delegation to be the preferred interlocutor for local elected officials. In the area of health, our colleague Nicolas Turquois has also tabled an amendment to allow the mayors of the municipalities hosting a dismemberment of a public health institution to participate in meetings of the supervisory board of the supporting institution with an advisory voice. Our second area of work was urban planning, including housing. Given the growing need to increase the share of available social housing and the limitations of the current system introduced by the SRU Act, we support the provisions of the bill to sustain and adapt the SRU Act. Our group believes that social mix must be at the heart of the changes that will be made, and that the priority is access to housing for the poorest households and the middle classes. One of our amendments, tabled by François Pupponi, proposes an anti-ghettoisation measure: it aims to penalise all reservators, whatever they may be, who do not comply with their allocation obligations and deprive them of their quota. For greater coherence between the territories, we also wish, by an amendment by our colleague Christophe Jerretie, to generalise the social mix contract, which will be signed between the mayor, the EPCI and the representative of the State, to all municipalities in social housing in order to make it the framework for the commitment of means in force. By way of an amendment by our colleague Florence Lasserre, we also call for housing under a real solidarity lease to be included in social housing as part of the SRU inventory. Finally, we want to give the territories the means to adapt to the new laws. This is why an amendment by our President Patrick Mignola proposes to shift the deadline for bringing urban planning documents into line with the objective of zero net artificialization set by the "climate and resilience" law by six months. There is also the issue of cross-border cooperation. At the initiative of our colleague Sylvain Waserman, several amendments by the majority were adopted in committee; they will be the subject of legal clarification, in particular with regard to cross-border learning, during the public discussion. The ecological transition is also an issue on which we are making proposals, in particular through an amendment by our colleague Aude Luquet. We believe in the importance of effectively strengthening the role of communities in these areas, as they are best able to respond to very concrete needs and issues from the ground. Finally, the Group of the Party of European Socialists supports several amendments by our colleagues in the overseas countries Justine Benin and Max Mathiasin aimed at better adapting the health system to the particularities of the ultramarine territories, in particular by involving the overseas communities more closely in the decision-making of the administration. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem and LaREM groups]] The Group of the European Democratic Movement (MODEM) and the Group of the European People's Party (Allied Democrats) would like to see our Assembly move constructively towards strengthening the cohesion of the territories, towards greater fluidity in the relationship between state services and local authorities and towards greater simplicity in the daily lives of local elected representatives. This text, designed for local elected officials, must give them the practical means to meet operational needs. It is in this sense that our group has worked in committee, and that is how we will continue our work in open session.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u141	Mr Hervé Saulignac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u142	The executor of our law!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u143	The President of the Republic committed himself to this: at the end of the great national debate, he announced on 25 April 2019 a "new act of our Republic" and promised, I quote, "a new democracy, a new organization and a new administration". The 3D law was thus placed in orbit. However, the yellow vests, the tour de France of the local elected representatives and the mobilization of the associations of elected representatives will not have been enough to convince the President to move from speech to action since, each one will agree, this text – of which I do not deny the progress made – does not in any way constitute a profound change in the organisation of the State. An argument is found to justify the limited scope of the bill. We are told that local elected officials aspire to a break; they do not want a great reform; they need to digest the NOTRE law, the MAPTAM law, the enlarged regions and the consolidated EPCIs. In a way, it is urgent not to push anything; That's unfortunate. The elected representatives are one thing, but the French are another: if we have to hear the elected representatives, we must also hear those French who aspire to understand who does what, who decides what, those French who will no longer vote, simply because public action no longer makes sense to them and that we cannot adhere by voting to a system that is sometimes too complex to be intelligible. The truth is that decentralization, like deconcentration, is no longer on the agenda, for a matter of political principle. We are wary of intermediate bodies, of the involvement of citizens in public life, of unruly local elected officials and of everything that could divide power. It is true that, in order to properly appreciate the virtues of decentralization, it is better to have been mayor or president of an intercommunal or large community. But, since 2017, we can govern a country without having presided over the town council of a village. It is perhaps more difficult to conceive of strengthening local democracy when it is feared that it will give birth to new feudal challenges.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u144	Really?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u145	The Socialist and related group believes almost the opposite; We are convinced that what is clearly a matter of local democracy must go to the local area. This democracy of proximity is precious; It is through it that national unity holds. It has had the opportunity to prove this vividly at the height of the health and social crisis that we have been through and are still going through. To guarantee national unity, of course, a strong and respected State must exercise its prerogatives, which guarantee respect for the great principles of freedom, secularism, neutrality, national policies of solidarity and many others. But we believe that it is the balance between this power that exercises regal prerogatives and the one that brings local democracy to life that is the condition of national unity.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u146	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u147	It is entirely permissible to be a decentralizing Jacobin, that is to say, in favour of a strong State alongside solidly armed communities to regulate daily life. It's not about dismantling the state. It is a question of giving more freedom and prerogatives to a recognized and rarely contested local power, because often efficient. Decentralization is the cement that the nation needs more than ever to consolidate its threatened unity. This enabled our democracy to find a new breath after the 1958 Constitution increased the concentration of power.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u148	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u149	Where are we today? It must be noted that democracy is running out: mayors are under the weight of constraints of all kinds; the departments are being stripped of their skills and ability to act, a bit like the marguerite is being wiped out; the regions are a new form of territorial centralism and are struggling to find thanks to the eyes of our fellow citizens. Decentralization has been a step in the right direction; It evolves in small touches, along the water, in a form of improvisation. So yes, clarify, simplify, establish who does what is an absolute necessity. Beyond this need, let me think more prosaically that the local elected representatives express two very simple demands: freedom and money. Decentralisation does not create money. If the cake retains the same size, then the question is who cuts the shares. However, the state has taken over the knife, and the text avoids the major challenge of fiscal leverage and financial resources. As far as freedom is concerned, it must be admitted that this text grants too little. And yet, he says, things, this text! Let's move on to the title of the bill, which falls under the legislative packaging, if you allow me the expression, that is, the art of wrapping or trimming the container to make a little forget about the content. This text says so much that everyone will find something to do with it – and that is probably the essential thing for the Government. At the head of the gondola is the "territorial differentiation" which enshrines a principle of derogation from the rules established in the field of competences. The principle of differentiation has raised many hopes. While the Senate has seized this opportunity to try to unravel entire sections of intercommunality, the current drafting, which has re-examined the Senate's excesses, leaves little prospect of concrete translations. However, the clarification of ecological transition and biodiversity skills and some progress in the area of health security will be welcomed, while noting that while communities are welcome to provide funding for medical equipment projects, they are still so little in health governance. As for parliamentarians, I understand that they are simply undesirable in the oversight boards of public health institutions. I regret a measure that will further strengthen the trial of elected officials too often considered to be above ground. We will also welcome the sharing of data between administrations for the benefit of the user and, above all, of his rights, as well as the progress made in cross-border cooperation. We would also like to welcome the lowering of the thresholds that allow voters to call for consultation, while regretting that this approach is reduced to one signature per citizen per year, as if too much intrusion of citizens into public life was to be feared. We can only welcome the adoption in committee of a number of amendments that have made it possible to restore the balance of the SRU law that the Senate has damaged. On this issue of housing, we welcome the proposed adaptations, as well as, with regard to urban planning, the provisions that facilitate the classification of buildings threatening to ruin property without master for their integration into the public domain. It would have been appreciated if progress had been made in school medicine, since the departments were often exemplary in terms of prevention or nutrition. We would have liked more room for these same departments in the pilotage of the EHPADs, whose financial difficulties are often discovered too late. We would have liked to have laid the foundations for a process that strengthens inter-communal democracy or for the adoption of a framework for testing basic income. So there are provisions in this text that we will support – I have just mentioned a number – and others that are debating – I am thinking of the recentralisation of the RSA or the recurring question of the transfer of competence for water and sanitation – and finally some that surprise us. Recognize, for example, that for a simplification bill, transferring the management of national roads to the regions is quite surprising. It is also a remarkable contradiction with the argument put forward by the Government in an amendment concerning the metropolis Aix-Marseille: you rightly state that local authorities must be given back to local authorities, as they will be more effectively implemented. But then why want to entrust roads to regions, which embody anything but proximity?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u150	These are the national roads!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u151	The excellent departments in the road sector: they have engineering and technical teams, and they have already integrated part of the national road network in 2004. The obvious simplification would have been to recognize departments as the only communities benefiting from this transfer and to muscle regions into other areas of expertise, such as learning or employment. In this respect, the regions will have to settle for a coordination body with Pôle Emploi, a body which will be limited to issuing simple recommendations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u152	No, no!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u153	In the field of health, while it is commendable to want to mobilize cross-financing, how can we not fear that community subsidies will be the subject of endless discussions with an impecunious state? It is first and foremost up to the State to invest in health facilities; the participation of a community must never be a condition for the realization of a project. We will also regret that this text does not take into account the conflicts arising from the development of wind energy, sometimes anarchic, leaving little room for local people and in front of whom mayors are often tetanized. One day it will be necessary to integrate the unequal geographical distribution of projects which concentrate nuisances and trigger mobilisations that no regulatory provision can regulate. Wind energy will not progress by forced march and allowing developers to behave sometimes as colonists in conquered terrain will not help the development of renewable energies. Finally, how can we not question the possibility for communities to install new automatic radars at the roadside? What motivates such a bad decision? Would the state not be able to identify the accident-causing sectors? Would it be so ruined that he should delegate these missions to the communes or departments? Frankly, decentralization was expected elsewhere than in this area. Finally, you will allow me, minister, to point out the silences of this bill, which is so dense. The provisions on sport and culture are reduced to the congruous portion, apart from section 42, which allows communities to make grants for the creation of small cinemas. Even more serious, the 3DS law lacks an additional "D" for "democratisation". How could you ignore even modest provisions that could have been responses to the massive abstention of the last local elections? Would you have renounced the involvement of citizens in democracy? It is on this note that this legislature will conclude with regard to communities and their relations with the central or deconcentrated State. We will support, without much enthusiasm, as you have understood, many of the provisions that are welcome technical adjustments. We will do so not without regret at the persistence of a fiscal and budgetary centralisation policy that reduces resources and regulates expenditure. [[Applause on the SOC benches]] The questions raised during the yellow vest crisis about citizen participation, the morale of many local elected officials, the ill democracy and the distrust that divides citizens and their representatives: none of these major challenges can be answered in this text. That is something to open up for debate in view of the forthcoming deadlines. Let us, however, beware that the great ambitions that both will not fail to display will not remain five more years at the stage of unfulfilled promise.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u154	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u155	The meeting was resumed. Mr Christophe Euzet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u156	We have before us a text as imposing as it is important, which attests to the fact, if necessary, that we are working until the last minutes of the legislature, at the expense of local authorities, in complete independence from local elections, of whatever kind. At the bedside of local communities, we have been there throughout the legislature. As early as 2017, the President of the Republic called for a new territorial situation, insisting on the need for a renewed partnership with the State, more flexible and more effective. The current situation has reinforced this requirement. I am thinking of the crisis of the yellow vests, which began in November 2018, to which I do not accord at all the same historical value as that given to it by other colleagues since it came to punish harshly twenty to twenty-five years of immobilization of all those who had already suffered the verdict of the ballot box. Then there was a second test: the continuing covid pandemic, which some politicians seem to have completely lost sight of in their projections for 2022. All of this has highlighted a strong need for local and regional authorities. This bill, the minister, is not a rootless text. It is not a simple reaction to events but is integrated into a vast legislative process, as you have rightly recalled, and in a comprehensive reflection on territorial public policies that span four and a half years: the law "engagement and proximity", the law on the simplification of local experiments, the law on the creation of a National Agency for the Cohesion of Territories, the law on the competences of the European Community of Alsace, the law on the reform of the formation of local elected representatives. It is, as we can see, the culmination of a normative package aimed at improving the lives of local and regional authorities after years of ungrateful treatment. Presented to the Council of Ministers on May 12, 2021, the bill was considerably enriched by the Senate, which also partially distorted it, recognizing it, and somewhat increased it, recognize it as well. In our view, it has found overall consistency at the end of our committee work. It is now called upon to improve in session, which the Group of the European People's Party is pleased to welcome. The substantial changes it has experienced were made possible by the specific method by which it was co-built. The consultation involved local elected officials, senators, rapporteurs, of course, but also those of whom I am a member. In addition to this, we have had a permanent and constructive exchange with the Prime Minister, whom I would like to thank in particular here not only for his knowledge of the territories, unanimously recognised, but also for his constant listening, with Mrs Emmanuelle Wargon, Minister responsible for housing, – we hope that this will improve certain arrangements, particularly the one related to the SRU, as has been pointed out on several occasions – and finally with you, Madam Minister. Throughout the legislature, you have had a constant exchange with the elected representatives. I've often witnessed your involvement. In October 2018, in Sète, you already came to take the pulse of local authorities by going to the Victor-Hugo district, which has since received funding from the Action coeur de ville programme. Later, when I was rapporteur of the law establishing the National Agency for the Cohesion of the Territories, I was able to measure once again your commitment to the local authorities – I am thinking of your support for the creation of third places, especially that of Sète. I enjoyed it again and again, when we discussed the conditions of eligibility for the Small Cities programme of tomorrow or the France program very high speed that respond to the daily concerns of the elected territory with which you have always remained in contact. This bill is a pragmatic compromise text: it is a useful work. Thank you very much, Minister. You have launched consultations, you have listened, you have responded by being realistic, by expressing your concern for balance, by taking into account the concrete needs, without yielding to any form of overbidding. We have often heard that this text has nothing to do with a great evening, which is probably true. Let us not forget that it has been drawn up under constant constitutional law. Some are calling for a deeper change on which, I am sure, the weeks and months ahead will allow a much broader debate to begin. Nevertheless, there is still a great text, both in its volume, in its content and in its ambition. He has a quadruple will in him. First of all, that of stabilising the inter-municipal institution which, as Remy Rebeyrotte pointed out very opportunely, is in no way the enemy of the commune. Secondly, that of stabilising the great balances, and in particular, something which has not been mentioned on the benches of the House, the operating allocations, after ten years of steady decline. It is also driven by the desire to accompany local and regional authorities with benevolence. The mayors, whom we know well, know exactly what has been done to them for almost five years. Finally, it is guided by the desire to trust the territories: it is a question of facilitating the lives of local communities, by simplifying, lifting brakes and blockages, reducing constraints and clarifying. The great joints of the text are known, I will not detail them: introduction of the principle of differentiation with strengthening of experiments in accordance with the principle of equality, marks a pragmatic flexibility, if any; new stage of decentralization extended to housing, transport and ecological transition, and strengthening of local regulatory power; new stage of deconcentration, with the strengthening of the prefect's powers in certain areas; Finally, a desire to carry out this simplification called for by the local elected representatives during the major debate. In the Group of the European People's Party, we have appreciated the developments that have taken place in committee and have accompanied them. We welcome the work of our colleague Antoine Herth, whether it is the organisation of cross-border sporting events, cross-border hospital cooperation through an amendment adopted unanimously, which we welcome, or learning in border areas, on which we will be asked to come back in our debates. We wanted to accompany as far as possible the logic that emerged during the previous stages of the discussion of the text with regard to the SRU system. We support the principle of its maintenance because it is generous, humanistic, fraternal, and supportive. We owe it to our compatriots. However, as we have said in committee, we would like it to be adapted to take account of local constraints and a qualitative approach. The systematization of the social mix contract is a good thing. This is a significant step in our view. It seems essential, however, that quality be promoted so as to avoid what has often been called the ghettoisation of social housing. This is what should be allowed by the amendment that we will be defending, which proposes that the three-year objectives of the social mix contract be adjusted in order to guarantee a more harmonious and balanced distribution of social housing in the communal area. As regards the loosening of constraints, the amendments which make a derogation from the prefect's assessment in municipalities with fewer than 5000 inhabitants seem to us to be moving in the right direction because they are characterised by a concern for social realities. The same applies to amendments to allow the prefect to grant derogations to municipalities affected by high rates of inconstructibility. We will vote on them. For my part, I will defend an amendment which, in the same spirit, allows the prefect to derogate from the ban on paillot installations in remarkable spaces where local specificities can justify them. In another area, we welcome in Article 31 the reform of the governance of regional health agencies, which has proved too far from reality. We welcome these provisions, which are in line with the recommendations made by Mr Agnès Firmin Le Bodo in his report last June. On the social front, we will support an amendment creating a specific protective status for employees living with a disabled or elderly person in order to improve care. Those who bear a high share of the burdens that I would call public must be able to benefit from national solidarity. Our group will also be presenting an amendment on the fight against the artificialisation of soil, proposing that the reduction of this phenomenon should be taken into account in the objectives of the construction of social housing. Others of our amendments deal with the regulation of rents; Thus, in the cities where this arrangement applies, we will propose that the lease be systematically transferred to the prefect and that the territorial community have the capacity to sanction the non-compliance itself, on the delegation of the prefect. We will also make proposals on unused railways, on property without masters, on areas of great passage, on burial chambers. I would like to thank the chairman of our group, Olivier Becht, who, as usual, mobilized his troops with serenity, thanks to his strength of conviction. He wanted us to bring to this bill the best of our collective ability to contribute. I also thank the employees of our group. Let us beware that the proposed Joint Joint Committee will be final – we have the feeling that everyone will have made their way to a point of agreement. Let us also beware that the discussion will take place under conditions as good and as serene as those which presided over our work in committee. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] The Group of the European People's Party will of course vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u157	Mr Pierre Morel - À- L'Hussier.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u158	Madam Minister, in the Committee on the Laws you have told us that you have travelled the French territory and have met many elected representatives and many prefects. They have said to you, it seems, that they do not want an umpteenth institutional reform, hence the text that you are proposing to us today. I have been a Member of Parliament for twenty years and, at the risk of displeasing you, I will tell you that I do not hear at all what you hear: I hear local elected officials, including mayors of small communes, but also citizens who no longer understand anything. This government has already done the trick with the law defended by Minister Lecornu, under the pompous title of "law on engagement in local life and proximity to public action" – in fact a small law that has not served much. At that time, we had already proposed strong measures, but you had referred us to the future 4D law, now the 3DS law. Unfortunately, the text you are proposing to us is a catch-all text where everyone is trying to pass a small answer to a small problem – without having previously ensured that the drafting of any particular amendment is legally perfect. In fact, Madam Minister, you have responded to a political command: "No Big Bang, we don't touch anything at the institutional level. »
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u159	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u160	In this country, we hear four leitmotivs: "Don't touch my commune! – on the part of the AMF; "Don't touch my department! – on the part of ADF; "Don't touch my intercommunality! – from the ADCF (Assemblée des communautés de France); and "Don't touch my region! » – from the Regions of France. Because of this refusal to act, we remain stuck in an administrative and institutional magma. I am delighted to repeat this to the national representation: today there are 37,500 historic communes, 1500 new communes – some of which are already asking for divorce –, 3000 intercommunal unions with a single vocation (SIVU), 2000 intercommunal unions with a multiple vocation (SIVOM), more than 100 countries, territorial and rural balance poles (PETR), mixed unions, mixed unions of regional nature parks, national parks, communities of communes, communities of agglomerations, not to mention 101 departments, departmental agreements, mixed economy societies (SEM), EPLs, local public companies (SPLs), public and parapublic associations and XXL regions. This mantle of Arlequin, this indigestible millefeuille, prevents us from knowing who is doing what – especially since the MAPTAM and OUR laws have changed the situation again. We now have large cantons that no longer correspond to the basins of life, large intercommunalities with at least 5000 inhabitants, which obliges some elected ones to drive two or three hours – this is the case in my department of Lozère, and more particularly in the Cevennes. Imagine a meeting of the community of communes starting at 20:00 – farmers are not available before – and ending at about twenty-three o'clock: the chosen one returns home at two o'clock in the morning. As for the constitution of large regions, which has increased their number from twenty-six to thirteen, it has sometimes brought more than four hours of journey between the capitals of the departments that make up them – for example, the prefecture of La Lozère, Mende, compared with Toulouse. We have thus managed to achieve a false decentralization, where the local elected official must give allegiance to the prefect in order to obtain certain endowments and where the citizen desperately seeks the administrative counter which will provide him with an answer. Decentralization has become a veritable decoy and many local elected officials resign, as is the case in my department – five in the space of four months! That is to say, the decrepitude of the French administrative system, which no longer listens to the basic citizen. It is enough to hear what the departmental delegates of the Defender of Rights say, who each tries to get a response from recalcitrant administrations. They do not always succeed, complaining about the lack of windows and the dehumanization of the administration. In order to resolve certain situations, I am led to push out prefects – I don't mind – and central, regional and departmental administrations, measuring every day the widening gap between the institutions, the French administration and the citizens. You're presenting differentiation as a major inspiration to the project, but are you sure, Minister? What will the Constitutional Council, the Council of State and administrative justice say? I fear that this reform will complicate everything. Mr Cubertafon even proposes in his report a different wording from differentiation, that is to say. When I asked you in the Committee on Laws for a government report on rurality – particularly hyper-rurality – taking into account the new definition recently given by INSEE, you simply referred me to the Cubertafon report and to the Secretary of State for Rural Affairs. I cannot accept that, as a minister responsible for land use planning, you did not immediately accede to my request for a report, which must allow for the differentiation of hyper-rurality to be objected to. Since we have the European community of Alsace, the status of Corsica and overseas, but also the laws "coast" and "mountain", why not also launch a reflection on hyper-rurality? Madam Minister, I would like to ask you once again for this report, which will allow us to analyse the specificities of rural areas, because if some rural areas are well, others are in arrears. How do you treat the Lozère, which has 76000 inhabitants, and the Ain, which has 647,000 inhabitants in the same way? How do you want small rural communes, especially those with fewer than 500 inhabitants, which are the most numerous – 18,000 – to be able to ingurgrate the arsenal of circulars, directives, decrees and decrees imposed on them today? Many town halls are not open every day in these small communes: town hall secretaries are often present only one or two half days a week. That is the reality in our territories! I call for specific statutes for rural and hyper-rural areas. In a study published on 30 April 2021, INSEE changed the statistical concept of rurality, which is no longer defined as "debossed" in relation to urbanized areas: rural communities are no longer "all non-urban communes". From now on, the calculation is based mainly on the criterion of population density and results in the distribution of French communes into four types: the "low density" and "very low density" communes form rurality, while the "dense" and "intermediate density" communes form urban spaces. According to this idea, 88% of the municipalities and 33% of the population belong to rural areas, which places us as the second most rural country in Europe after Poland, with the European average of 28%. This distinction in four types, two of which belong to rural areas, half-worded the concept of hyper-rurality, which would affect 26 per cent of the territory and accommodate 5.4 per cent of the population. Hyper-rurality is an area where natural handicaps and access to public and private services combine, and where nothing is possible without strong and specific support from the State. The notion of territorial divide is no longer a myth, it describes the very real inequalities existing between the territories of a France at several speeds. The hyper-rural territories, however, are not second zone territories. They are key players in agricultural production and can also be involved in heritage matters, or in becoming areas of experimentation and solidarity – this is the case with Lozère, particularly in the area of disability. The State must fully recognize the hyper-rural territories and develop a strategic vision for suitable development. That is why I would ask you, by way of an amendment, to set the stage for a reflection on a specific status of hyper-rurality, which would benefit my dear department of Lozère. I will be told that the Lozère is not an island. Certainly, but the metropolises of Paris, Lyon and Marseilles neither, and they nevertheless benefit from specific schemes. What applies to urban municipalities must apply to rural areas. Your bill does not provide any response in this regard. As far as deconcentration is concerned, you are well aware that the Organic Law on Finance Laws (LOLF) and successive reforms have concentrated decisions at the regional level. Today, you propose a reverse movement, carried out towards the departmental level, giving the prefects an increased and transversal role. Do you believe that the prefect of the department will have power over the Director General of the Regional Health Agency (ARS) – this famous "health prefect", who is the Court of Cassation alone – on the Regional Directorate for the Environment, Planning and Housing (DREAL), on the Regional Directorate for Economy, Employment, Labour and Solidarity (DREETS), on the Regional Academic Delegation for Youth, Engagement and Sport (DRAJES), on the Regional Directorate for Food, Agriculture and Forestry (DRAAF), on the Regional Directorate for Public Finance (DRFIP), or on the Interregional Directorate for the Sea (DIRM)? It is illusory to imagine, Madam Minister! I come to some specific issues. In the field of health, the IDU and independent group regrets that the majority have gone back to the few measures to better integrate the territorial elected representatives and we hope, for a real decentralisation of the health competence to the regions, that a regional objective of health insurance expenditure will be introduced instead of the current national objective of health insurance expenditure (ONDAM). On the environmental side, the massive deletion by your majority of the provisions relating to the evolution of the SRU legislation introduced by the Senate is incomprehensible. These measures were essential to make the construction of social housing more acceptable: the concentration of the least favoured households in the same place must be stopped. With regard to wind energy, the removal of the measures expected by the elected representatives in favour of residents who suffer daily nuisances is not defensible. Wind energy becomes a real poison in small communes, dividing the population and damaging the landscapes – so come and see in Lozère what it gives! The deletion of Article 13 quater, which allows the slaughter of wolves – a real scourge for our mountain farmers – is also a mistake. Is it necessary for a wolf to devour a girl so that we become aware of the situation and finally react? How to explain to our elected representatives the removal of the ease of delegation of powers between the state and the communities, the ease of division of the EPCIs, the transfer of powers between municipalities and EPCI, the mandatory nature of the transfer of powers in the field of water – if the 10000 Lozère captures were to be part of the intercommunality, I do not tell you the panic that it would be! – from the veto of the council for wind energy, and I pass it? In the course of the discussions, your text has become a technical text, which opens up tracks especially on national roads and on small railway lines. But what assessments have been made of these transfers of competence? What allocations will be allocated by the State? We don't know. Within the territories, three areas are at the heart of the population's concerns: health, with the question of lack of access to a doctor and hospital; the development of digital technology and in particular fibre optics; a new response to public service reception. Your text does not say any of this. At the end of your speech, the minister, you made a bit of a fuss when you spoke of "suffering" before you resumed. And yet, there is much suffering in rural areas, I can attest to it! You and the government to which you belong don't say anything about phone problems either, with Orange not respecting universal service – this is a problem that I have been denouncing for years. The men and women of the territories face real difficulties, to which this text does not provide any concrete answers. I have tabled amendments to strengthen the legal framework for differentiation contained in the General Code of Local and Regional Authorities (CGCT), to strengthen the power of the prefects when implementing differentiated action, to create a tax rescript for local elected officials, to perpetuate the rural revitalization zones (ZRRs), subject to some changes, and finally to create a fund for the development of association life for associations in rural areas. Minister, in 20 years, I have seen a number of territorial planning ministers succeed each other and a number of laws. In France, we have the art of complicating things without solving problems. Your amended text, which contains provisions covering areas as varied as ecology, urban planning, transport, biodiversity or rural roads, does not meet the deep expectations of public policy. I regret that, but I had to say that, because I do not want this flirtancy of measures to deceive our fellow citizens. We are going to open a discussion on this text, but I have a lot of doubts about the solutions that will result from it. In front of the Assemblée des départements de France, the Prime Minister acknowledged it; This bill is not a revolution: "It is a sum of small improvements and I assume it. There is going to be a major national debate that will take place in the context of the presidential election and we will see if we need to go further in the exercise of decentralization. Everything is said.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u161	Mr Jean-Félix Acquaviva has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u162	The management of the two major quinquennium crises – the covid-19 pandemic and the yellow vest crisis – highlighted the dysfunctions of the French, vertical and uniform Jacobin model. These two crises revealed the same evils: over-administration and excessive concentration of decision-making. In the wake of the great national debate following the yellow vest movement, the President of the Republic seemed to be aware of the danger of a power too vertical and too far away from the realities of the terrain experienced by the French. Thus, in April 2019, he called for "a new act of decentralization", evoking his wish to "change the way in which the Republic is organised", in particular on "the problems of daily life: ecological transition, housing, transport", with the objective of "guaranteeing decisions closer to the ground". He even announced that "a real decentralized Republic is a clear competence that is totally transferred by removing duplicates": "there is a clear transfer of funding and the transfer of democratic responsibility that goes with it". We are very far from it with this text, which is essentially technical and lacks a long-term vision of decentralization. In particular, the argument of stability is put forward to justify the lack of ambition of this bill. Yet the current state of our democracy, with its climate of widespread distrust and the rise of populist discourse, makes this status quo untenable. The institutional structure has an urgent need for readability, which necessarily requires a real shock of decentralization. Previous decentralization texts have been incomplete. Some powers have been transferred, but never completely, the state always reluctant to entrust them to the communities and the prefect is never far away – it is even omnipresent in some territories, until questioning the exercise of powers by the communities. The result is an entanglement of stakeholders that is detrimental to public action. This bill does not provide any clarity; sometimes even seems to make the situation even more difficult. Nor does it provide for any major transfer of powers: we will see what will emerge from the debates, but for the time being, this appointment is missed. Without overall consistency, this text brings together in more than 200 articles an impressive number of very precise technical adjustment measures, usually consisting of arrangements that are sometimes welcome, because they are common sense, sometimes less. This includes promoting departments and inter-communities, while the NOTRE Act had increased the powers of the regions. During the two weeks devoted to the first reading of the text, the Liberties and Territories Group will support many amendments aimed at improving these measures and increasing their ambition. We propose, among other things, to improve the role of the regions, to take better account of the particularities of the territories, in particular rural or mountain areas, but also of the history and political situation in Corsica. We want to fight real estate speculation in the most affected areas, to improve the role of elected representatives in the various bodies, especially with regard to the prefect. We will oppose several quasi-recentralizations, such as that of water agencies – a climax for a decentralization bill! We suggest re-establishing the region as a level of coordination of employment policy. On the other hand, we regret that we cannot propose the real decentralisation of large blocks of competence which the country needs: like those of other groups, our amendments to this effect have been declared inadmissible. The scope of this text remains very limited: in reality, it does not relate entirely to decentralization, let alone regional autonomy. The few and modest transfers of skills concern what is most expensive to the State and therefore seek to get rid of: small railway lines, national roads, the possibility for departments to invest in hospitals. Moreover, as they are not accompanied by the necessary resource transfers, they may create an additional financial burden for communities. There are even re-centralizations of skills, for example, that of the RSA. While we can understand that some financially suffocated departments have requested it, it is unique in a bill that includes the word "decentralization" in its title. Once again, however, the transfer of large blocks of skills would be indispensable. Most of our neighbours are highly decentralized, if not federal, states. The only European country where transport, education, health, tourism, culture and security remain centralized, France is an exception. The policies of employment, energy transition, health and safety will give me as many enlightening examples. First of all, how can we understand that the region is competent for economic development without having any levers for action relating to employment? The Assembly returned to the committee on the timid progress of the Senate in this regard. However, instruments such as Pôle Emploi would benefit from being at the right level, with the State retaining only a role of coordinating and rebalancing economic inequalities, while employment skills would be fully transferred to the regions. The second example is energy renovation. How can we imagine driving this policy from Paris to social and environmental implications? Again, envelopes must be decentralized. It would be up to the State to set targets and monitor them. The third example is health policies. Their financing is a matter of national solidarity; However, the crisis of the covid-19 has brought to light the heavyness and over-administration of the regional pilotage of the health system, which is based on the RHAs. Again, the majority returned to committee on the Senate's improvements to better involve the regions in this pilotage. Worse, the text provides for communities to participate in funding health care institutions! It is precisely the opposite that should be done: to reaffirm the funding of health policy, national competence, and to reintroduce proximity to communities in the territorial conduct of this policy. The directors of hospitals could thus be appointed by the presidents of regional councils. Last example, the competence in security matters could also be decentralised, with a better association of elected officials with the strategy of the security forces in their territory – they could even be entrusted with the appointment of the leaders of territorialised security forces, as is the practice in many European regions. In addition, a sine qua non for the autonomy of communities is their ability to finance themselves from their own resources. However, the Government had restricted the financial autonomy of the departments and regions, and had abolished the housing tax, which was enjoyed by the municipalities. From now on, communities are living on grants; However, they would need real fiscal autonomy in order to establish a pact of trust but also an ethic of responsibility. Beyond this, a constitutional reform would be necessary for the differentiation that this bill so often mentions without ever making any attempt to do so, the measures to this effect being most often purely declarative. In the sense that you hear it, differentiation usually consists in giving communities the right to make proposals that will never or almost be accepted, for example those of the Assembly of Corsica to the Prime Minister: for twenty years, almost all have remained unanswered. I repeat, it is urgent to include this concept in the Constitution and to give the communities a real power to adapt legislative norms, until they have a status of autonomy of full right and full exercise for Corsica, as well as for the other territories that demand it democratically. France would thus do no more or less than slowly draw closer to its European neighbours in terms of the distribution of competences. Finally, while the Libertés et Territoires Group can hardly oppose this series of technical adjustments which we agree in part with, we regret the total lack of ambition of the text, which remains far below the expectations of the territories. The large associations of local elected representatives, gathered in congresses, have in fact called for a new impetus of decentralization, with real transfers of skills, responsibilities and funding; an impetus based on the principles of subsidiarity and community financial and fiscal autonomy, which facilitates experimentation, legislative and regulatory adaptations, and even the enactment of rules by deliberative assemblies under clearly transferred competences; In short, a new impetus for a new political and democratic pact. This issue cannot be absent from the next presidential campaign, under the risk of aggravating the territorial divides that undermine the country's cohesion. We see it every day: the more annoyed it is in the public debate that the Republic is strong, one and indivisible, sometimes from the perspective of egalitarianism and uniformity, the more uprooted it appears, the more it is traversed by blissful lizards – economic, social, cultural and democratic. It can be seen, it can be understood. There are many subjects of tension. Let's mediate these facts.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u163	Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u164	I would like to inform you that the situation in our France is deteriorating from day to day. As I speak to you, unemployment affects 15% of Martinique, 17% of Réunion, 20% of Guyanans, 21% of Guadeloupees, 28% of Mahorais, to name but a few. Moreover, we all know that the reality of employment is quite different and much more serious. You will understand this: I intend to speak of the ultramarine territories, of this abandoned, despised France, of this sub-France within France. I will not even mention the poverty that is breaking records, the cost of life that is ravaging it. Despite Emmanuel Macron's promises, the situation, far from improving, deteriorated further during his quinquennium. I repeat, you abandoned the overseas! Last but not least: your reform of unemployment insurance, which has further impoverished the most precarious part of the population, such as seasonal workers. You were aware of these effects, but they don't matter to you: you govern for the rich, and there are no employees! Access to water is another serious problem that you refuse to address, although Mathilde Panot, the president of our group, has repeatedly called for it. Many ultramarines do not have running water, or water that no one here would venture to drink; In addition to this, the shortage of water brought to Réunion by global warming and which causes daily cuts in some cities, while bills remain salty. The same applies to social housing: poor or even unhealthy, they ruin the lives of many of their tenants, which does not prevent prices from rising. Finally, it is unacceptable that in Mayotte, 70 per cent of residents live below the poverty line, and often in slums: the department will have been so neglected that this social crisis, for which the Government is responsible, has turned into a pandemic. Your contradictions, your disconnected laws from reality, led the Antilleans to revolt against you as early as November 15th; elsewhere, the climate remains very tense. The sense of abandonment is such that a simple blaze would now be enough to ignite an uncontrollable fire. That is the situation; you know it. Why, then, perpetuate the social apartheid regime predicted and feared by Paul Vergès thirty-five years ago? We are of course ultramarine, but French anyway: why not listen to us? In view of this, your text is not such as to give us hope. You would like to experiment for three years with replacing the compulsory public survey with a simple public participation, carried out by electronic means, the two procedures being included in the environmental code. The urgency of remedying the mal-housing could at first glance justify such a provision; However, it ignores the fact that the public inquiry is the only tool for informing and involving the inhabitants in the operations concerned: they will thus be a little more excluded from the management of their places of life and environmental safeguards will be a little more weakened. You would like to see the creation by the communities of Guadeloupe, Guyana, La Réunion, Martinique and Mayotte of a public industrial and commercial establishment (EPIC) competent for vocational training. In the absence of national staffing, only the best-served communities will be able to adequately fund it; In others, he will be forced to sell more to balance his accounts. You want to allow the French Southern and Antarctic Lands (TAAF) to sign mandate agreements and therefore to resort to participatory financing: why not give them more resources, instead of forcing them to use private funds to carry out a policy decided by the central state? Above all, why didn't you take into account the situation of ultramarine citizens, the illiteracy rate and the digital divide on our islands? Why don't you have measures to combat all the viruses, all the diseases that go through them? Why don't you consider our young people, who are our future, or the employees, not even the caregivers, who are spending difficult times in this period of health crisis? Why don't you put an end to unsafe living and the lack of social housing? Inequality between overseas and Hexagon remains: why don't you plan on catching up? In response to social movements, Minister Lecornu said he was open to debate on autonomy. This 3DS bill could have met the need for more social justice, more equality, more responsibility; But nothing's done. Your text is worthless, it's useless. Moreover, your entire mandate consolidates the social apartheid regime in the overseas – all in an unhealthy atmosphere of metropolitan preference to employment. But maybe you can still react! This is even your last chance. So accept the amendments of the ultramarine parliamentarians. If your ego does not allow it, if your intelligence does not offer you this possibility, while the French Government is tabling amendments! If our amendments do not go far enough, do not hesitate to amend them! [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] If you don't answer, you don't respect any human being, you don't care about requests from the overseas territories. In these circumstances, the La France insoumée group will vote against the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u165	Mrs Vainqueur-Christophe has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u166	Over the past 20 years, legislators and the state have undergone a profound change in the territorial landscape and in local institutions. The various changes that have taken place have had a major impact in our overseas territories: creation of intercommunities, transfer of skills, timid experiments and inadequate legislative adaptations. These reforms, deconcentrations and acts of decentralization, resulting in overlapping skills, have often been poorly accompanied and disconnected from their direct consequences on the ground. It's not all to throw away, of course. I am thinking in particular of the constitutional loosening of 2003. I am also thinking of what the local executives of Martinique and Guadeloupe were able to achieve, thanks in particular to the authorizations. Guadeloupe was the first community to seize it by adopting "peyi" laws adapting standards. In spite of all this – we see it in the wake of the terrible crisis in Guadeloupe – the question of the domiciliation of local power has emerged. Beyond the institutional or statutory debates, I affirm that the constitutional framework already offers us the means to respond to the need for differentiation. Everything else is a matter of other constitutional processes, and everyone knows what we are proposing in this area. Before I speak of autonomy, as I have heard, I would speak of democracy, horizontality, relegitimization and consideration of elected officials, as well as of strengthening the adaptation of laws. But everyone has to be ready for it! As a local elected official, long responsible for the future of a community, I know how much all the reforms decided in Paris cause destabilization, or are a hindrance, when they are not built in concert with those who act as close as possible to the interests of the population. But you have to listen to the executive! You know the ardour of ultramarine elected officials in Parliament, minister, to ensure that no legislation is passed without its consequences on the ground being anticipated. However, without a government and a majority attentive to our remarks, too often a text is voted on without any of our proposals being accepted. All the ultramarine elected officials find, alas, even on the benches of your own majority, that the so-called "overseas reflex" was only a slogan. Everyone here sees that the uniformity of national policies too often remains the rule and that differentiation remains a mirage. This results in public policies that are sometimes disconnected from our realities and ineffective for our populations. Let us recall what we have seen for almost five years: verticality, centrality and deafness. Let me cite a few concrete examples. In 2018, ultramarine elected officials are not heard when they ask for derogations from the abolition of overseas assisted jobs. There must be chaos in Guadeloupe a week ago in order to decide to recreate 1000 of these jobs, no less than three years later. In 2018, it was decided, contrary to the opinion of ultramarine parliamentarians, to remove the personalized housing assistance (APL) accession. For a year, the start-ups collapsed, and the Government decided to face up. In 2019 we are presenting, together with several colleagues in my group, a bill to create a compensation fund for the victims of chlordecone and paraquat in Guadeloupe and Martinique, which was not adopted here. We then launch a commission of inquiry, but the Government still refuses to engage in real substantive work to redress the evil that has been done. Neither the new chlordecone plan, nor the opening of the occupational disease table, will change an iota to the food, health, economic and social disaster that we are experiencing. This waste still feeds the protests on the dams today. That same year, the Government had imposed a law on Guadeloupe, purporting to settle the water tragedy once and for all by creating an open joint trade union. On these benches, we warned you that the resolution of governance problems would not change anything at the core of the difficulties, i.e. funding. However, less than three months after the creation of the SMO, we return to square one: the union is unable to finance its operations and investments. [[Applause on the SOC benches]] Thus, in five years, no legislation specific to overseas has been introduced; almost no amendment, whether from a majority or opposition, has been adopted; All the overseas reforms were carried out without the elected representatives, without the socio-professionals of our islands and without civil society. If it is happy, minister, that this bill is finally coming, let us make it clear that it is very late and largely undersized. As usual, we will do our job with specific amendments; As always, we will appeal to your benevolence to consider them and to have them adopted, but, I must say, without making too many illusions. However, differentiation, adaptation and decentralization can only be built with elected representatives. It is up to you, the minister, to hear us, to associate and to accompany us.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u167	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u168	The timetable for your text, Madam Minister, at the end of the parliamentary term, and a few months before the presidential election, will not allow it to cause a major change in our institutional balance.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u169	That's the least we can say!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u170	Our institutions and the relationship between the state and local and regional authorities will inevitably be the subject of more ambitious proposals in the coming months than in this bill. Nevertheless, it has the ambition to deal with a number of problems faced by territorial elected officials in a wide variety of fields. Like many of us here, I can testify to the fact that these elected officials have been in some sort of turn for the past fifteen years. In 2014, they had to prepare their communities to adapt to a drastic drop in endowments that profoundly disrupted their ability to conduct public policy in the territories. Secondly, the law OUR – some of which say it is not theirs – has greatly changed the balance of institutions in the territories, leading to institutional adaptations between municipalities and intercommunalities up to the last few years or even in recent months: we are still there, in reality, so much so that stability is today the first aspiration of the elected ones. They do not necessarily support the status quo but want us to take the time to digest what has happened. They also want something that is very lacking to local public officials today: the readability of the relationship that the state plans to maintain with the communities. They also expect coherence – our policies sometimes sin for lack of coherence in France – and common sense in public policies. The main criticism that could be addressed to the Government today is that it wants to settle everything in a systematic and often uniform manner, while a minimum of flexibility and common sense could greatly improve things, including in the relationship between public authorities and the State. To avoid being too long, I would just like to mention two of the areas covered by this bill. The first is health. This is one of the main concerns of our citizens and of the territorial elected representatives who, on the one hand, are confronted with medical desertification and, on the other, must accompany or even manage the health crisis since March 2020. It must be said that the State has sometimes failed on certain subjects, before asking the local and regional authorities to support it in the management of the health crisis. This is reflected, for example, in the involvement of communities in the establishment and management of immunization centres. This ongoing commitment: many communities are being asked to ensure that vaccination centres are more sustainable than initially imagined and that their capacity is maintained or even increased, as the need increases, with the third dose and the prospect of vaccination of minors over 5 years of age with co-morbidities. We have already said that the UDI-I Group is in favour of regionalisation of health policies because the prevalence of pathologies, the questions related to the presence of doctors and the hospital problems are not the same depending on whether you are in the Hauts-de-France, in Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur or in the Centre-Val de Loire. This is obvious, but rather than a uniform policy across the country, regionalization is the answer to the diversity of issues from one territory to another. Our group will make proposals in the course of the debate because the progress in the text, the Senate's return and then corrected in committee, seems to us to be a step backwards from our ambitions on this issue. The second area I wanted to mention is water policy. Whether they are part of the big or small cycle, they are also one of the major concerns of our fellow citizens and territorial elected officials – an immediate concern, but also a medium and of course a long-term one. I will start with the great water cycle and the management of aquatic environments. Many regret the transfer of this policy to intercommunities; I do not think it is desirable to reconsider this transfer, but here again, greater flexibility on the part of the State administration would be necessary. The aim is to avoid that, in certain areas, such as the ecological continuity of watercourses, strict application – and to say the least, stupid – of the regulations leads to incongruity. Wanting that the mayor of a city of 17000 inhabitants of the North of the Loir-et-Cher – whom you know well, Madam Minister – removes a mirror of water in the city centre, under the pretext of ecological continuity and with the result a lasting, continuous and dangerous lowering of the water level, seems to me to be an incongruity; We have to go back to that decision. This is not only a matter of law or regulation, but sometimes simply a matter of common sense in the application of the latter. With regard to the policies of the small water cycle, we both know, Madam Minister, that the local elected representatives – we are with the same people – were not frankly calling for the transfer of water and sanitation policies. Again, some pragmatism and common sense are needed. It seems difficult to transfer what has been transferred, as the policies are technical and as the transfer of skills takes time. Although the possibilities for relegation are welcome, the water services' assets and their management patterns, which differ within the same territory, do not seem to require a review of the transfers that have been made. On the other hand, we hope that after 2026 the transfer will remain optional for communities of communes: this flexibility would be welcome in the management of water policies. The two examples I have just mentioned illustrate the position of the IDU and independent group: we endorse several provisions of the bill, and wish to deepen some of them – we will submit proposals to the Government in this direction, as we have done before. Finally, I would like to thank you, Madam Minister, for having adopted in committee my amendment on rural roads, which restores the provision of the "climate and resilience" law: this will solve various problems affecting this aspect of rural heritage to which we are all committed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u171	Mrs Josette Manin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u172	We are in the process of considering the bill on differentiation, decentralization, deconcentration and various measures to simplify local public action. It has been waiting for several months to give local communities and elected representatives room for manoeuvre, and should pave the way for a form of territorial differentiation in Hexagon and overseas. By chance of the calendar, the text is submitted to us at the very moment when the West Indies are experiencing strong social movements linked to health, security and expensive living. A few moments ago, Mr.Ratenon referred to the embers in the West Indies; We are no longer in the ember stage, but in the fire: yes, the fire has already taken place in Martinique and Guadeloupe. I would like to draw the State's attention to this extremely difficult situation, and to the imperative of finally providing answers to the structural problems we have been facing for decades. As adopted by the Law Committee, Title VIII, which deals with issues directly related to several ultramarine territories, contains eighteen articles dealing, inter alia, with the creation, on an experimental basis, of a state of exceptional natural calamity overseas; the obligation to attend training courses on prevention of natural hazards; the acquisitive prescription in Mayotte and Saint-Barthélemy; the creation of a category of EPIC in the field of vocational training in communities governed by Article 73 of the Constitution; or the use of the mandate conventions for the French Southern and Antarctic Lands. But overseas would have deserved an organic programming law, as promised a few years ago, rather than a title drowned in a hundred articles. This is, moreover, the last major text of the legislature. We fear that its title VIII, which will come to the end of our discussions, will not be dealt with in good conditions: due to the scheduled legislative time, we may not have the time to deal with our specific problems. If that were the case, it would be a new failure for the overseas countries. A genuine policy of recognition of overseas assets is absolutely necessary. First of all, it should be translated into measures to: facilitate the return of the Antilleans and to really take into account the centre of the material and moral interests (CIMM) of the ultramarine civil servants; set aside the decisions on the tax reduction; to re-establish the accession LPA in the overseas countries and territories; to regain the number of jobs assisted before 2017; to restore the challenges of social housing; to facilitate the production of "green" and "blue" energies; and finally to take the path of repair in cases such as chlordecone pollution, the fight against expensive life or the revitalization of territories. As you will have understood, Madam Minister, we deeply regret the absence of a law specific to the overseas countries and territories. Our regrets will not change anything as the end of the legislature approaches. However, we identify some ways of catching up: we have therefore chosen to table amendments to complete a text which must be recognised that, for the time being, it does not overturn the table. To take only the case of the West Indies, the territorial community of Martinique had proposed amendments aimed at improving its action and functioning. The vast majority of them have unfortunately been declared inadmissible under article 45 of the Constitution: this is yet another proof of the lack of consideration for the ultramarine populations and territories, even though anger is rumbling.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u173	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u174	Not at all! We're all in the same house, including the Government!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u175	The commission also deleted the article concerning the agencies of the fifty geometric steps: it aimed in particular to postpone from 2022 to 2025 the transfer of the urbanised parts of the zone of the fifty geometric steps in the public domain of the region of Guadeloupe and of the territorial community of Martinique, and to extend the activities of those agencies until 2031. Amendments designed to facilitate the exercise of police power by the agency of the fifty geometric steps of Martinique, in order to strengthen the preservation and control of land in the area of the fifty steps, were declared inadmissible. Do you measure the effects of this decision in our territories? The ultramarine territories deserve better, Minister; More than ever, they need economic, structural, territorial, social and institutional revitalization measures. Overseas countries find it difficult to accept their treatment. You certainly miss a chance to write history in a way favourable to those territories that make France the Republic on which the sun never sets.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u176	Mrs Sophie Métadier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u177	We welcome the work of the rapporteurs and commissions on this bill, as well as the involvement of Senate rapporteurs, Françoise Gatel and Mathieu Darnaud. This apparently balanced text presents all the dimensions announced – differentiation, decentralization, deconcentration and, to a lesser extent, simplification – all of which constitute an indispensable response to the evolution of the territories. However, a more careful reading reveals that some measures are too limited. The text thus contains several shortcomings, particularly in the field of local finance – but there is no decision-making power without real fiscal power. It would have been beneficial to develop new virtuous financial solidarity. We have stated this on many occasions: we hope that the prefect of department will be the gateway to the territorial state, and that the consequences of the health crisis that we are still going through will be the subject of concrete measures in the bill. For example, the arrangements for sharing the governance of the regional health agencies set out in the text disappoint us: we want the regional president and the regional prefect to be involved in this governance, in order to better perceive the daily difficulties faced by elected officials in the territories. In addition, we believe that it is essential that the competences of local and regional authorities be differentiated. As my colleague Pierre Morel-À-L' Huissier has observed, is it appropriate to manage the communes of Lozère, Loir-et-Cher and Hauts-de-Seine in the same way? Our citizens expect greater decentralization: they want decisions to be taken as closely as possible to their daily lives, at a local and appropriate level; In short, they ask for greater clarity and proximity to public action, although it sometimes seems to them illegible and often too far away. We want to be useful and constructive, but in order to do so, the parliamentary majority still needs to accept part of the proposals of the various parliamentary groups on housing, local skills, wind energy and health. The text deals with matters that, on their own, could have been the subject of a separate bill – I am thinking of a revision of the SRU Act. The Senate had examined these issues on the basis of two reports by our colleague Valérie Létard. However, there was a need to preserve a useful law to support social housing and ensure its distribution in the Territory. For the last twenty years, half of the social housing units have been built in the municipalities concerned by the SRU law. However, the rigid application of the law discourages mayors, who are increasingly committed to social housing. Adaptation is necessary because the effort required by 2025 has become unrealistic for many municipalities. In this regard, Bill 3DS contains three important advances: the extension of the SRU law without a deadline; the introduction of a differentiated and contractualised catch-up, thanks to a social mix contract signed between the mayor and the prefect; and a reform of the exemptions. The social mix contract must take into account the difficulties and efforts of the municipalities, and bring together all local actors; its respect must lead to not pronounce the deficiency. A priority will also be given to key workers in the allocation of social housing: this measure draws lessons from the health crisis, and strengthens the link between housing and employment; It is a key element in the support of the population and elected representatives for social housing. As for the provisions adopted by the Senate to combat ghettos, they were abolished by the majority in committee; We propose to restore them. To promote social mix, it seems unreasonable that the rate of social and very social housing in a city exceeds 40%. We hope that the many hours of debate ahead will lead to a more ambitious text. Let us hope that the majority will support our approach and agree on a more balanced text that meets the expectations of local elected officials and the territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u178	Since several of the speakers who were registered after Ms Métadier were absent, the floor was for Mr Nicolas Dupont-Aignan.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u179	I just got called in the hallways, because I didn't know my colleagues would pass their turn; Let me take my breath, Madam President!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u180	Take your time!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u181	You shouldn't be sick!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u182	"Bill on differentiation, decentralization, deconcentration and various measures to simplify local public action": the technocratic, contradictory and incomprehensible title of your text speaks for itself. How can we hope to simplify the action of the State when the Government is unable to simplify the title of a bill? In reality, the more you talk about decentralization, the less you practice it. Decentralization only makes sense if the elected representatives are given real responsibility in the face of voters who are supposed to be able to control their actions. Over time, however, the multiplication of the ranks and the general confusion of competences are disturbing the democratic game. No one understands who does what, as evidenced by the explosion of abstention in the last regional and departmental elections. First of all, you destroyed the tax liability of municipal, departmental and regional elected officials. By not going back to this point – removal of the housing tax, confusion of the resources of the departments and the regions – the text misses the essential. But worse, in the continuity of the terrible law OUR, you continue – this is the essential – to stifle the communes which are yet the very cell of democratic breathing. Dispossessed of their powers and finances which have been transferred to obese, invasive and sometimes almost feudal intercommunities, mayors are discouraged, to the point that some resign. It will be very costly to replace tomorrow's treasure of volunteerism and commitment in the service of their commune, local elected officials. But you persist and sign. The best example of this is that you propose to transfer water and sanitation skills to intercommunals, removing from mayors one of their last attributes, while this service was working and water was not expensive.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u183	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u184	We would at least have hoped that this transfer could be optional. You also refuse to grant the mayor and his city council any veto power to the installation of wind turbines that destroy France and cause the inhabitants of their villages to flee, and prefer to thicken the wallet of foreign investment funds, without bringing any energy or ecological advantage. You are tightening the standards of the SRU law, without understanding that if municipalities do not build as much social housing as you would like, it is precisely because of the requirements of the State and, above all, the unprecedented decline in the appropriations allocated to social housing. In your delusion of the rejection of any artificialisation of the soil, the communes must now undergo the policy of the metropolises and intercommunalities, which impose their zones of constructibility in the PLU, concentrate them in the city centres and prohibit the villages from developing. How many mayors have told me their distress about this! You are always talking about simplification, but your bill, with the exception of a few good provisions, is a model of complexity. How do you intend to simplify things when you allow delegation of competencies between communities? Where is the simplification when you commit the transfer of national roads to the regions rather than to the departments? Finally, differentiation is likely to become a new gas plant that will deconcentrate our fellow citizens a little more and keep them away from democratic life and from the vote. To truly simplify, decentralize and respond to the equality needs of the French, the role of the State should be rehabilitated by means of a large spatial planning law; There is a need to radically simplify the levels of communities and their competences by strengthening the historical relationship between departments and municipalities. In a word, the triptych should be rebuilt: state, departments, communes. This, of course, amounts to repealing the NOTRE law to give back their powers to the mayors and to consecrating the commune as the basic unit of the nation – which in no way prohibits intercommunal cooperation at the level of the basin of life. It also amounts to putting everything on the department by abolishing the region as a territorial community and to structuring the organization around the eternal duo: commune, département.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u185	The general discussion is closed. The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u186	I thank all the speakers – Christophe Euzet, Pascal Brindeau, Sophie Métadier, Patrick Loiseau, Rémy Rebeyrotte, Hervé Saulignac... – who have made measured and positive speeches, even if we do not agree on everything; However, we know that we can reach common conclusions and find common ground. I was not disappointed by the speech of Mr. Nicolas Dupont-Aignan, who has just left: everything was there, if I may say so; I thank him, however, for having noted some "good practice" measures. For a moment I shall turn to the situation in the Overseas Territories, which has been discussed a lot. I turn to you, ladies Sage, Manin and Vainqueur-Christophe, who represent these territories in this House at this moment: we know the difficulties they are going through. I have recently had the opportunity to discuss this with President Letchimy on Martinique, and I am very sensitive to his reflection on the future of this territory, which I know well, moreover. Many challenges remain. Nevertheless, I would like to reiterate to you that this bill does not provide for institutional reform. Mrs Manin, several of your amendments have been declared inadmissible under Rule 45, but we must be aware that many other amendments which do not concern overseas have also been declared inadmissible, including those of the Government! I don't know if it's such as to reassure you, but it's the reality: this is due to the correct application of the law. An entire title of the bill is devoted to overseas, and most of the measures in this text apply to these territories, and it must not be forgotten – as you mentioned earlier, Mrs Maina Sage. Finally, I wanted to tell you how shocked I was by Mr. Ratenon's speech. It has been very virulent and such statements do not, I believe, meet the problems facing the overseas territories. Nothing will be settled by outrage or animosity. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups. – Mrs Maina Sage, rapporteur, also applauds]] He talked about apartheid, which is very serious. In an apartheid regime, whites and blacks do not speak to each other, can neither meet nor love each other; political opponents are arrested or even eliminated. I have too much respect for the ultramarine territories so as not to point out the completely unacceptable nature of such a speech, in a Chamber of the French Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u187	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u188	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-06-O1084.u189	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one thirty: Following the discussion of the bill on differentiation, decentralization, deconcentration and various measures to simplify local public action. The meeting is adjourned.
