ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u1	The next item is the debate on the proposal for a law to improve the protection of whistleblowers (No. 4398, 4663) and on the proposal for an organic law to strengthen the role of the Defender of Rights in alerting (No. 4375, 4664). The Conference of Presidents decided that these two texts would give rise to a common general discussion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u2	I call Mr Sylvain Waserman, Rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u3	Each and every one of us, who sit on these benches, have at one time or another, in one way or another, in one form or another, wanted to change the world a little, to advance our society and our right. To our extent, with our amendments or bills, we want to be useful and bring what we think is progress for democracy. That is what this is about today, ladies and gentlemen, because the point of the text we are studying is to give the whistleblowers their rightful place, guaranteeing them the protection of the law and the treatment of their alerts. Three years ago, I wrote a report to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe (PACE) and studied the various European rights in this field. I am convinced that alongside freedom of the press or the independence of justice, whistleblowers are a real pillar of our democratic systems. They reveal attacks on the public interest, sometimes attack powerful interests, expose their lives and that of their loved ones for a fight that they believe is right and necessary. They advance the rule of law because they reveal situations that hinder and weaken it. It does not happen a week without the news echoing an alert in the field of the environment or health, the fight against corruption, threats to our individual freedoms, security or digital drifts. Alerters play a decisive role, a role that will undoubtedly grow over the years. It is therefore essential to better protect whistleblowers from reprisals to which they may be subjected, to protect David against Goliath, to ensure that their alert is not futile. Our democracy will only be stronger, because the right to alert will become in the texts a fundamental right and in fact an accessible reality. Ladies and gentlemen, the text I am presenting to you is our text. It is written and worn by parliamentarians, which is rare for a text which also transposes a European directive. The Vice-President of the Council of State, when he welcomed me to give an account of his opinion, welcomed this because his institution is the legal counsel of the law factory and not only of the Government. He has provided us with many useful and enlightening recommendations, which we have largely taken into account. This text is also our text because it has fed on two parliamentary reports: that of the PACE I mentioned and that of our two colleagues Raphaël Gauvain and Olivier Marleix, who have done a remarkable job of analysing the forces and limits of current law, and in particular of the Sapin 2 law; It is within the limits of the law in force that the sources of the new laws must be drawn. This text is finally our text because it has been enriched by the participation of many of you, in particular our law commissioners. In addition to Olivier Marleix and Raphaël Gauvain, I would like to quote Cécile Untermaier, Alexandra Louis and Ugo Bernalicis – the latter is also the author of a first text on the subject, from which I inspired myself, parsimony but with interest. The text has also relied on the decisive expertise of the Assembly and the Ministry of Justice, a leading-edge expertise on complex legal issues that has paved the way for the legal innovations contained in this text, in particular in the field of the handling, during the proceedings, of the legal costs of the whistleblower by the opposing party. This text, finally, was built in the dialogue with civil society actors, some of whom are present in the forums: associations – I am thinking in particular of the Maison des lérateurs d'alert –, non-governmental organisations (NGOs), such as Transparency International, but also workers' unions and employers' organisations, all of which have contributed actively and constructively to our work. In short, at a time when some doubt the interest of a parliament, I would like to say to our fellow citizens who are convinced that the subject of whistleblowers is of major importance to democracy that this text has been conceived, written, piloted and enriched by their Members. We have been working on it for three years with perseverance, with the general interest as the only compass, because we have taken the measure of the stakes. How will this text advance our democracy, how will it give the whistleblowers their full place in our society? Well, if we adopt it, tomorrow they will no longer be forced to make a report in-house, within their society or organization – an obligation that today discourages more than one from acting. They will be able to use an external channel directly. They will have a specific list of independent authorities which may be seized and which will have an obligation to deal with their substantive alert within a certain period of time. Similarly, tomorrow, whistleblowers will no longer be liable civilly or criminally for having removed the confidential documents necessary to launch the alert. Tomorrow, they can be accompanied by facilitators, natural or legal persons – associations in particular – who will also benefit from some protection. Tomorrow, retaliating a whistleblower will be a criminal offence punishable heavily. Tomorrow, whistleblowers will be able to receive financial support in several forms. That is something that we have discussed at length in committee. In addition to the application of ordinary law, they may of course be awarded damages by the judge at the end of the proceedings. In addition, it will be possible, during the proceedings, to have their legal costs paid by the party who attacks them. Finally, as a result of our discussions in committee, we will discuss the possibility of granting them subsidies later on. Tomorrow, the Defender of Rights will see his role in the field of whistleblowers clarified. A real pivotal feature of the system, having an overall view of all alerts handled in France, it will be able to decide on the quality of a whistleblower in the sense that the law defines it. Ladies and gentlemen, if we vote on this text – and I say it in the light of the study of the various European rights that I have carried out – our right will be at the forefront of the protection of whistleblowers in Europe. In a European union that some members sometimes flout, to the point of betraying our essential democratic values, you will see that the way in which states recognize and protect whistleblowers will be a genuine democratic marker. The leaders who refuse to transpose this directive and consider the whistleblowers to be delectors who must be stifled and step by step would thus bring to light a conception of democracy and the rule of law that we do not want and fight against. [[Applause on all benches]] Colleagues, let us continue our work. Let us borrow the right ridge line to develop a right that, at each stage of the launch of an alert, is protective without being excessive. Our mission is noble and difficult. Noble because the cause of the whistleblowers is a marker for our democracy and because carrying a text like this from end to end over the long term honours our Parliament and its power of initiative. It is also difficult, because it is a matter of transposing a directive and articulating it with our national law, and the challenge is to devote the best of both worlds to the cause of whistleblowers and a more democratic and just society. This is more than an issue, and it is a real challenge that we all have to face.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u4	The Secretary of State for Youth and Engagement has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u5	In recent years, whistleblowers have gained a new place in public space. In France as in the rest of the world, this term has been popularized by a few media figures: Irène Frachon in the Mediator case, Edward Snowden in the NSA wiretapping case, or more recently Frances Haugen on the processing of information by certain social networks. These women and men question us: anticipating a risk or denouncing practices that they consider illegal, they reveal facts for the benefit of the public interest. But because these revelations may call into question the organizations in which they work or with which they are in contact, they expose them to the risk of reprisals. Discriminatory, dismissed and sometimes prosecuted, some of them suffer for months, even years, from professional difficulties and sometimes from human tragedies. Such a situation is not only the fate of the few media figures. Every day, employees, civil servants or ordinary citizens witness violations or threats to the public interest and face a well-known dilemma: to keep quiet and let them thrive or speak and risk reprisals. That is why the key objective of a text on whistleblowers is to protect them. Indeed, if it does not provide for effective protection, real and effective guarantees, a text on whistleblowers will be nothing but a hollow procedural device. We will see this during the examination of the articles, the heart and the very purpose of the bill that we are going to examine are to provide the whistleblowers with these guarantees and protection, and I am pleased that it is doing so in such an ambitious manner. However, if the revelation of criminal dangers or facts is in favor of the common good, certain warnings may also be malicious, ill-calibrated, vague or too wide a field. The risk would therefore be to contribute to the emergence of a society of suspicion, of "all against all". But we will see just now that the clear conditions required by the bill for legitimate protection allow a just and unambiguous border to be drawn. A text on whistleblowers is thus the place of a balance: it is a question of defining a framework for effectively collecting alerts without encouraging settlement of accounts, to grant effective protection but only to the benefit of virtuous behaviour. In order to achieve this balance, the texts we are going to examine do not come from a blank sheet. France has first gradually developed a number of specific mechanisms to launch alerts on specific subjects, such as tax matters or harassment at work. Above all, since the law of 9 December 2016 known as Sapin 2, France has experienced a general alert system that covers a very wide field. This pioneering law has inspired the European directive which we are going to transpose today, and it is this text that serves as the basis for the improvements provided for in the legislative proposals that we are going to examine. Thanks to the active support of the Government, the Directive of 23 October 2019 on the protection of persons who report violations of European Union law has in fact been very much inspired by French law, although it goes even further on certain aspects. The legislative proposals that we are going to examine will enable these European advances to be transposed into France. In this context, I would like to commend the remarkable work done by rapporteur Sylvain Waserman, both in terms of substance and method. It has been able to place its proposals within a complex normative framework. It has drawn up an ambitious and balanced text while maintaining the concern to transpose the directive precisely. To this end, he was able to draw on his personal experience, but also to feed on the ideas and concerns expressed by all stakeholders. The protection of whistleblowers is indeed a matter for our society as a whole, and the Government is pleased that all relevant actors have been able to take part in the debate. The Government itself has been involved in making it live, including through a major public consultation earlier this year, on the website of the Ministry of Justice. Dozens of citizens, trade unions, non-governmental organizations (NGOs), business representatives responded. They were thus able to express their expectations and proposals, which were made public in a synthesis. I would like to thank them, because their participation has fully contributed to the balance achieved in the text of the bills. First of all, these texts make it possible to incorporate the progress of the European directive into our law. Some of them deserve special attention. A first development concerns the accessibility of alert procedures. The law in force is based on the idea that an alert is treated more effectively in-house by the body directly concerned. This idea remains correct, but the provisions that she has inspired, by forcing an alerter to address her employer first, are probably excessive. It is only in the absence of due diligence by the latter, or in the event of serious and imminent danger, that the whistleblower may turn to the judicial authority, the administrative authority or a professional order. This hierarchy between internal and external alerts presents two difficulties. First, it requires the whistleblower in principle to address his or her supervisor, which may expose him or her to an increased risk of reprisal, especially in small structures. In addition, the criteria for the use of the external channel are complex and are still little known in practice. This complexity may have deprived some good faith whistleblowers of the protection they would have deserved. For example, the employee of a butcher shop wanted to issue an alert about violations of hygiene rules, but he did so directly with the administration, not with his employer. He found out and fired him. The dismissal was confirmed in court, because the employee, by not dragging his employer first, had failed to comply with the law. He was therefore unable to benefit from protection against dismissal. The Directive, taken up in Article 3 of the ordinary draft law, allows the hierarchy of alert channels to be abandoned and thus to ensure more complete protection for the authors. But it does not abandon the idea that an alert is a priori better dealt with internally. It calls for encouraging the use of the internal channel where it appears to be more effective, which will be done through regulation, in particular by actively promoting the channel to employees and agents. A second European step forward is to extend protection beyond the only whistleblower: from now on, its relatives, colleagues, related legal persons and anyone who helps it during the procedure – all the "facilitators" of the alert – will be able to benefit from the same protection. The aim is to draw a real circle of protection around the whistleblower and to break his isolation. But the legislative proposals before you do not simply transpose the directive: they provide for significant, ambitious further progress in line with the expectations expressed by society. The first improvement, to which the Government is very attached, is to simplify the landscape of warning devices. It is crucial because many people who wish to launch an alert have expressed their dismay at the complexity, and sometimes the inertia, that they are confronted with. In response, the text provides an accessible and demanding framework for dealing with alerts both internally and with external authorities. The latter will be clearly identified by decree in the Council of State so that the whistleblower knows who to turn to. In addition, the Ombudsman's competence is extended in order to be able to play his full role of counselling and guidance. However, this simplification is also essential for companies and entities that need to set up internal reporting mechanisms, as many of them are those for whom the combination of mechanisms leads to organisational difficulties. In response, the Government has prepared amendments – which can be supplemented at the regulatory level – to remove certain sectoral alert procedures and to harmonize others with the general scheme. The second significant improvement of the bill concerns the fight against gag procedures, which consist of using justice to intimidate or silence a whistleblower. In this regard, the text provides for several measures. For example, a whistleblower will be able to obtain from the judge, within a short period of time and from the beginning of the dispute, provisional treatment by his opponent of the costs of justice. In addition, gag procedures will be more severely punished. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, LR, Dem, SOC, GDR and IUD-I groups]] In conclusion, the European directive has put us under the obligation to improve on a few specific points, and in a limited field, our general alerting mechanism. Organic and ordinary legislative proposals go far beyond these few requirements: they provide a readable, efficient and simplified framework for dealing with alerts; they provide effective protection and guarantees to those who commit them; Above all, they clearly specify and reaffirm the French model drawn up by the Sapin 2 law: that of a fair balance allowing an effective protection to be granted to those who have the courage to defend the general interest. The Government will give its full support.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u6	I call Mrs Cécile Untermaier, Rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u7	First of all, I would like to acknowledge the way in which Sylvain Waserman worked: the bills were built in a trans-partisan manner, compiling all the texts that could be useful. In addition to the comments made by the rapporteur, let me stress the transparency in which the texts were drawn up. It seems to me that all governments could draw on this approach: we know how the bills were written and who was invited to discuss them. It is a very essential and innovative dimension. The very concept of a whistleblower dates back to the 19th century. The United States is a precursor. It has developed more under the impetus of the European Union, the United Kingdom or other Member States than under France, but we have caught up with the Sapin 2 law. Mr rapporteur, I welcome the decision not to undermine the progress made: by applying the principle of non-regression contained in the directive, you have not hesitated to overtranspose it in order to maintain the concept of a whistleblower in the dimension required by the Sapin 2 law. These texts make it possible to go further than the Directive; We welcome this will. Bills can be summarized in three major points. First of all, they are redefining the whistleblower: the notion of unselfishness leaves room for direct financial contribution. I shared our group's few reservations while understanding the objective of avoiding "premium hunters". During his hearing, Frances Haugen mentioned the possibility of paying whistleblowers with donations; We wondered if the concept of direct financial contribution included them. Secondly, the procedure is clear with an internal and external route. After one of these channels has been exhausted, public disclosure may take place. This is a way of reassuring businesses and administrations. Moreover, putting an end to the hierarchy between internal and external channels is virtuous: this will encourage businesses and administrations to establish an internal channel. Finally, the texts provide enhanced protection for whistleblowers and facilitators. It is the very purpose of the law to prevent them, working for the general interest, from being crushed by forces against which they do not have the means to fight. The whistleblower will be supported against gag proceedings and reprisals, will be able to use a facilitator and will receive legal assistance at the start of trials. The reservations against the texts are partly due to the peak line that you have decided to hold, Mr rapporteur: to protect natural persons and not legal persons. However, it is the association that will allow the whistleblower to be truly protected, giving him the opportunity to keep anonymity – even if it would of course be lifted in the context of a judicial procedure. It would probably also be necessary to set up a fund – I think you agree – to compensate for the loss of income and to compensate for the damage caused. We therefore look forward to developments regarding associations. I agree that this is not included in the directive, but it will have to be included in a later text. I would remind you that it is in principle up to the administration to monitor the proper application of the rules. I am thinking in particular of the Directorate-General for Competition, Consumer Affairs and Fraud Prevention (DGCCRF), which is doing a remarkable job – this was also the case in the field of tendering, but now it can no longer control them due to lack of staff and resources. I am still thinking of fiscal and customs controls. The whistleblower therefore does not have to replace the State and should not be used as a pretext for disengagement from its monitoring tasks, which are essential. [[Applause on the benches of the SOC group and on a few benches of the LaREM group. – The rapporteur also applauds]] Let me conclude by saying that ethical culture must be disseminated intelligently. The independence of the ethics officer vis-à-vis the employer must precisely enable him to support the whistleblowers.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u8	In the general debate, Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u9	The two texts we are discussing are certainly texts of progress, and the subject is important for any State with a democratic aim or purpose. After in France the law of 9 December 2016 gave a first definition of the whistleblower, the 2019 directive laid down a common framework to protect persons reporting a violation of European Union law. In this respect, the Union's rules are based on the work of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, where I, like the rapporteur, have the honour of sitting. The principle is simple, even if its application is sometimes a little subtle: to protect the person who denounces a disproportionate infringement of the law, of the public interest or of the rights of persons. This is true in sensitive areas such as food, the environment, health and tax contributions. The texts before us are capable of significantly improving our legislation. On the one hand, they give a broader and more appropriate definition of whistleblowers, removing the ambiguous notion of self-interest. On the other hand, internal and external channels are better distinguished and clarified – the whistleblower can freely choose between them – and obligations are set for response times. At the same time, increased criminal and civil penalties are established against those who disclose the identity of whistleblowers, seek to silence them or launch abusive procedures against them. I will make a first observation about the increased role given to the Defender of Rights. In 2019, I made the following observation before the PACE: knowing that many states – whether they belong to the European Union or not – already have a non-judicial and independent national human rights structure (NHRS), the establishment of an authority for the defence of whistleblowers in each Member State could be based on these structures whose task is precisely to protect the rights of citizens, including the right to know, the right to request the assistance and intervention of the public authorities, or the right to request the application of the precautionary principle. I am therefore pleased that the two texts we are examining establish such a connection by extending the prerogatives of the Defender of Rights: the latter will have to direct the whistleblower to the authority most able to deal with his report, designate one if necessary and inform the author of the follow-up to this report. However, we regret once again that there are some shortcomings in both texts, although they may be an opportunity to make further progress. This is the case for legal persons: NGOs or trade unions cannot be considered as whistleblowers, this status being reserved only for natural persons, employees and public officials. In the opinion of some whistleblowers themselves, however, the legal commitment of a legal person would allow other potential whistleblowers to take the lead. With regard to financial assistance to whistleblowers, Article 7 provides for measures to ensure the conversion of those who have previously had to resign as a result of their initiative, while Article 8 provides for the protection of the administrative judge for public officials who alert. Article 9 creates an incentive for the competent external authorities to provide financial and psychological support to whistleblowers. But an incentive is not an obligation, and whistleblowers, just as rights organisations, say: money is the nerve of war. Indeed, how can we resist a rich organization, when we are alone and modest and must go to justice? At the very least, ad hoc monitoring of the protection of whistleblowers, legislation and operational principles to be applied should be a useful complement to observe the extent to which the incentive will work. Finally, article 11 makes a step forward: it provides that "in the course of a proceeding concerning an infringement of business secrecy, the secrecy [is] not enforceable when its acquisition, use or disclosure has taken place... in order to reveal, for the purpose of protecting the general interest and in good faith, an illegal activity". [[Marie-George Buffet applauds]] In view of all these elements and all the progress promised by the two texts, and despite the limitations that we will have the opportunity to recall – we hope that the Assembly will be able to go a little further by examining them – the Socialist and related group will give them its full support.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u10	Mrs Alexandra Louis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u11	What is involved in the two bills we are considering today is not just the protection of whistleblowers: it is the protection of our democracy and our rule of law; It is our responsibility to address the major issues of the twenty-first century and the challenges they invite us to address. Thus, to those who endanger their careers, their families, sometimes their lives, often in the service of the general interest, we must provide the assurance that the law will be on their side. Since 2016, thanks to the Sapin 2 law, France has been at the forefront of European and global legislation in this field. Nevertheless, there are still many opportunities for improvement, as pointed out in 2019 by a report by the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, produced by the author and rapporteur of the texts discussed today, Sylvain Waserman, whose work I would like to commend. Two years ago, with my colleagues Olivier Becht and Dimitri Houbron, we voted with conviction in favour of this report, and it is logical that we will support the legislative proposals presented today in the House. They transpose the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 October 2019 on the protection of persons reporting violations of Union law, which harmonises the protection of whistleblowers in the European Union. On many points, however, they go further than European law: for example, while the directive included only natural persons, legal persons could be regarded as "facilitators" and benefit from the related protections. More specifically, through the proposal for an ordinary law to improve the protection of whistleblowers, we are broadening the legal definition of whistleblowers. Above all, we remove the obligation to issue the alert first internally, so that the competent authorities, and even the press – in case of imminent danger – can be seized as soon as possible. In addition, we strengthen the anonymity of those who report; it can only be lifted with their consent. Even more so, we are introducing a principle of privilege that applies to the most favourable devices for whistleblowers. But to enable them to play their part, we must also fight any form of reprisal, and we know how many of them can be. Thus, we list all actions that can be considered intimidation or revenge when the perpetrator is unable to prove their legitimacy. Moreover, in order to do justice to the perpetrators, they must not only be protected; they must also be supported. That is why we are allowing the judge to grant them a provision for trial costs, which will be the responsibility of the perpetrators of unfair trials. In the same spirit, we facilitate the professional reintegration of whistleblowers: they will be able to see their personal training account (CPF) abounded by their employer after a procedure to the prud'hommes, but also benefit from financial and psychological support organised by the competent external authorities. Finally, public authorities must be the first to be exemplary on such subjects. We therefore clearly acknowledge the fact that a public official can benefit from the protective measures applicable to whistleblowers and refer the matter to the administrative judge by way of an interim release, if his right to alert is called into question. I would also like to thank the Committee on Laws for having adopted an amendment by the Group of the European Liberal, Democratic and Reformist Party, which excludes only documents covered by solicitors' professional secrecy, not all relations between lawyers and their clients, from the alert regime. Consequentially, the proposed organic law can have major implications for whistleblowers and their loved ones. The Defender of Rights, whose existence and functioning are systematically welcomed at the international level, will be the ideal benchmark for those wishing to make a report. Its action will be fully aligned with the progress made by the ordinary law, since it will be able to guide alerts, deal with those within its jurisdiction and be seized by any person to give an opinion on its status as a whistleblower. Finally, I would like to add that the Group of the European People's Party and the other groups of the majority have tabled an amendment which, if adopted – which I hope – will allow the judge to allocate a provision for whistleblowers whose financial situation would have seriously deteriorated as a result of an alert. It's a subject that has been very busy with us in the law committee. [[Applause on the benches of the groups Actir ens and Dem and on a few benches of the group LaREM]] In conclusion, I would like to point out that in the European Union, the lack of protection for whistleblowers costs EUR 6 to 10 billion every year on public procurement alone. In view of this, we can only be satisfied with the broad consensus in favour of more effective, fair and comprehensive protection for them. The Group of the European People's Party, co-signatory to the two bills, will obviously vote with conviction.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u12	Mr Philippe Dunoyer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u13	By their courage, determination and perseverance, by their fierce will to stop harmful, illegal or contrary to the general interest, whistleblowers are, in a way, resistors of modern times, essential to the proper functioning of our democracy. By reporting or divulging information that can protect our society, they courageously take action that they know can have serious consequences for their professional and personal lives. By denouncing certain behaviour, they are exposed to reprisals and, potentially, to prosecution for violation of a secret protected by law or for defamation. It is therefore up to us, as legislators, to stand by them and to strengthen their protection, which is already enshrined in legislation but which is still insufficient. The Sapin 2 law had made significant progress by merging the many existing alert regimes and strengthening the related rights, while requiring whistleblowers to follow specific rules and comply with certain procedures. These rules and procedures, too precise and certainly too framed, may have proved ineffective; This has made it necessary to change our legislative arsenal. It might seem counter-intuitive to require the whistleblower to begin by exposing, within the company or administration in which he works, the behaviour he intended to denounce within that same company or administration. The lack of hierarchy of channels and the choice of an internal or external alert were necessary corrections, guaranteeing the freedom which must be fully available to whistleblowers. The bill also allows us to go further to limit reprisals, including gag procedures, while engaging in the complex exercise of transposing the European Directive of 23 October 2019. It strikes a better balance between the legitimate protection of whistleblowers and the necessary supervision of their means of action. Like some of our colleagues, however, we wanted to provide – by means of amendments – some guarantees and clarifications to this text, in particular to ensure the impartiality of the alert channels or internal references designated to collect alerts in certain small legal entities under public or private law, or to provide information campaigns on reporting procedures for agents and employees of such entities; We have also provided details of the closure of alert procedures, in particular when the alert is not followed up. Finally, I wanted to draw your attention, Mr rapporteur, to the application of the bill to certain territories of the Republic, in particular New Caledonia and, certainly, French Polynesia. Like the Sapin 2 law before it and despite the changes it introduces, its Article 12A will not allow the full application of the protective provisions of whistleblowers in territories exercising jurisdiction, for example in matters of labour law or commercial law. It was of course up to the institutions of those Territories, such as the Congress of New Caledonia, to adopt the necessary measures. However, it seems to me essential to devote time to identifying the provisions which fall within the competence of the State and those which fall within the scope of local jurisdiction. As such, it is already certain that the provisions of Articles 3a, 6 and 11, which fall within the competence of the territories referred to, will not apply to them, and the question also arises with regard to certain provisions of Article 3. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-I group and on a few benches of the LaREM group]] I had tabled an amendment providing for an authorization to legislate by order, within 18 months of the enactment of the future law, in order to allow, if necessary, the adaptation of its provisions to New Caledonia. Such a proposal was not new: it was based on the mechanism that we recently adopted when the Bioethics Act was passed. Unfortunately, my amendment was declared inadmissible; I regret this because if we do not amend Article 12a, the protection of whistleblowers will not be uniform throughout the territory of the Republic. I hope, Mr rapporteur and the Secretary of State, that we will be able to change the text on this point. However, the IDU and independent group will naturally and with conviction vote in favour of the two bills.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u14	Mr Paul Molac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u15	In France, until 2016, the protection afforded to whistleblowers was limited: it was applied only in a sectoral way, in particular to combat corruption and conflicts of interest, or to protect health or the environment. The Sapin 2 law introduced the status of whistleblower, giving it a definition. Any person who reveals a violation of the law or a threat to the general interest, regardless of his or her sector of activity, is now included in this category. Such a definition is particularly broad: it allows for a cross-section of all situations. Thus, our country has one of the best protections in this field. This proposal for a law, which transposes a European directive, further enhances this protection. It goes further than the directive in question and in particular makes it possible to overcome the shortcomings of the Sapin 2 law, which we welcome. Indeed, there are several salutary advances in the text. First of all, it extends protection to those who provide assistance to whistleblowers, known as "facilitators". These people – who can also be legal persons, most often NGOs – play a crucial role in the dissemination of the alert. It is therefore essential to give them more effective protection. Next, the bill removes the hierarchy of reporting channels. In other words, the alert can now be made directly to an external authority and not only internally. It may even, under certain conditions, be broadcast publicly. Such a measure is welcome as it will facilitate the dissemination of the alert in the event of internal pressure. The text also clarifies the use of authorities competent for the reception and treatment of alerts. The choice of the Defender of Rights as the authority to guide alerts seems particularly relevant to us. It reaffirms the role of such an institution in our democracy. Many countries are giving us this independent administrative authority, whose importance will be strengthened tomorrow thanks to the bill. Finally, the text reinforces the provisions aimed at protecting whistleblowers and those who assist them, including by granting criminal immunity to whistleblowers. These measures are necessary to ensure the effective protection of whistleblowers, but also of those who assist them, over the long term. Consideration of the bill in committee also clarified some points and, in particular, clarified the reporting procedures. However, the text could have gone further and we will be presenting amendments proposing measures which we believe are important. It would thus be relevant to include non-profit legal persons, NGOs, in the definition of whistleblowers, without limiting it to natural persons. Indeed, many whistleblowers want to remain anonymous and NGOs could relay their alerts. It would therefore be justified for associations to enjoy the same level of protection as natural persons. We will introduce an amendment to allow facilitating NGOs to replace whistleblowers to disseminate the report. We also want to better protect the sources of whistleblowers. We will therefore propose, through several amendments, to ensure that legal persons facilitating the protection of the confidentiality of their sources are protected. Finally, like other political groups, we propose granting refugee status to foreign whistleblowers. In order to ensure effective protection of whistleblowers, the Government would honour the granting of political asylum to those most at risk in the world and calling on France. That is the meaning of the motion for a resolution signed yesterday by some 40 Members from all walks of life, including several Members of the Libertés et Territoires Group. Let us recall that Julian Assange and Edward Snowden have repeatedly reiterated their wish to be welcomed by France. [[Applause on the benches of the LT group]] In the end, the Liberties and Territories Group will vote in favour of the bill. We particularly thank Sylvain Waserman for his excellent work and we hope that this text will allow more citizens facing major dysfunctions, within the state or large companies, to step in and dare to express themselves without fear of reprisals. Our democracy would emerge strengthened!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u16	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u17	I am pleased to speak in the gallery to speak on this bill! Indeed, this text is the culmination of a long-standing approach, both by Mr Waserman, as rapporteur of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Human Rights of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, but also by La France insoumise, since I defended, in March 2020, during the parliamentary niche of our group, the bill aimed at the effective protection of launchers and whistleblowers, whose aim was to transpose into our national law the directive of 23 October 2019. It was a bit strange and unusual for such a transposition to be proposed on the occasion of the parliamentary niche of an opposition party, in this case the group La France insoumis, known for its scepticism towards the European institutions. However, this directive was a clear step forward for all those who issue alerts. Because I had a long exchange with her and because her action was decisive for the cause of the whistleblowers, I want to begin by paying tribute to my comrade Céline Boussé, who denounced the abuse of children she had attended at the medical-educational institute that employed her. I salute his courage and determination. In her fight, she went through all the steps that the whistleblowers go through and through the most difficult, when you are at the bottom of the hole, facing yourself, psychologically weakened and wondering if the game is worth it. I thank her, and with her Denis, Françoise, Antoine, Amar: all the whistleblowers I think, who did not wait for these bills to act, will recognize each other. But if we are here today, it is precisely to decide on this text that will better protect them tomorrow. We have only five minutes of speaking time and I have been talking for more than a minute, so I will be a little quick in my speech, I am sorry. First of all, I would like to refer to the amendments which were considered inadmissible, but which concerned matters of importance to whistleblowers, which unfortunately cannot be discussed. I will start with the inadmissibility decisions under Article 45 of the Constitution on amendments considered as horsemen. The Group of the European People's Party had proposed an amendment aimed at introducing the obligation for structures which receive alerts to orient those who, in their view, are not whistleblowers but who are weakened by serious psychological suffering. This amendment was considered a horseman. I repeat, it is not acceptable to say to those who issue alerts and who manifest great suffering: "You're not a whistleblower: circulate, there's nothing to see. When the time comes, these people will have to be taken into consideration. Similarly, it seems essential to reform the framework of the administrative investigation carried out after an alert. As we know, this investigation is sometimes opaque and does not always respect the principle of adversariality. However, reprisals against whistleblowers, especially when they are public servants, are frequent. Hierarchical officials take advantage of the opacity of the framework of the administrative investigation to attack them. With regard to the inadmissibility decisions taken under Article 40 on amendments which are considered to aggravate public charges, I am not sure that this reason is really justified with regard to our amendment, which proposed that not only psychological but also medical-psychological support be provided for whistleblowers. I explained this to myself in committee: the psychic has an impact on the somatic. Because of their psychological suffering, it is not uncommon for whistleblowers to develop other pathologies, hence the need for complete care, to allow them to assume sometimes exorbitant medical costs. If the Government wished to take up this amendment in another way, we would be happy to agree to it. I also regret that there is no provision for financial relief. This would have prevented us from having to table amendments, which were considered inadmissible under Article 40 – which says financial aid, obviously says money. Let us hope that the Senate will make improvements to the text in this area, so that an effective mechanism can come into force tomorrow. I had proposed – as I recall, although this measure is not unanimous – that the Commission for the Compensation of Victims of Crime (CIVI) should be given new competence to assess past and future damage to whistleblowers. The complexity of their situation lies precisely in the fact that they cannot be expected to act and suffer harm in order to protect them – in this case, it would be far too late. I shall conclude with two remarks. Firstly, we must ensure that, when we consider the amendments, we give priority to effective implementation measures. It is not simply a question of introducing a new right; We must foresee its concrete and real translation. After the promulgation of the Sapin 2 law, many whistleblowers regretted the late or unsatisfactory responses they received after having referred the case to the Defender of Rights. They were then told that they had not complied with the procedure or that there was no financial assistance available. In any event, without the actual effectiveness of the measures contained in it, the bill cannot be of quality and can truly protect whistleblowers. My second point concerns foreign whistleblowers. Julian Assange's father, whom we received yesterday in the National Assembly, once again urged us to welcome his son to France. Our country would honor to offer Julian Assange the right of asylum. The amendment we tabled in committee for such an initiative has been taken up by several of our colleagues.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u18	Please conclude, Mr. Bernalicis.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u19	I hope that it will be adopted, because all whistleblowers deserve protection in the interests of democracy.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u20	Mrs Marie-George Buffet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u21	I would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for his work. The action of launchers and whistleblowers represents a new form of control of citizens at the service of the values of the Republic – as you said, rapporteur, launchers and whistleblowers constitute a new pillar of our Republic. Our role is to encourage and protect those men and women who denounce those who, knowingly, commit acts contrary to our laws and principles. Our compatriots express an ever greater need for transparency, ethics and probity on the part of public institutions, as well as private entities. We regularly observe this as part of our parliamentary activity: confidence between public officials and private officials has dissipated. However, the exercise of responsibility and respect for the laws of the Republic do not go hand in hand. Launchers and whistleblowers are useful because there are black zones that escape the rules that are supposed to be imposed on everyone. Impunity has no place anywhere, but opposing it is a difficult act. Let's make it clear, we don't improvise. Giving the alert, daring to make a report, is not an anomalous act as it can have irreversible consequences on the daily life of the whistleblower and his or her loved ones. It is exposed to reprisals and unjustified procedures, sometimes personal attacks and denigration, which aim to disqualify whistleblowers and deter others from speaking out to enforce the law. The two bills before us today aim to better protect men and women who make the courageous choice to reveal serious facts. Because the proceedings against whistleblowers are among the first weapons used to gag them, I welcome the provisions adopted by the rapporteur to sanction their use and dissuade their perpetrators from using them. Ensuring that whistleblowers will not be subjected to reprisals is one of the most essential advances in these texts. The recognition of legal persons – associations, NGOs and trade unions – in their role of supporting whistleblowers is also a big step, but we want them to enjoy the same protections as natural persons. These facilitators must be able to replace launchers and whistleblowers without any form of repression. While the bill improves their protection, some whistleblowers aspire to maintain anonymity. We should give them this opportunity by better protecting associations that take responsibility for relaying their reports. We have tabled several amendments to this effect. Thus, we believe that an alert should be issued through a journalist, without going through the internal reporting channel or through an external authority. The proposal for a law to improve the protection of whistleblowers marks the end of the hierarchy of reporting channels, which is to be welcomed. The obligation to refer an internal alert body or the supervisor did not contribute to encouraging the alert, since the risk of reprisals was too high. However, if the internal reporting channels are more effective and truly independent, they could be a solution for whistleblowers. It is therefore necessary to establish a status as a "protected employee" in line with the provisions already laid down in labour law. Furthermore, although the definition of a whistleblower has been clarified, it seems important to us to add that if the whistleblower acts, it is that he has reasonable grounds to believe that the facts he denounces are serious and deserve to be reported. Sometimes, due to a lack of information, an alert may prove to be unfounded. Adopting a broader definition would protect men and women who, in good faith, had been wrong and prevent them from suffering damage as a result of their error. Finally, strengthening the role of the Defender of Rights makes sense only if we provide it with the means necessary for its proper functioning. The Group of the Democratic and Republican Left will try to make some amendments to the bill aimed at improving the protection of whistleblowers by defending amendments resulting from the recommendations of the House of whistleblowers. However, he welcomed the progress made by the two texts and would vote in favour of them. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and SOC groups]] A few words to finish: so that our compatriots are really involved in the choices that concern their daily lives and the entire nation, the whistleblowers call us to rethink our Republic!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u22	Mr Raphaël Gauvain has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u23	Before the end of the year, France must transpose the European Directive on the protection of whistleblowers. The objective is to ensure effective protection of persons who, having obtained information in a professional context on violations of Union law, report or make it public.This Directive concerns Union law. But it is an opportunity for us to strengthen our legal arsenal in this area and to improve the status of whistleblowers as designed, drafted and adopted by the Sapin 2 law of 2016. This law undoubtedly represents a real break-up. So far, we have known a dispersal of protection regimes. Some companies had put in place platforms for collecting alerts under pressure from foreign legislation, but without specific guarantees of confidentiality or protection against reprisals. These devices were unreadable and did not induce revelations. Sapin 2 has created a single regime that applies in all areas. The aim was both to recognize the role of whistleblowers, to accompany them and to prohibit reprisals against them, while guiding revelations. The law has defined a real status of the whistleblower, including rights but also duties. It has enabled France to reach the highest standards on this issue. Moreover, it was the Sapin 2 law which, at the initiative of France, inspired the directive very broadly. Earlier this year, together with my opposition colleague Olivier Marleix, we conducted an evaluation of the implementation of the Sapin 2 law. The results are nuanced. There is a paradox: the law encourages whistleblowers to report, but in fact it fails to protect the perpetrators effectively. All too often, whistleblowers are still victims of reprisals, and many of them face financial difficulties when they have sacrificed their professional, and sometimes personal, lives to the public interest. Above all, practice has shown that the legal protection of whistleblowers is subject to demanding criteria, including disinterestingness and the obligation to go through the internal channel as a matter of priority. As a result, whistleblowers fear exposure and lack effective government support. Our report on the evaluation of the Sapin 2 law contained a number of proposals which have been widely taken up by the rapporteur, of which I also want to commend the consensual work which will enable this text to be adopted. This applies in particular to the criteria for the admissibility of alerts and self-interest, and especially to the problem of financial support for whistleblowers, particularly in case of gag procedures. We have discussed this at length in committee and the Secretary of State has just discussed it. The term gag procedures refers to the strategy by which the company, the administration or the person to whom the alert relates multiply judicial proceedings with the sole aim of destabilising the whistleblower. This is an extremely important point. During the preparation of our evaluation report on the Sapin 2 law, many of the people interviewed alerted us about the difficulties faced by whistleblowers due to these procedures and the total lack of supervision and support for whistleblowers. The text already provides for a number of mechanisms: it opens up the possibility for the judge to impose a dissuasive civil fine against the author of the gag proceedings or to decide during the proceedings to charge the author of these proceedings the costs of a lawyer for the whistleblower, which is extremely important. We must go further, as we have seen in the Law Committee. The La République en marche group will propose, by amendment, that the court may grant to the whistleblower, to the author of the gags proceedings and during the judicial proceedings, additional financial assistance to cover the costs of lawyers provided for in the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u24	Please close.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u25	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] The debates in committee have shown that this bill is a consensus in our assembly. I am very pleased and very proud to participate in this debate today. Effective protection of whistleblowers is a democratic issue of transparency, capable of restoring citizens' confidence in public action.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u26	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u27	Mr Olivier Marleix has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u28	The Sapin 2 law, by introducing into our law the expression of a whistleblower, has given a fair recognition to these women and men who, in their soul and conscience, and most often in spite of their own interests, who would encourage them to remain silent, find the courage to denounce a scandal whose disclosure is of general interest. Under this law, the whistleblower can no longer be regarded by society as a delator, often risked being brandished, but rather as a person whose sense of honor, ethics, obliges him to act against sometimes very powerful interests. It is impossible not to mention here Irène Frachon, who revealed the risks of the Mediator, or Stéphanie Gibaud, who unveiled illegal practices of UBS – a bank which, thanks to it, will be fined 3.7 billion euros. Unfortunately, others have had more difficulty making themselves heard: Denis Breteau at the SNCF or Françoise Nicolas at the Quai d'Orsay. To these whistleblowers, subject to threats, intimidation, sometimes real campaigns of denigration and destabilization, victims of sanctions aimed at discrediting them, we must provide genuine protection. On this point, we recognize, unfortunately, that the Sapin 2 law has not been sufficiently effective. It even created an ambiguous situation by giving the illusion that there was protection when the mechanisms to ensure its effectiveness did not work. If the protection must be commensurate with the risks that these people are taking, it cannot give up a certain degree of rigour. From this point of view, I welcome the balance found by the rapporteur. Under no circumstances is it a question of encouraging our compatriots to establish themselves as independent vigilantes. Five years after the adoption of the Sapin 2 law, we are therefore submitting the work on the profession, because the European Union obliges us to transpose the 2018 directive on the protection of persons who report violations of EU law. It imposes enhanced protection in relation to French law, but limited to the competences of the Union. States must therefore incorporate European provisions into the status of whistleblowers, but they are also encouraged by the directive to go beyond EU competence. This is the path chosen in this bill, and it is a good thing. The text tends to correct the deficiencies of the Sapin 2 law noted in the evaluation report that we wrote with Raphaël Gauvain. I am pleased that our proposals can be implemented as quickly as possible. Among these, I note the withdrawal of the criterion of disinterest, the application of which led to the loss of the quality of the whistleblower for the simple contestation of a dismissal to the prud'hommes; the easing of the hierarchy of information channels and the possibility of directly seizing the external authorities; the obligation to inform the whistleblower of the follow-up given to his alert; the establishment of a dissuasive civil sanction for all gag proceedings against whistleblowers and, finally, the legal security of the status of confidential information collected by the whistleblower. Remains the important issue of compensation for the whistleblower when faced with numerous gag procedures and his personal material situation is severely degraded. More generally, the balance found by the rapporteur should be welcomed. The directive allowed legal persons – associations and trade unions – to be recognised as whistleblowers, a view which the text did not adopt. I welcome this: the whistleblower must remain a natural person, it is to him that we owe this particular protection. It can only be assisted by associations or legal persons. We will thus avoid the pitfall of a form of professionalisation of the alert by legal persons and their possible employees. Nevertheless, the role entrusted to the associations, in my view, still requires some clarification, especially with regard to their responsibility for secrecy and the lifting of their civil liability when acting in support of a whistleblower. The proposed organic law establishes the Defender of Rights as a reference authority to certify the status of whistleblower. It's a major contribution. The Defender of Rights must be the effective protector and certify that the person is in an alert approach. [[Applause on the benches of the LR and IDU-I groups. – Mr Raphaël Gauvain and the rapporteur also applaud]] If we agree with everything in the text, we can regret what is not in it. The great update that Sapin 2 would have deserved will not take place. I regret the Government's lack of commitment to improving mechanisms for preventing corruption.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u29	Mr Philippe Latomb has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u30	In recent years, whistleblowers have become essential and indispensable actors in the protection of our fundamental freedoms. Social networks give them additional interest, as evidenced by the Facebook Files case. It is therefore imperative to ensure a high level of protection for whistleblowers, these real visions of democracy. France has for several years been at the forefront of this issue thanks to the Sapin 2 law of 9 December 2016, which marked a turning point in making the right of alert a real fundamental freedom. In the name of transparency and the preservation of rights and freedoms, it is now essential to ensure that our right is brought up to date. That is why I would like on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists to welcome Sylvain Waserman's remarkable work on this subject. Its proposals for a law – ordinary and organic – will help to create a clear and coherent legal framework that will enable France again to live up to the challenges related to the protection of the right of alert, in particular through the work of refinement and precision carried out in committee. The text allows for the transposition of the Directive of 25 September 2019, which lays down a common basis for the protection of whistleblowers reporting a violation of European Union law. This directive is undoubtedly a step forward and the Council of State considers that the provisions envisaged in the draft law allow for a level of protection for whistleblowers in accordance with what it requires, which is not the case with the law in force. Furthermore, the legislative proposals have the merit of not restricting protection to the powers of the European Union. The text thus adopts a broad definition of whistleblowers, more adapted to the realities and challenges of their protection, in particular because it removes the ambiguous notion of self-interest and specifies that they act to denounce certain violations of the law, essentially a crime, an offence or a breach of an international or European norm. The text also provides for clarification of the functioning of internal and external reporting channels, the choice of which is free. Time-limit requirements for the whistleblower will be formalized by decree: seven days to acknowledge receipt, three to six months to process the alert. It is also planned to significantly strengthen the protection of whistleblowers with criminal or civil sanctions against those who disclose their identity, aim to stifle the alert or bury whistleblowers under abusive procedures. Better recognition and protection are introduced for those accompanying the whistleblower and can thus be exposed because they have played an active role in alert reporting. New tools are being made available to the judiciary to facilitate the defence of the rights of whistleblowers, as well as their professional conversion if necessary. The proposal for an organic law aims to strengthen the role of the Defender of Rights in the protection of whistleblowers by developing its information and guidance mission. The Group of the European People's Party supported the rapporteur's work ahead of these bills, but also his amendments in committee. They have made it possible to provide useful clarifications to the text, in particular by clarifying the different reporting channels, strengthening the guarantees given to whistleblowers, better defining the terms used in accordance with the Directive and ensuring better protection of personal data. These additions help to respond to the recommendations of the Council of State and to ensure a more legal soundness of the text, in particular by redacting the proposal for an organic law of the provisions aimed at enabling the Defender of Rights to deal with an alert himself. The Group of the European People's Party has also tabled a joint amendment with the majority and the rapporteur in order to extend the provision that can be paid to the whistleblower to cover the needs resulting from a serious deterioration in its financial situation. Such an addition will allow more effective protection of whistleblowers in a tense professional context. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group]] Our group will vote in favour of the legislative proposals of our colleague Sylvain Waserman.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u31	Mrs Catherine Pujol has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u32	The whistleblowers have become indispensable actors in the protection of our fundamental freedoms. Because they have the courage to report wrongdoing, we have to be with them. In France, the Sapin 2 law has created a status of whistleblower with rights, such as legal accompaniment or protection against reprisals, but also duties, such as the protection of the privacy of the persons in question and the supervision of the channels of revelation. Such provisions were necessary to defend whistleblowers against the retaliatory measures to which they were exposed – dismissal, physical threats, damage to the safety of their families, or grudging prosecutions, these abusive and knowingly ruinous judicial procedures. The Sapin 2 law had the merit of putting forward the notion of a whistleblower by making the right of alert a fundamental freedom. France has thus become a pioneer in the transparency of public life and in the fight against corruption. However, there were many ambiguities and shortcomings in the Act: if the perpetrators were finally taken into account, their effective protection was inadequate. As a result, the proposed mechanism remains too little used, as it is complex and ultimately exposes whistleblowers to particularly high personal, legal and financial risks. So far, the law has encouraged potential whistleblowers to act, while paradoxically endangering them by protecting them only inadequately from the inevitable consequences of their actions. The proposed law and the proposed organic law before us have the merit of trying to fill the many gaps in the Sapin 2 system. I am thinking in particular of the removal of the criterion of disinterest, which created situations in which whistleblowers were deprived of protection if, for example, they had engaged in proceedings before the workers. The protection of natural and legal persons in connection with the whistleblower is another welcome step forward: it will enable them to effectively accompany whistleblowers, while reducing the risk of reprisals. The right of alert, when it is not motivated by particular interests, but by the general interest, is an extension of freedom of expression, so dear to us and unfortunately too often hindered. From now on, our attention to whistleblowers must be sustained. Let us not forget that they do not just sound the alarm bell, but find themselves in the front line faced with sometimes very powerful interests. The current reporting procedure is still too cumbersome: it is only if the reporting carried out by hierarchical means is not dealt with diligently, within a reasonable period of time, that it can be addressed to the administrative, judicial or ordinal authority. It would be wise to create the possibility of an extraordinary alert, brought to the attention of a parliamentary committee of the National Assembly or the Senate, whose sessions are public and broadcast live on the Internet. In conclusion, it is France's honour to provide material and legal protection to those who dare to rise, at the risk of disrupting their lives and those of their loved ones, in the name of the general interest. This law represents a welcome step forward, but much remains to be done to ensure better protection for whistleblowers.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u33	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u34	To hear the various interventions, the feeling is that this text represents real progress. I would like to welcome the work that has been going on for a long time, and to recall that it is very rare for a European directive to be transposed through a bill. I also intend to remove a few doubts which I have taken note of. Mrs Untermaier, you are concerned that donations to whistleblowers could be subject to a ban on any financial contribution associated with the process. I want to reassure you: donations made a posteriori will not fall on the blow of the ban. We will therefore make it clear that the prohibition of any financial contribution is intended solely to prohibit the remuneration of whistleblowers. In addition to welcoming the fact that Members from all sides welcome the text, which will be designed to be improved in our debates, I wanted to give this first answer.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u35	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u36	First of all, in the text of the committee, I call the articles of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u37	I have before me five amendments, Nos 4, 63, 31, 62 and 102, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 4 and 63 and Nos 31, 62 and 102 are identical. I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 4.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u38	We are directly involved in the matter, since it is a matter of including legal persons in the definition of whistleblowers. In order to ensure that all the Members present here have in mind all the arguments for the recognition of this status to legal persons, I repeat what I indicated in committee: a legal person cannot of course enjoy the same protections as a natural person. This does not mean, however, that it should not be protected – the text also provides for certain measures against them. However, by explicitly stating that a whistleblower can only be a natural person, women and men who are aware of information are told that it is their skin that they must put on the table – that it is their life, their body, their mind that they must expose – in order to be recognized as whistleblowers. Frances Haugen, a former Facebook executive, made it clear during his hearing that while many of his colleagues found the same facts as she, they were not in a position to launch the alert, for many reasons – because it is a difficult step, because they would have been subjected to reprisals, etc. We are therefore depriving ourselves, as legislators and political actors, of information that we could have had access to had legal persons been recognised as whistleblowers. Anyway, what's going on in practice? The information is still disseminated through other channels, whose functioning is not always satisfactory – I am thinking of the press or social networks, on which information is sometimes divulged in a somewhat chaotic way. I therefore believe that it is important to include legal persons in the definition of whistleblowers and that this choice would not be a risk – we have already mentioned this issue in committee – but rather an opportunity to increase the number of alerts we would take in our nets. This would also allow the collective to be put back in the process, rather than systematically referring to individual responsibility. Everyone understands this well: whistleblowers intervene precisely when the collective frameworks that exist to prevent problems have failed. By extending the definition of whistleblowers to legal persons, one could therefore solve the quadrature of the circle. That is why it is essential to do so.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u39	Mrs Marie-George Buffet has the floor to support Amendment No. 63.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u40	To go in the direction of our colleague Bernalicis, a whistleblower often needs to be supported by a legal person, whether it is an association, a trade union or another entity. Sometimes the associations themselves play the role of a whistleblower. Several examples in the news show this. It is therefore essential that the law affords all necessary protection to legal persons by fully guaranteeing this status, especially since associations often provide protection and support to the whistleblower himself.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u41	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor in support of Amendment No 31.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u42	We have already discussed this issue in committee. By this amendment, the Socialist and Related Group stresses the need to defend the possibility for legal persons – associations, NGOs, trade unions – to be regarded as whistleblowers. You will probably object to me, as you did in committee, Mr rapporteur, that the text will also protect those who help whistleblowers, even if they are legal persons. However, during our hearings, several speakers stressed that the legal commitment of a legal person would allow potential whistleblowers to take the lead. You yourself defended this argument in the Council of Europe. That is why we insist on the need not to put back to tomorrow – that is to say to a future legislature – this question that will arise anyway if we do not act today.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u43	Identical amendments No 62 by Mr Matthieu Orphelin and No 102 by Mr Sébastien Chenu are being defended. What is the committee's opinion on these amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u44	We are indeed addressing a major issue, which has been the subject of lengthy discussions: the recognition of legal persons as whistleblowers. Many associations are demanding it – I know it for having had a lot of dialogue with them for three years. It is true that I had made a clear reference to this, among others, by presenting my report to the Council of Europe, and that my position has since changed. Why do I propose, in the text I present here, to distinguish between natural persons as whistleblowers on the one hand and natural or legal persons as facilitators on the other? First, I drafted this bill, thinking essentially about the women and men whose lives are crushed because they take a risk and show courage in exposing themselves. This is the main purpose of the text: it does not deal with the place of associations or trade unions in France, the way in which they defend themselves or the constitutional guarantees they enjoy. I understand the idea – which the next majority may take over – that certain issues may concern legal persons, but that is not the purpose of the text. I fear that the combination of guarantees provided to natural and legal persons will lead to a departure from the objective of protecting women and men at risk. [[Smile]] Another thing: several of you – including Mr Marleix – stressed that we were seeking, through this bill, to achieve a balance. It is true that at one end of the spectrum, actors – for example, employers' organisations, with which I have exchanged – wanted the mention of legal persons to be deleted from the text, while, on the other hand, trade unions felt that legal persons should be recognised both as facilitators and as whistleblowers. Perhaps you will blame my centrist penchant, but I believe that the right path – the peak line we must take – is to say that associations have a role to play in support of whistleblowers, but that it is primarily about protecting women and men who are exposed, that is to say, individuals. Opinion against the amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u45	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u46	In addition to the rapporteur's remarks, to which the Government agrees, since it will also issue an unfavourable opinion, I would add two points. The first is that the text is primarily aimed at protecting women and men who take risks by becoming whistleblowers. The second is that the associations – with which I work daily as Secretary of State for Youth and Engagement – will benefit from new protection, which will not be limited to trade unions or associations specializing in the defence of whistleblowers, since the status of facilitator will be recognised to all legal persons. This is a real step forward, which will enable us to respect the balance we have found in the text between the protection of the whistleblower, who is a natural person, and that of legal persons.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u47	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u48	Despite our support for the general economy and the philosophy of the text, which Marie-George Buffet explained during the general discussion, you will allow us to regret that article 1 does not go any further than what you propose and does not integrate legal persons. As you said yourself, the employer would have liked any reference to legal persons to be deleted.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u49	Surprising!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u50	[[Marie-George Buffet applauds]] As we can see, this is a major issue, because we know that collective initiatives are taking place in the workplace thanks to trade union organisations. It is on this ground that antagonisms are developing and pressure is being exerted – I will not return to fifty years of anti-union repression. We regret that you did not want to change the brace, because we must remember that there is a trade union history in France, especially for half a century. Trade union organisations, as such, have been whistle-blowers and have suffered a negative exclusion for social dialogue.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u51	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u52	In the continuity of my colleague's arguments, I would add that if legal persons were included in the definition of Article 1, this would mean in practice that they – trade union, association, any group – could also use internal alerts, therefore within the organisation, but that they could also go through an external channel, since their alerts would be considered admissible and transferred to the competent department. Today, such a procedure is not guaranteed for trade union or associative organisations, which launch an alert like a bottle at sea, without having an acknowledgement of receipt or the deadline for reply of three or six months provided for, among other things, this text. That is why, I repeat, we are depriving ourselves of potential alerts. The underlying message that we are sending is that in the end, only the natural person can activate the machine: it is in any case the only one to do so primarily, while the others can only be accompanied or facilitators. It's a missed opportunity. You yourself, Mr rapporteur, when you signed a report for the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, said that you approved the inclusion of legal persons in the definition of whistleblowers. Moreover, an authority that we have not yet mentioned, the Defender of Rights – which has been assigned by the Sapin 2 law a competence in the protection of whistleblowers – has also argued in favour of this measure. Many people and organizations are therefore in favour of it. [[Marie-George Buffet and Éric Coquerel applaud]] Is what I perceive as a missed opportunity due to a problem of arbitration with the Government or within the majority? In any case, if I do not see how this decision would pose a risk, I can see everything we could hope to gain from it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u53	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u54	First of all, to be perfectly clear, I would like to make it clear that nothing prevents a legal person from issuing an alert.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u55	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u56	It simply provides for specific protections which do not concern legal persons. That's all. On the other hand, Mr Wulfranc, I would like to tell you that we will be the only European country – I insist on this point – to recognise legal persons as being able to facilitate and accompany whistleblowers. This bold text will be a spearhead in Europe. I don't want to leave the impression that this is a small step. It's a big step. We found the right way to move forward on a ridge line.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u57	Amendment No 36 by Mrs Cécile Untermaier is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u58	I have before me two amendments, Nos 37 and 82, which can be discussed jointly. Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor to support Amendment No. 37.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u59	It deals with the condition of no direct financial contribution, a question which I raised in the general discussion and on which the Secretary of State was pleased to reply. Like other members of my group, I wonder about the relevance of this criterion. We understand the objective, which is to avoid the appearance of bounty hunters. I share this concern. We don't commit as a whistleblower to hope for a bonus, we agree. However, I am not convinced of your response to the donations. Of course, the gift is after the alert, but nothing prevents you from agreeing on a future gift. If I have been dubious enough about the appropriateness of the "direct financial contribution" formula, it is in part because this consideration will be subject to the judge's assessment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u60	Mr Philippe Dunoyer, in support of Amendment No. 82, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u61	He is pursuing an objective similar to that of our colleague Untermaier. First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur for replacing the concept of unselfishness, which is certainly too vague, with the dual criterion of good faith and the absence of direct financial compensation. It is true that good faith may not be sufficient and that lack of matching is an essential element. However, if only the direct financial contribution is mentioned, leaving aside the one that would be material or indirect, there is a risk of leaving the field open to other forms of counterparties, which could prevent the accurate assessment of the quality of the whistleblower. By this amendment, we therefore propose to maintain the conditions laid down, but by deleting the words "direct financial" because, in the absence of a counterpart, and if the person is in good faith, we are faced with a whistleblower.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u62	What is the committee's opinion on these amendments under joint discussion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u63	I wanted to replace the word "selfless" with the word "without direct financial compensation". The Secretary of State has given you the reason, which is clear. Ms Untermaier, during your speech during the presentation of the text, you used the word "contribution". This is indeed a "counterpart." We may be afraid, as you said, of dealing with bounty hunters who would respond to announcements of the type "$1 million to the one who will launch an alert in such a company". If some feel that such a practice would be acceptable, we do not think so. The question is the model of society we want, the place we want to give to whistleblowers. If I had described to each of the whistleblowers that I had met a world in which they might be suspected of wanting to win a bonus, in which they would be paid for their business, for example by a company A which would ask them, in exchange for a bonus, to denounce the practices of a competing company B, they would have considered the evocation of this model of society, if not as insulting, at least as totally out of step with their deep motivations. It was desirable to remove the problematic notion of self-interest. On the other hand, there was also a need to prevent bounty hunters. In other words, a bounty hunter cannot benefit from the protections provided for in this text. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u64	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u65	The Government fully shares the rapporteur's view. The concept of self-interest, required by the Sapin 2 Act, is perceived as insufficiently clear, which is why it was necessary to replace the concept of lack of direct financial compensation. The opinion is therefore unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u66	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor to support Amendment No. 33.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u67	It seems important to us, because it aims to clarify the criterion of good faith by relying on both Article 6 of the European Directive 2019/ 1937, on the information report of Mr Gauvain and Mr Marleix, and on a judgment of 8 July 2020 of the Court of Cassation. By stating that the alerter has "reasonable grounds to believe that the facts he or she reports are true at the time of the alert", the scope of the definition is framed and the information provided by the alerter is given more weight.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u68	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u69	With this amendment, we are more on the legislating ground. Good faith has been precisely defined by case law developed over the course of the texts. Let's stick to that definition. If there was any doubt, the judge could consult the definition of the information contained in the directive, which includes all the elements, such as the reasonable suspicion or the actual or potential violations that we will be discussing earlier. We therefore have a satisfactory definition of good faith, as it is characterized in French law. It would, in my view, be awkward to adopt the definition that you are proposing, first because it might conflict with other possible definitions, contained in other texts, and because we would spend our time looking for why it is different from others. By rewriting this definition, we may also restrict it. Let us trust the judge and the jurisprudence that is very well established in this area. Above all, I ask you not to give in to the temptation to define this concept in the bill with our own words. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u70	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u71	The concept of good faith is already very well defined. After expertizing your amendment, we found that it could be counterproductive and therefore run counter to your objective as we perceived it through your commitment and during the debates in committee. The opinion is also unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u72	Mrs Marie-George Buffet has the floor to support Amendment No. 69.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u73	The EU Directive states that alerters should "have reasonable grounds to believe, in the light of the circumstances and information available to them at the time of the alert, that the facts they report are true". This requirement "ensures that the alerter remains protected when he or she has reported in good faith incorrect information on violations". It seems to me important that your proposal for a law incorporates these clarifications contained in the European directive.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u74	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u75	I will not try to convince you on the merits, since we already agree. On the other hand, I would ask you to withdraw this amendment. I invite you to read carefully the definition of the bill. It refers to "information, including reasonable suspicions, concerning actual or potential violations that have occurred or are very likely to occur". Everything you have mentioned is largely covered by this very precise definition. If there was any doubt, the judge would refer to it. I therefore propose that you do not change it. I cannot say that I am against your amendment, but as it is entirely satisfied, I ask for it to be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u76	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 71.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u77	I have already defended it in committee, and we have already discussed this issue. I would like to broaden the definition of a whistleblower by proposing to clarify that information may also relate to a malfunction. This clarification seems important to me. In committee, I had given the example of magistrate Charles Prats, who denounces the tax and social frauds which, according to him, the state does not pay enough attention. These frauds cannot be said to be a crime committed by the administration. However, Charles Prats himself defines himself as a whistleblower, and his action, in my view, corresponds quite well to this definition. An administrative investigation was opened against him to silence him, as he was suspected of breaching his duty of reserve. Mr rapporteur, you said to me in committee: "The term "disfunction" can cover very different realities [...] If, on the other hand, a malfunction is clearly contrary to the general interest, for example fraud, then we enter the field of the whistleblower. » However, in the case I am quoting, this is not a fraud. Indeed, the administration does not fraud, but it is dysfunctional in that it does not remedy the dysfunctions found – in this case tax or social fraud. Since I am not convinced by your arguments in committee, I have resubmitted my amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u78	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u79	I'll try to convince you. I was a company manager; of the 300 people who made up my company, at least 250 probably found him to be a malfunction. Every employee finds dysfunctions in the company, like any member of an organization; I am sure that as a Member of Parliament, you are able to detect dysfunctions in our institution.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u80	That's for sure!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u81	To point out a malfunction cannot therefore be sufficient to obtain all the protections reserved for whistleblowers; I think that would be totally disproportionate. Malfunctions represent a different issue. If your amendment were adopted, we would create an impossible system where, whenever a person feels that there is a malfunction, they would benefit from all the protections provided for in that law. I don't think that's a possibility. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u82	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u83	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u84	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u85	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u86	If the provision is included in the intended place, it would necessarily be a malfunction affecting the general interest, not a mere malfunction of a company. I hear your argument and agree with you; But the dysfunctions I'm talking about are of a different nature. Thus, the magistrate Charles Prats, who denounces the dysfunctions of the social benefits system, can in my opinion quite be regarded as a whistleblower.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u87	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 73.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u88	I propose to expand the definition in another way, by adding, between threat and injury, damage. It is well known that, in law, the notions of injury and injury refer to two very different realities. Damage refers to the injury suffered, which is assessed at the seat of the injury, while the injury is the result of the injury, the effect or the continuation of the damage. I find it regrettable to deprive myself of a legal part of the definition.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u89	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u90	Roman law is being revised, with the notions of damnum and præjudicium, which you would like to see both integrated. Whether or not these notions come together – the question is debated – it is indeed prejudice, not harm to the general interest, that is referred to in the text. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u91	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u92	The concept of injury to the general interest is covered by the concept of injury. The Government is therefore opposed to the amendment; I suggest that you take it out.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u93	I call Mr Eric Coquerel to support Amendment No. 5.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u94	To resume the present novlangue, it is a matter of avoiding a hole in the snowshoe. We call for those who report a risk to public health and the environment to be considered as whistleblowers. You may tell me that these areas are already included in the definition; But the National Commission on Ethics and Alerts in the Field of Public Health and the Environment (CNDASPE), which deals with the content of alerts, found that the Law on the Independence of Expertise in the Field of Health and the Environment and the Protection of Alerters, known as the Blandin Law, was insufficient and that the issue of risks needed to be clarified, as a corollary of the precautionary principle. We propose to apply the same approach in this text because, even if this is not the objective of the law, the absence of this concept may one day become problematic by allowing alerts relating to past or future risks to be removed. You said earlier, Mr rapporteur, that you considered this text an important step; I agree with you, but let us not exclude from its scope the questions that I raise.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u95	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u96	Ms. Blandin, the author of the law you mentioned, and the president of the CNDASPE, were interviewed. The amendment is clearly satisfied. The terms you propose – public health and the environment – are fully included in the definition. On the other hand, you use the word "risk", without qualifying it; But there's always a risk, in any field. The question is whether it is imminent and the likelihood of it. The risk still exists; This concept is therefore not sufficient to characterize the possibility of launching an alert. The words chosen in the article – "a threat or damage to the general interest" – largely cover any notion of environmental damage and free us from the need to call the word "risk", too imprecise. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u97	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u98	Disadvantaged too.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u99	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u100	The term "risk" is not so vague, since it defines the precautionary principle in terms of public health and the environment. It is because there may be a risk to the population that safeguards and protocols must be provided to avoid it. Public health and environmental whistleblowers – there were a few in our country, such as Irene Frachon in the field of medicines – acted precisely because risks had not been properly assessed or had been placed under the carpet. Public health and environmental risks fall within the purview of the CNDASPE, and there is a need for coordination between the provisions of the text on the protection of whistleblowers and the structures that deal with alerts as such. Including this concept in the definition would make it possible to push this coordination to the end.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u101	Amendment No 34 by Mrs Cécile Untermaier is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u102	Disadvantaged, for reasons set out in the committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u103	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor in support of Amendments Nos 6 and 29, which can be put together.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u104	These two amendments are linked. The first provides for the deletion of paragraph 3 concerning the various secrets excluded from the field of alerts. Indeed, one can be alerted in all areas if one denounces an attack or a threat – and not a risk, as we have just seen – to the general interest, but one cannot rely on a document covered by the secrecy of the national defence, medical secrecy, the secrecy of the relationship between the lawyer and his client, the secrecy of the investigation and the investigation, etc. However, many of the whistleblowers we heard had to rely at some point on documents covered by a secret. From our point of view, the revelations they made were in the public interest and were useful to public debate and to the existence of a full, complete and accomplished democracy. I am not for the suppression of secrets, which also represent a democratic guarantee – I myself defended, last night, the importance of the lawyer's secrecy in matters of counsel. Nevertheless, Amendment No 29 proposes to leave a small door open by creating a procedure allowing, if a secret document is in possession, to request a judge of liberty and detention (JLD) to ask him whether it is possible to make an internal or external alert on the basis of this document while benefiting from the protections of whistleblowers. It is not possible to define general criteria, it is necessary to judge on documents. Sometimes it's simple: when a secret is used to hide an offence, a crime or an offence, the law already provides exceptions to the secrecy regime. Thus, when a child is abused, medical confidentiality may be ignored. The aim is to go beyond the existing provisions while providing for a guarantee: the supervision of an independent magistrate who will judge on documents.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u105	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u106	Several amendments concern the various secrets. Article 1 mentions five: three already existed in the Sapin 2 law; Two more have been added, as provided for in the directive, specifying them and limiting them to criminal proceedings. I believe, like you, that it is not desirable to remove all the secrets. In committee, we took the example of the secret of the relationship between the lawyer and his client – a topical issue in this House!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u107	We debated it here yesterday!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u108	Not everyone should be able to use or distribute the documents submitted to the lawyer, even if they can prove a crime of their client. I am therefore against the amendments, but I would like to clarify my position as it will explain my opinion on the following proposals. If the text represents a step forward in relation to the Sapin 2 law, it is because it specifies that the secrets evolve with society. I am convinced that the defence secret will evolve: should it be fully applicable to the arms trade, should there be exceptions? The text provides that in case of evolution, the field that is no longer covered by a secret opens de facto to the regime of whistleblowers. This does not mean that information becomes public; But if, in six months' time, a law excludes a data from the scope of the defence, even if the data remains confidential, it may be the subject of an alert. That is the progress made by the text. I kept from inventing criteria that would allow the whistleblower to derogate from secrets. It is too complex, it would take months of analysis for each of them, and that is not the purpose of this text. On the other hand, contrary to what was provided for in the Sapin 2 law, whenever derogations evolve, now or in the future, the scope of action will extend. I shall come back later, on the occasion of other amendments, to the secrecy of the investigation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u109	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u110	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u111	Mr Philippe Latomb has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u112	This intervention will allow me to defend in advance Amendment No 98, which I tabled in my personal capacity. I share the position expressed by Mr Bernalicis in Amendment No 29. I am not, either, against secrets; But the existing secrets – defence secrecy, medical secrecy – were the subject of special, internal alerts. By choosing to apply the directive as it stands, when one has the possibility of providing for a so-called one, you have not put in place special devices. Therefore, the text will effectively block all whistleblowers who would like to act in these areas. This is a problem, because by adding secrets, the text automatically excludes all sectors that they cover from the scope of expression of whistleblowers. In the amendment I tabled, I propose to delete the words "the secrecy of the investigation or judicial investigation", but the solution of Mr Bernalicis and his colleagues in the La France insoumée group seems to me good: if the whistleblowers will see the Defender of Rights, why would they not, in some cases, go to a specialized judge, a judicial judge himself held to professional secrecy, who will receive the request without making it public and who will tell the whistleblower whether or not he is entitled to the protection regime? This would allow an independent judicial authority to state whether a particular element warrants disclosure and whether the whistleblower regime can apply. In my personal capacity, I will therefore vote on Amendment No 29 by Mr Bernalicis; On the other hand, I will not vote on No 6, because I am not in favour of deleting paragraph 3 – this has already been explained at length.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u113	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u114	In theory, the Directive provides for a non-regression clause. It could be argued whether to incorporate two new secrets, which were not included in Sapin 2 law, does not represent a regression from previous law. I put the idea on the table, but the argument seems acceptable to me. It is, of course, impossible to foresee all cases; Hence the idea of referring the decision back to the judge of freedoms and detention, who will be able to judge on documents. Let us take the case of a lawyer's relationship with his client, probably the most complex and the one I most want to protect under secrecy: if the lawyer chats with the opposing party in the back of the person he defends by using professional secrecy to reveal nothing, it is indeed a hijacking on his part of the right he enjoys, but he will argue the latter when the time comes if he is called into question by a whistleblower. If our amendment No. 29 was adopted, the whistleblower could file an application with the judge of freedoms and detention, who would decide whether the disclosure involves the founding secrecy of the lawyer's defence or counsel relationship with his client, and thus constitutes a major breach of what is provided for in a rule of law, or on the contrary if the act in question is not covered by professional secrecy or if the information disclosed is of sufficient general interest within the meaning of Article 1 so that it can be dealt with by an internal or external alert. In its current wording, the text refers the whistleblower to its own legal analysis as to whether or not the information in its possession is covered by secrecy, or whether it falls within the scope of a possible derogation provided for by law: as a result, the whistleblower is in danger of knowing whether or not it can disclose the information, which legally insecures it. For my part, I propose a more operational mechanism, aimed at legally securing the whistleblower.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u115	I have before me two amendments, Nos 32 and 98, which can be discussed jointly. Mr Dominique potier's amendment No 32 is being defended. Mr Philippe Latomb's amendment No. 98 has already been defended. What is the committee's opinion on these two amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u116	Unfavorable opinion. These amendments give me the opportunity to go back to the types of secrecy they deal with: the secrecy of the investigation and the judicial investigation, as well as the secrecy of the judicial deliberations for Amendment No 32. If they were adopted, it would mean that a clerk who disagrees with a judge's decision to file without further action could throw a play in the media by claiming to be a whistleblower to denounce what he considers a crime... That's not right! He would not be a whistleblower, since he would have transgressed a secret protected by law. On the other hand, a judicial police officer who knowingly destroys evidence would not be legally protected by the secrecy of the investigation and judicial investigation. I wanted to make this point so that the citizens who look at us or who are going to read us have no doubt about it. Having said that, I hear your argument about non-regression, Mr Bernalicis. But we have studied the directive carefully and it is clear: it does not object to the notions of secrecy being defined at the level of national law. Our analysis is therefore that there is no regression in this matter. And I think that taking over the five areas it deals with brings clarification and I will give an opinion which is unfavourable to all the amendments which propose to delete them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u117	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u118	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u119	The floor is for Mr Ugo Bernalicis – but I invite all of you, ladies and gentlemen, to be a little more concise, otherwise you know what is going to happen.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u120	[[Smile]] It's an alarm!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u121	When you've been working on a subject for two years, you may want to defend your point of view!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u122	There are commissions for that.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u123	We may also want to defend him in the Chamber, Mr President. I would point out that I was present in committee and that there are two stages in the legislative process.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u124	I may make comments on the holding of our debates, including on behalf of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u125	I hear well, but on such a subject, it is important for everyone to be clear about what each of them is talking about. Today, in the present state of the law of whistleblowers, the secrecy of investigation is protected by law when it is considered to be such. Therefore, a person who discloses information covered by the said secret would be liable to prosecution for breach of the secrecy of investigation and investigation – but would still benefit, if he or she were to enter the criteria of the public interest alerter, from the related protections. This does not mean that the law would make him right, that his alert would be legally valid, but that he could be protected. I think this article is a regression, since it reduces the perimeter of people who can be protected; Moreover, it does not solve the problem of legal insecurity for those who, in their view, are going to disclose information covered by a secret provided for in the law. At the very least, we could go back to the situation under the Sapin 2 Act. There are still some cases that should make you think: I am thinking in particular of what happened in Nice with Geneviève Legay, that Attac activist, remember, who was violently hit by police officers in action during the demonstrations of the yellow vests; a whistleblower has revealed some crucial information and which has proved how much if not crimes, in any case problems in the handling of this case, to the point that the prosecutor of the Republic of Nice of the time was the subject of a disciplinary transfer – he is now a general lawyer at the Court of Appeal of Lyon. And what do you think happened to that whistleblower, who was also an officer of the Ministry of the Interior? He is prosecuted for the violation of the secrecy of the investigation and the investigation... That is what can actually happen to a whistleblower, and I propose to remedy such situations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u126	I have before me a number of amendments, Nos 35, 74 and 30, which can be discussed jointly. Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor to support Amendment No. 35.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u127	I will also defend my amendment No 30, Mr President, since it also deals with the issue of exemptions from secrecy. You have made your position very clear, Mr rapporteur, and the fact that you are excluding, for reasons that can be heard, the criteria proposed to derogate from secrecy. But I think that there is still a legal vacuum, which Mr Bernalicis has clearly shown, for the person who stumbles upon information which falls within the scope of the secrecy regime: the text does not provide for what to do with it. Of course, the legislator already provides for recourse to the judge of freedoms and detention in many cases when there are not so many judges, but what else can be envisaged in the case I am referring to? That is the question I am asking you, in a very constructive spirit and not at all controversial.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u128	Mr Hubert Julien-Laferrière has the floor to support Amendment No. 74.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u129	My amendment deals with the specific case of defence secrecy, which in this respect implies a specific mechanism to find the famous balance between respect for this secret, to which I believe we are all attached, and the freedom of the whistleblower and therefore information. The law of 2015 allowed for a first step, but at the cost of what complexity! Referral to a control commission, which itself seizes the prosecutor, who himself seizes another commission that informs the Prime Minister, who can then authorize the prosecutor to have access to the documents now declassified... Of course, we need to make it simpler and, to do so, this amendment proposes to draw on the famous principles of Tshwane 2013, the fruit of two years of work on national security and access to information, two years of work between professionals, government representatives and civil society. The compass to reach the peak line, the balance that I have mentioned, is obviously the general interest, knowing that the disclosure of information prevails over that of maintaining secrecy in many cases, which must therefore exclude any continuation of the whistleblower. I am not against defence secrecy, and my amendment clearly specifies the conditions for derogation, in particular "a risk of serious and imminent danger to the general interest". But I believe that when it comes to crime, human rights violations, environmental hazards and fortiori ecocide, it is essential to amend our law accordingly, including for defence secrecy, so that the citizen is obviously informed and the whistleblower protected. That is, of course, the purpose of this bill and I intend to contribute to it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u130	Amendment No 30 has been defended. What is the committee's opinion on these three amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u131	Mr President, I am very sensitive to your arguments on the conciseness of our remarks and I will now go straight to the point. I have already explained myself about the regime of secrets and I am not to invent derogations or specificities. In reply to Ms. Untermaier, I have consulted with the Government to find out what would happen if I found on the train a file classified as "confidential defence" – thus not in this case a whistleblower and unable to use it to broadcast it. I was told that I could send it to the General Secretariat of the Government (SGG), which would make good use of it. You obviously have no right to mention it, neither the right to communicate it nor the right to disseminate it when the file is covered by the defence secret – but the SGG is there for you!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u132	[[Smile]] The case you are referring to does not apply to all the territories, Mr rapporteur, because some are underserved by trains, the elected representatives of the south-west can testify to this.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u133	[[Smile]] Let's think about it, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u134	What is the Government's opinion on the amendments under discussion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u135	The defence secret is now enforceable against the judge and, in order to lift it, it is obviously necessary to follow a special procedure allowing access to the classified information – an administrative and non-judicial procedure, which I believe it is necessary to recall. For that reason, the Government was not in favour of destabilizing the law in that regard. The balance of the text must be preserved, both fine and just.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u136	I have before me two amendments, No 68, 149, which may be put to a joint debate. I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 68.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u137	This is no longer a question of secrecy, but of the duty of reserve, again a discussion which we had in committee, Mr rapporteur, but I would like to make it clear that natural persons subject to a duty of reserve are protected in the same way as all other whistleblowers. I refer again to the case of magistrate Charles Prats, who is accused of having failed to fulfil his duty of reservation by denouncing the shortcomings, shortcomings or malfunctions – we no longer know what term to use – of the administration in the fight against social and fiscal fault. Refusal to extend this article to staff members who are accused of failing to comply with their duty to reserve considerably limits its scope. Furthermore, Mr rapporteur, contrary to what you have said to me in committee, I think that the case I have mentioned has nothing to do with the expression of an opinion, because setting an alert is a completely different logic. In the case of this magistrate, it is clearly a matter of the disclosure of information that relates to harm to the public interest and therefore falls within the scope of article 1: it is not an expression of an opinion on how the administration or the Government manages the fight against social or tax fraud. Failure to provide in the legislation for the protection of whistleblowers when they are subject to a duty of reservation would be a source of legal uncertainty and therefore harmful to the general interest which this law is supposed to defend.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u138	Amendment No 149 by Mr Jean Lassalle is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u139	We have talked about this in committee, Mrs Ménard, and I confirm that the concept of the duty to reserve, which was mainly based on the expression of an opinion, is disjointed in this text from the concept of alert. The duty of reserve shall in no case prevent the whistleblower from carrying out an alert or a disclosure; On the other hand, it is opposed to a public official using this right to go far beyond what is necessary for alerting and expressing opinions publicly while benefiting from the specific protections of the whistleblower.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u140	We agree, I repeat, because this is an important subject: under no circumstances does the duty of reserve prevent the whistleblower from making a report or disclosing information. Nevertheless, he must not commit abuses on the grounds that he can completely free himself from his duty of reservation. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u141	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u142	The mere act of issuing an alert can never be held against an officer and is considered a breach of his duty as a reserve. It is important to recall this clearly. If the qualification of professional failure was retained and sanctions applied, they would be unjustified. These amendments, which aim to extend the status of whistleblower to persons subject to a duty of reservation, could alter the very definition of that duty, which is not included in the general statute of the civil service but falls within the scope of the pre-trial law. The Government was unfavourable because a staff member could, of course, launch an alert without being deemed to have breached his duty of reserve.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u143	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u144	Mr rapporteur, Madam Secretary of State, I am pleased that you have brought this important clarification. However, I understand all the less your position: while you are telling us clearly that the duty of reserve must not prevent an alerter from acting and cannot be opposed to it in a normal context – if at all it can be – unless it commits abuses, why don't you agree to include it in the text? Indeed, we agree: we make it clear that the duty of reserve cannot be opposed to a whistleblower. Therefore, it should be possible to include black on white in the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u145	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u146	I repeat what I said in committee: this provision is not in the right place, because measures to protect officials are provided for later in the text; We will therefore have the opportunity to discuss them again during their examination. The problem is that the duty of reservation is not enshrined in the hard law: it is subject to multiple interpretations. If you visit the site service-public.fr, it is stated that: "The obligation to reserve also requires you to avoid in all circumstances behaviors that may affect the consideration of the public service by users. " Thus, you should not over-critically criticize your administration, question it or mispress it. However, an alerting official who discloses information will be subjected to a breach of his obligation to reserve – and even if this is not enshrined in hard law, he will be subject to disciplinary proceedings on the part of his administration. It is not fiction: Amar Benmohamed, head brigadier within the police, who followed all the stages of the Sapin 2 law without knowing it – the whistleblowers do not look at the law before disclosing information –, in particular by preventing its hierarchy, is being prosecuted today by the police prefecture for failing to comply with its obligation to reserve. Where a person is a whistleblower within the meaning of section 1, paragraph 2, of the proposed Act, this is not acceptable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u147	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u148	Mrs Ménard, we do not agree with the wording of your amendment: "Natural persons subject to a duty of reservation are protected in the same way as all whistleblowers. What I said earlier is that the duty of reserve is distinct from, and cannot oppose, the launching of alerts, but that is not what your amendment proposes. If I do not agree with him, we agree that the two concepts are disjointed and that the duty of reserve cannot prevent an official from strictly launching his alert. From the legal point of view, after the examination in committee, I found that the concept of duty to reserve was not codified: it was based on case law and was the subject of a very precise definition and adapted to the circumstances. The current rule of law should not be changed; codifying this notion would be a mistake.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u149	The rapporteur's amendment No 117 is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u150	I call Mr Marleix to support Amendment No. 134.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u151	Mr rapporteur, I agree with the logic of your text, which reserves the status of whistleblower to natural persons and which refers by the term "facilitators" to persons who can assist them. On the other hand, it is important that such persons should enjoy the same protection as whistleblowers, particularly with regard to secrecy and civil liability.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u152	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u153	You are proposing to expand a little more the protective measures attached to the facilitators. I would like to point out that they already enjoy protection against reprisals, civil fine proceedings, criminal irresponsibility in the event of breach of a protected secret in the context of an alert, and the reinstatement of any person who has been dismissed. Thus, some of the measures that you are proposing are very much satisfied, because they are provided for in the bill. On the other hand, others, such as financial or psychological support or the opening of the interim release order, do not seem appropriate to me. We have achieved a balance by not extending to the facilitators all the protection measures available to whistleblowers, because by doing so we would have gone too far. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u154	The rapporteur's amendment No 120 is a co-ordination amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u155	Amendment No 143 by Mr Jean Lassalle is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u156	I have before me three amendments, Nos 38, 64 and 151, which can be discussed jointly. Amendment No 38 by Mrs Cécile Untermaier is being defended. Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor to support Amendment No. 64.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u157	This withdrawal amendment, which Mrs Buffet asked me to defend, takes up one of the recommendations of the Maison des lancers d'alert. Legal persons, in particular associations Law 1901, play a key role in the alert process by relaying alert launchers' reports. Sometimes some associations act themselves in this capacity, receive alerts and relay them. In doing so, they contribute to the protection of whistleblowers by allowing them to remain anonymous and not to expose themselves. They also encourage alerts, as university studies have shown that employees are more likely to alert when the possibility of staying anonymous is offered. However, despite this role, whistleblowers do not enjoy any of the protections provided by the whistleblower status. However, there are many reprisals against them. The purpose of this amendment is to remedy this situation by extending the status of whistleblower to non-profit legal persons who replace the whistleblower to issue an alert.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u158	I call Mr Molac to support Amendment No. 151.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u159	I agree with my colleague's arguments. We had already tabled this amendment to Article 1. It aims to ensure that NGOs disseminate the alert instead of the whistleblower in order to better protect it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u160	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u161	This is clearly a clever way to come back to the subject we discussed at the beginning of our consideration of the bill. With the same causes having the same effects, I am against these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u162	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u163	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u164	I am going to give the floor to Mr Ugo Bernalicis, but I am telling you, ladies and gentlemen, you cannot wish us to go faster and speak on all the amendments, then speak again – I am sure everyone will have understood the message. You have the floor, Mr. Bernalicis.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u165	We just lost 15 seconds, but it's okay... The extension to facilitate legal persons of certain provisions relating to the status of whistleblower not only concerns protection against reprisals, but a set of guarantees. The internal and external reporting channels procedure contains time requirements, both to acknowledge receipt and to begin processing the alert. I say it again so that everyone has it in mind. It is important that we do not focus on the whistleblower or the whistleblower, even as a facilitating legal person, but that we also focus on the alert as such and the procedural safeguards surrounding it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u166	The rapporteur's amendment No 121 is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u167	I have before me three identical amendments, Nos 7, 39 and 148. I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 7.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u168	It aims to change the French right of asylum to recognize a new category of refugee: whistleblowers in a foreign country who meet our definition of a whistleblower. This seems important to us in view of the concrete case of Julian Assange, to which several parliamentarians have given their support – I hope we will be more – and to which we could grant asylum – and even, if he so wishes, the French nationality, which would be the best protection for him. Moreover, in some countries, we would be interested in an alert which would concern France, French citizens and the general interest. Let us take the particularly globalized field of digital technology, dominated by giants. The law commission interviewed Frances Haugen, who reported elements from Facebook offices in the United States, but who are of interest to the French in the foreground as users of a social network exploiting elements of their privacy. I do not want personal data to be outsourced in countries that do not offer the same protection as ours and people to be silent when they can speak and provide us with useful elements for democracy, in order to avoid breaches of international law, particularly in the area of privacy, which will become increasingly important in the years to come.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u169	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor to support Amendment No. 39.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u170	The subject is important because, unfortunately, we have encountered this problem, particularly in the Council of Europe. At the time, we interviewed Mr. Snowden on the issue of the right of asylum; It is about protecting people who risk their lives. Granting asylum to whistleblowers is also a recommendation of the National Advisory Commission on Human Rights – CNCDH. This is not a matter of the past: we are encountering new situations, and we will see others, perhaps tomorrow. We need to move forward on this issue in order to properly protect whistleblowers by granting them the right to asylum.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u171	I call Mr Molac to support Amendment No. 148.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u172	Woe to the one by whom the scandal happens, one might say. Julien Assange, blocked in an embassy in London...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u173	He's in jail now!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u174	...as well as Edward Snowden, became pariahs of society, while they served everyone. We would therefore honour ourselves by giving them political refugee status and welcoming them to our home. It is a matter of common sense, as our society seeks to protect itself from those who resort to secrecy – defence or otherwise – to cover immoral, unacceptable and unbearable acts.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u175	What is the opinion of the committee on these identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u176	First of all, a whistleblower can obtain refugee status if he is subjected to persecution as a result of his report: it may not be clear to everyone, but this principle is already included in French law. These amendments finally propose to automatically recognise the status...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u177	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u178	However, they result in automatic recognition of refugee status and status, regardless of whether or not the person is subjected to reprisals,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u179	You're the one who said it! It would be a novelty...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u180	...which would be excessive. [[Mrs Cécile Untermaier acquiesce]] In order to apply for refugee status, it is necessary to be on French territory, which raises the question of large international whistleblowers. I called for the Council of Europe to take up the matter. A European reception procedure, drawn up under the auspices of the Council, aimed at granting refugee status to whistleblowers of international notoriety, would honour the foundation of common values of the European Union: we are not there, but in any case the answer goes beyond the scope of the proposed law. I therefore express an opinion against these amendments, even if they raise a real problem.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u181	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u182	While the status of a whistleblower may indeed constitute an element of refugee status, this is not the subject of this text and the Government does not wish to return to it. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u183	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u184	These amendments are intended to allow for the introduction by decree of a special procedure, which would not be automatic, but would establish a new explicit criterion for the benefit of the right of asylum. They are inspired by the case of Julian Assange, founder of WikiLeaks, persecuted for 12 years for revealing information of general interest through his website. Among them is the espionage of the President of the French Republic and foreign heads of government by the American secret services. For revealing this, he had to take refuge for seven years in a ten-square-metre room at the Embassy of Ecuador in London. He was tapped, spyed on, constantly watched, and gradually was swallowed up by the Kafkai machinery of the judicial administration. A recent investigation revealed that the U.S. intelligence agency had considered the option of kidnapping him, or even murdering him, while he was in that embassy. Since 2019, Julian Assange has been detained in a high-security English prison, waiting for deliberate extradition to the United States, where he faces 175 years in prison. [[Mr. Ugo Bernalicis applauds]] France has a huge debt to Julian Assange. It is therefore essential to introduce this new criterion, so that those who commit themselves in the name of the general interest, sometimes at the risk of their lives, can benefit from the protection of France. Madam Secretary of State – perhaps you have observed – Julian Assange's father and companion were present yesterday in the Assembly to alert us. Stella Morris said that "they are killing Julian Assange, now, slowly." The UN, Amnesty International, Human Rights Watch, journalists, the Council of Europe, are calling for its release: it goes beyond the political divide, it is the fundamental principles of democracy. Thank you for doing everything you can to save her life. It is time for our country to return to its tradition of defending freedoms.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u185	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u186	Your intention is highly commendable, and your comments on Mr. Assange give rise to our empathy. However, under the proposed scheme, "any foreign person recognized as a whistleblower", anywhere in the world, would automatically be granted refugee status: this is neither realistic nor materially possible. Having said that, I once again call on the European Union to devise a special procedure for certain specific whistleblowers.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u187	[[Ms. Yaël Braun-Pivet, Chairperson of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic,]] Madam Chair of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, I thought, in view of the many previous statements, that the work had not been done in committee, but I was told that I was wrong: I was unfair with you and I apologize.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u188	Oh, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u189	I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 8.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u190	It aims to enable any whistleblower to become a civil party, in a procedure concerning the alert he has issued himself. It may seem upuesque to you, even if some consider it normal. Currently, if the whistleblower is not personally concerned, he or she is not entitled to appear as a civil party and is not involved in the proceedings concerning his or her alert unless he or she is summoned, either by the magistrates or by one of the parties, as a witness. For example, some alerts gave rise to procedures in which whistleblowers did not have a voice in the chapter, not even to clarify the conditions under which they had worked or to clarify the information collected. Such disjointed proceedings, to which the main parties concerned are not present, may result in judicial suffocation of certain cases.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u191	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u192	Very unfavourable opinion. If any whistleblower were likely to become a civil party, as well as a victim seeking damages, it would be outside the scope of the concept of civil liability.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u193	The Secretary of State for European Affairs has the floor to give the Government's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u194	Also unfavourable is the fact that the key principle of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which states that "any person who claims to be aggrieved by a crime or an offence may, by lodging a complaint, become a civil party", if it applies to whistleblowers, cannot result from the same status. It is necessary to maintain the principle of the need for a personal and direct link.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u195	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u196	There's a link, it's the alert that the whistleblower launched,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u197	Yes, but he doesn't have to act!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u198	...that is why excluding it de facto is problematic.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u199	It's not de facto!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u200	It is desirable to include it if he requests it...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u201	We don't rule it out!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u202	... and, if he claims damages, it may be up to the magistrate to refuse them on the ground that he has not suffered any harm. Let the judicial institution do justice and operate by allowing the procedure to be completed, without excluding anyone. In fact, in the past, we have already misunderstood the main principles that you have set out, since certain associations – Anticor, Sherpa, Transparency International – are allowed to sue for certain offences and offences that give rise to a trial. It is necessary for whistleblowers to be able to participate in the trial concerning the alert they have launched.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u203	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u204	We do not exclude it, we refuse to include it automatically, which is very different. (Mr. Ugo Bernalicis laughs.)
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u205	I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 9.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u206	I had tabled it myself in the context of the proposal for a law on the effective protection of launchers and whistleblowers, for the transposition of the European directive on the protection of persons who report violations of Union law. In this text, we failed to consider the role of the Defender of Rights for the treatment, not only of whistleblowers, provided for by the law, – I do not disagree with it and I am very supportive of it – but also of the alert itself, its characterization and its transmission to the appropriate bodies. We had thought of a kind of inspection of whistleblowers attached to the Defender of Rights, with thematic commissions that could mobilise, depending on the type of alert, contacts, external authorities – independent or not – researchers and specialized associations, in order to accompany the whistleblower. We are not going to the end of this system, which is a pity. You are referring us, Mr rapporteur, to a future legislature: I hope to play a role on the subject of whistleblowers, because they need them. We can't decorate the whistleblower's alert.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u207	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u208	[[Mr. Ugo Bernalicis acquiesce]] You are proposing, Mr. Bernalicis, to take over the bill you introduced. So you will not be surprised that my opinion is unfavorable: I indicated in my presentation that it had been a source of inspiration, but used sparingly.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u209	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u210	Unfavorable opinion too, so as not to open a very different debate on the general economy of the text: this is not the choice that has been made. In addition, several provisions of this amendment are, in our analysis, contrary to the text of the directive.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u211	That's a bad analysis!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u212	I call Mr Latomb to support Amendment No. 109.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u213	It aims, in a way, to make Chinese medicine for whistleblowers. The text speaks of curing and repairing possible damage: perhaps one could start by preventing damage and accept that, when the whistleblower is employed by a company, provided that the Defender of Rights has officially recognised him as a whistleblower, he is granted the status of protected employee. This would allow it to continue to operate within the company, when it has denounced facts or acts sufficiently serious for it to be given the status of a whistleblower. Moreover, he could not be dismissed. It is considered that the status of protected employee only concerns certain persons, subject to the vote of the employees – this is the case of trade unionists – or who enjoy a special status – pregnant women, for example. It is possible to include employee whistleblowers in the company. In the event of dismissal for economic reasons or for other reasons which cannot be attributed to the whistleblower, a procedure exists and the labour inspector will be required to give his consent or not. If the head of the enterprise believes that the dismissal is well founded, he will refer the decision to the Minister of Labour and, in case of disagreement, he will still be able to file an appeal before the administrative court. There is therefore no problem in entrusting the status of protected employee to whistleblowers in the event of general dismissal. It is important to adopt this amendment because Frances Haugen told us, at his hearing before the Committee on Laws, that some of his colleagues did not have the courage or the means to launch an alert.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u214	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u215	We have already raised this issue and I am against your proposal. A staff representative, elected for several years, enjoys the status of protected employee in a clear framework. Other provisions characterize the status of protected employee, with a clear operative event. The problem of whistleblowers raises a million questions: how long would they be protected? How? Who would decide he's still a whistleblower? If his alert "falls", would he still be protected and for how long? Of course, we could imagine mechanisms. But that is not the choice we make: this bill provides tailored protections for whistleblowers, specifically related to reprisals, and in particular to gag procedures. Unfavorable opinion: this status does not seem appropriate to me either for the whistleblower or for a person who would be referent within the company.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u216	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u217	Same thing, even though I understand your idea. The logic of protected employee status is general; Here, there is a causal link: it is the alert that triggers protection – indeed stronger than that of the employee protected in many respects, since it is general, and that it cannot be lifted by a referral to the labour inspectorate. It seems to me better to respect the economy of the bill. Let us not mix these two types of protection, which are profoundly different.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u218	Mr Philippe Latomb has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u219	I don't agree. Mr rapporteur, you are asking how long this protection would last: therefore, sub-amend to clarify the limit. But the operative fact is there: the employee has denounced certain acts in the company, and he is recognized as a whistleblower. As for the status of protected employee, it is not so general as you say: it is granted to pregnant women, or to employees who are victims of an accident at work, in which case the duration depends on the consequences of the accident and the decision of the occupational medicine. The protections provided for in the bill are very good. But the courts are being shut down and it takes a very long time for a correctional procedure to produce a result. How will the salaried whistleblower live during that time? If he has been dismissed for gross misconduct – and this is conceivable, depending on what he has revealed – Pôle emploi will not compensate him. The aim of this amendment is to make prevention. It would allow hesitant employees to become whistleblowers. That is the spirit of the bill: let's allow whistleblowers to exist. They must be less afraid. That would be a step forward.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u220	Mrs Alexandra Louis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u221	I would agree with the rapporteur and the Secretary of State: the status of protected employees is no more protective than what is provided for in this text, which lists a multitude of possible reprisals. I also have the same doubts about the possibility of setting up this protected status for whistleblowers, particularly as regards duration. The procedures are long, it is true, and this is a real problem, especially since revelations sometimes spread over time. However, the practical arrangements for such a measure could lead to litigation. So we would not really improve the protection of whistleblowers, especially since the bill is very specific on protections.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u222	Amendments Nos 112, 113 and 128 by the rapporteur are drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u223	Mr Philippe Dunoyer, in support of Amendment No. 83, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u224	This amendment deals with the reference provided for in paragraph 8, which may be designated to collect possible alerts. It is to be made clear that the appointment of this referent is surrounded by all the necessary guarantees of impartiality. This choice should not be made at the expense of the future whistleblower.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u225	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u226	This is an important point, and I will give an opinion in favour of Amendment No 11 by Mr Bernalicis, which sets out these guarantees of independence and impartiality, but for the major entities. In the case of an SME of a few people, there will necessarily be a direct hierarchical link or proximity... I therefore propose that you withdraw this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u227	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u228	I share the rapporteur's requirement of proportionality. I have sympathy for this amendment, but it comes a little early in my view: let us establish these guarantees for large companies, but let us keep, at least in the short term, flexibility for small structures. We will then see whether this mechanism, which is likely to undergo further development, can be adapted.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u229	Mr Philippe Dunoyer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u230	[[Smile]] After these expressions of sympathy and listening, I can only withdraw this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u231	Amendment No 46 by Mr Dominique Potier is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u232	The rapporteur's amendment No 114 is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u233	I have before me two amendments, Nos 10 and 41, which can be discussed jointly. Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor to support Amendment No. 10.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u234	This amendment was debated in committee, and you planned to discuss it again in committee. It aims to involve social dialogue bodies, where they exist, in the development of the internal procedure for collecting and dealing with alerts. In addition, it provides for a simple opinion from these same social partners to be obtained, so that they can independently validate, or not, the reporting mechanism chosen. The aim is to ensure that no company can set up this internal reporting procedure without the union being seized.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u235	Mr Dominique Potier's amendment No 41 is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u236	Indeed, I promised to check what I said in committee. The Directorate General of Administration and the Public Service (DGAFP) has confirmed to me what my experience as a business leader has taught me: "consulting" means obtaining advice from the unions, both in the public and private sectors. The amendment is therefore satisfied.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u237	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u238	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u239	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor to support Amendment No. 11.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u240	This is the amendment announced by the rapporteur: we want to make it clear that guarantees not only of independence but also of impartiality are needed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u241	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u242	We talked about it in committee, and I asked you to clarify the wording. It's done. Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u243	The rapporteur's amendment No 129 is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u244	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor to support Amendment No. 12.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u245	We want professional orders to have their own internal channel for processing and collecting reports. Without calling into question the guarantees which must prevail, this provision is intended to enable a professional interpretation of the procedure, while taking into account the necessary adaptations specific to each profession.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u246	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u247	Unfavorable opinion. Since they fall into the category of organisations of a significant size, i.e. they will exceed 50 persons, professional bodies are concerned by the compulsory establishment of an internal channel. I would add that, as we have said, they will be included in the decree in the Council of State as external entities.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u248	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u249	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u250	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor to support Amendment No. 56.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u251	It is a question of drawing the consequences of the difficulties we have encountered in making known Sapin 2 law: this law should not have the same misadventures. We would like the entities mentioned in paragraphs 8 and 9 to provide specific information. This could be the role of ethical referents in administrations, for example – you know they are dear to us. The different reporting channels must be explained.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u252	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u253	I share your willingness to improve information. But the amendment is satisfied: the employee will be able to go through the referent or the internal reporting procedure. In addition, the Defender of Rights will be there to inform. We have specified that the reference to the law will have to be included in any internal regulations: employees will know that there is a law on the protection of whistleblowers. Request for withdrawal.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u254	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u255	Same opinion. Information obligations are already important and will be specified by decree in the Council of State.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u256	I have before me three amendments, Nos 66, 99 and 152, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 66 and 99 are identical. Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor to support Amendment No. 66.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u257	We come back to the question, already raised by Mr Latomb, of the status of protected employees, provided for in the Labour Code, which we consider quite appropriate. The whistleblower, if employed, must be protected: if the words have meaning, he must have that status. The aim here is to grant this status to the "alert" referent.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u258	I call Mr Latomb to support Amendment No. 99.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u259	In the debate we had earlier, Mr rapporteur, you said that it was difficult to grant the protected employee status to the whistleblower: from when until when would he be protected? This amendment deals with the referent appointed to the company. There are no date problems here: it is protected for the period it occupies this function. We would thus avoid retaliation. I do not repeat the whole discussion, but I do not agree with what was said earlier on the fact that the status of protected employee would not be appropriate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u260	Mr Potier's amendment No 152 is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u261	To what I said earlier, I would add very quickly that the reference is appointed by the director-general of the company as part of an internal procedure: it would be strange if this appointment offered him the status of protected employee. For the reasons given earlier, and for this one, I am against these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u262	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u263	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u264	The rapporteur's amendment No 115 is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u265	Mr Philippe Dunoyer has the floor in support of Amendments Nos 84 and 85, which can be presented together.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u266	They provide for information campaigns to inform employees and administrative officials of the internal reporting procedure. Based on previous discussions, it appears that these amendments will be satisfied through regulatory measures that will impose these information campaigns. If you confirm this to me, I will withdraw these two amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u267	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u268	I have already replied on the substance, but I reiterate my approval: it is necessary to inform. First, this information will be included in all the rules of procedure. Secondly, we expect the Defender of Rights to publish a comprehensive document explaining their rights to potential whistleblowers, so it is not necessary to include it in the law. Thirdly, our late colleague Marielle de Sarnez always told us: "We will have made progress when our laws are readable. I announce that with our team, we are working on rewriting this bill "intelligible French": you know that our laws multiply references to other texts, such as the Sapin 2 law or the Labour Code; we rewrite them in such a way as to clarify all the provisions to which this bill refers.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u269	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u270	I agree with the rapporteur's analysis: the information requirements will be specified by regulation. You are right to insist on it, Mr Dunoyer, but I think it would be superfluous to make it an additional piece of legislation. I therefore call on you to withdraw these amendments, otherwise I will deliver an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u271	The next speaker is Mr Philippe Dunoyer, in support of Amendments Nos 86 and 87, which can be put together.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u272	The text of the bill lists persons who are likely to issue alerts based on information they have collected "in the course of their professional activities". We would like to supplement this provision by stating that these activities are not necessarily "professional", but can be "social" or carried out under a social mandate. In fact, whistleblowers may be agents, staff, but also shareholders, persons who exercise responsibilities on a board of directors or supervisory board, or a board of directors. I do not believe that we can speak stricto sensu of "professional" activities with regard to these people; In any case, this term is not used in the same sense as for employees or officials of an administration. It seems useful to me to at least clarify the meaning of the term "professional activities" in order to include social mandates.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u273	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u274	"Professional activities" is to be understood in a very broad sense, which includes shareholders of companies and corporate agents who have access to the internal channel. The Directive specifies all the functions concerned. We will propose an amendment to adapt it in order to enlarge it slightly. The amendments are therefore satisfied.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u275	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u276	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u277	Mr Philippe Dunoyer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u278	I trust the rapporteur and withdraw these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u279	Amendment No 150 of the committee is defended and amendment No 145 of the committee is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u280	Mr Philippe Dunoyer has the floor to support Amendment No. 88.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u281	Even this clarification may seem anecdotal, I think it is useful to supplement article 3, paragraph 19, by stating that the Defender of Rights does not have an obligation to send the whistleblower to a single authority, but that he may send it to several. Indeed, alerts do not always correspond perfectly to the missions of a single authority.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u282	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u283	You are quite right: your wording is much clearer and it would avoid having to address different authorities successively, which could paralyse the procedure. The committee's opinion is therefore in favour.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u284	Amendments Nos 119, 116 and 111 of the Committee are drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u285	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor to support Amendment No. 43.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u286	He's out.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u287	Amendment No 118 of the committee is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u288	I have before me three amendments, Nos 89, 44 and 45, which can be discussed jointly. Amendment No 44 is the subject of a sub-amendment No 159. Mr Philippe Dunoyer, in support of Amendment No. 89, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u289	It is a matter of providing for the end of the procedure for the protection of whistleblowers, which we all wish to guarantee. However, it cannot last forever. The current wording does not define the period beyond which such protection could legitimately cease. We propose that paragraph 22 provides that "the modalities for the termination of the proceedings, in particular where the external authority has found that there is no need to follow up on the alert" be specified.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u290	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor to support Amendment No. 44.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u291	It addresses the same concerns as the previous one. We want to clarify "the terms and conditions for closing alerts" in the Order-in-Council.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u292	Sub-amendment No 159 by Mr Philippe Dunoyer, to Amendment No 44, is being defended. Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor in support of Amendment No 45.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u293	It addresses the same issue and specifies that "the arrangements for notification and reasons for closing alerts" must be defined by an external competent authority.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u294	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u295	To clarify the closing arrangements seems to me a good idea. It is not acceptable to close a procedure without informing the whistleblower. I am therefore in favour of Amendment No 44; I call for the withdrawal of Amendments Nos 89 and 45 and of Subamendment No 159.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u296	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u297	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u298	Amendments Nos 142 and 141 of the Committee are drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u299	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor to support Amendment No. 57.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u300	It aims to establish an evaluation of the reporting procedures once every three years by the external competent authorities, in accordance with Article 14 of Directive 2019/ 1937, which we wanted to comply with because we are very committed to European directives.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u301	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u302	In my view, the amendment is fully satisfied, as the text mentions the conditions for evaluating the procedures. I therefore ask you to withdraw it, otherwise the committee will deliver an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u303	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u304	I am doing the same analysis as the rapporteur, and I would add that regulatory clarification will be provided if necessary.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u305	Amendments Nos 130, 131 and 132 of the Committee are drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u306	Mrs Marie-George Buffet has the floor to support Amendment No. 67.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u307	It takes up one of the recommendations of the Maison des lancers d'alert. The possibility of bringing the alert directly to the public through a journalist should be strengthened and expanded. As the National Consultative Commission on Human Rights had pointed out, if the information disclosed concerned a subject which affected the public interest, it was in the public interest to know it, and direct disclosure to a journalist should even be encouraged in cases of violations of human rights or fundamental freedoms, as well as in cases where the urgency of informing the public required direct access to a journalist. Above all, this amendment makes it possible to strengthen, in accordance with Directive 2019/ 1937, the protection of sources, by allowing sources of journalists who have seen their identity revealed, such as Raphaël Halet, to obtain the status of whistleblower.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u308	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u309	Your recommendation concerns violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms, which fall within the scope of article 3: "in case of imminent or manifest danger to the public interest". Your amendment therefore seems to me to be satisfactory on this point. Secondly, I am not in favour of extending the secrecy of sources, which many people in the community have asked me to do. The secret of sources, specific to the profession of journalist, involves an ecosystem: a charter, an ethics, an order, a training. It may not be extended to any person who is a member of an association. Finally, I would like to point out that whistleblowers enjoy strong protection, since spreading the identity of a whistleblower against his will is a criminal offence.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u310	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u311	I agree with the rapporteur's reminders. I would add that a journalist can benefit, according to the criteria set out in this text, from the protection offered to whistleblowers. In addition, any person involved in the dissemination of information may be considered a "facilitator" under the terms of this bill. All this helps to protect them. Finally, if we were to add specific categories in addition to those set out in the directive, we would be in contradiction with it. The current balance seems to me to guarantee the protection you are seeking to provide, Mrs Buffet.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u312	Amendment No 42 by Mrs Cécile Untermaier is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u313	I have before me two amendments, No 81 corrected and No 59, which may be submitted to a joint debate. I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 81, as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u314	The National Commission on Ethics and Alerts in the Field of Public Health and the Environment, mentioned by Mr.Coquerel, is a body established by the Act of 16 April 2013 of which the author is Marie-Christine Blandin, a precursor in the field of the treatment of alerts, and not only of whistleblowers. The Act provides for a list of natural or legal persons who may refer the matter to the Commission to deal with an alert. I know that the bill we are debating provides for coordination, because the Defender of Rights can refer whistleblowers to existing external authorities for their alerts to be dealt with. We believe, however, that it is possible to improve coordination by setting out an eighth criterion to refer the case to the CNDASPE, namely to be "a launcher or a whistleblower within the meaning of Article 6 of Law No 2016-1691 of 9 December 2016 on transparency, the fight against corruption and the modernisation of economic life", article amended by the bill we are currently debating. We would thus complement the system in a coherent way to deal with public health and environmental alerts.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u315	Mrs Delphine Batho has the floor to support Amendment No. 59.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u316	This amendment by my colleague Matthieu Orphelin, of which I am also a signatory, has the same purpose as the one just defended by Ugo Bernalicis. In this regard, I would like to pay tribute to Senator Marie-Christine Blandin: I was a minister when her important bill – the first on whistleblowers – was considered. These two amendments, which are intended to supplement it, are important because there have been very concrete situations in the areas of health and the environment – I am thinking of sensitive and well-known pesticide dossiers – in which whistleblowers have not been able to seize the CNDASPE. They should therefore be voted on.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u317	What is the committee's opinion on these two amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u318	We have heard from Mrs Blandin, as well as from the President of the CNDASPE, during our work. The opinion is unfavourable for a simple reason: the statutes of the CNDASPE are in law. You propose to modify them to integrate the ability to respond directly to whistleblowers. Our choice in this bill is to provide for a decree that clearly defines, in one place, by theme and in a consistent manner, the external interlocutors to be seized in order to communicate an alert. To the extent that the decree should allow us to clarify the role of each individual, it does not seem to me desirable to indicate in various places which actor is responsible for collecting what kind of alert. However, on the merits, it is true that the positioning of the CNDASPE raises questions. This has evolved with the Sapin 2 law, in a sense that the commission is contesting in some way. It is therefore all the more necessary to list in a decree all the interlocutors of the external channel and to specify what types of alerts are assigned to them. I repeat, I am not in favour of referring to the statutes of the CNDASPE elsewhere in the law. I plead to maintain the structure we propose, namely the decree, just the decree, the whole decree.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u319	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u320	I fully agree with the rapporteur's analysis. On the substance, I am not against the amendments presented here, but we will define the procedure for referral to the committee within the framework of the decree – which will have other purposes – and knowing that consultation will be organised prior to its publication.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u321	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u322	The Act defines in a comprehensive manner which actors may refer the matter to the Commission. It can also become self-reliant, so we might think that it would if a whistleblower communicated his alert to him, but to be content with this possibility would seem too inconclusive to me. Here are the seven types of people who can seize the CNDASPE: a member of the Government, a Member of Parliament or a Senator; a consumer association; an association for the protection of the environment; an association with an activity in the field of the quality of health and the care of the sick; a trade union organization; the national body of the order of a profession in the health or environmental sectors; and a public institution or body having an activity of expertise in those sectors. It should be noted, therefore, that under the Act of 16 April 2013 there is no provision for the Defender of Rights to refer the matter to the Commission, nor is there any provision for an alerting individual. Thus, I do not see how an order-in-council could provide for something that is not provided for by law. These amendments are therefore coordinated and aim to ensure that there is no oblivion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u323	Thank you, Mr. Bernalicis.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u324	I'll finish, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u325	Mrs Delphine Batho has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u326	If you agree on the substance, then it is absolutely necessary to vote on this provision, for the reasons just set out by our colleague. The decree cannot provide for anything that is not provided for by law: it is common sense. Warnings in the areas of health and the environment are fired at so that they are not treated. It was therefore of the utmost importance to change the law in that regard.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u327	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u328	That is also our point of view. Since everyone here agrees on the substance of these amendments, they should be voted on. You see this as an issue that needs to be dealt with by order-in-council, but I believe it is rather a matter of law and we need to move forward in this area to better align things.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u329	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u330	I would point out that we asked the Council of State whether we could list external interlocutors in a decree, because we were concerned about this issue. You cite the CNDASPE, but you could also have mentioned the Autorité de la concurrence or the French Anti-Doping Agency, whose statutes are also defined elsewhere in the law. The Council of State has told us that this is not a problem and that a decree will be able to specify to whom whistleblowers should be directed. As far as I am concerned, I agree with this view and believe that our provision is legally robust. Once again, the question has been asked and the Council of State has answered it clearly.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u331	Mrs. Batho, I'll pretend I didn't hear you.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u332	But I didn't say anything, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u333	I ask you not to question the sincerity of the votes, whatever the chairman of the sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u334	I wish to make a point of order!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u335	Yes, but you will wait until I put the second amendment to the vote to introduce it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u336	Mrs Delphine Batho has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u337	It is based on Rule 58, paragraph 1, since you challenged me and questioned me when I had not said anything, Mr President. I didn't say a word!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u338	A thousand apologies, Mrs. Batho. So it had to be Mrs. Fiat.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u339	You have confused two women's voices in the Chamber: I do not agree to be questioned in this way and I await your apology.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u340	Let me tell you, Mrs. Batho, your words don't grow up! I have confused two people who have spoken in our debates. In this case, I thought that it was you who spoke, because you had tabled one of the amendments put to the vote: that was the most logical thing at the moment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u341	[[Protests on a few benches of the LaREM group]] We don't have to be treated like this in the assembly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u342	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor in support of Amendments Nos 13 and 14, which can be presented together.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u343	They're out.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u344	Mr Philippe Dunoyer has the floor to support Amendment No. 90.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u345	To use an expression used earlier, it aims to fill a hole in the racket of the law of 9 December 2016 which we are seeking to complete today. Indeed, undertakings and entities which fail to comply with their obligation to establish internal alert procedures are not currently subject to any penalties. In a rather modest way, I therefore propose, by this amendment, to create a fifth class violation to sanction the failure to introduce such a procedure.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u346	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u347	It is unfavorable, but I will have several elements to answer to this important question. First, an employee who finds that the large multinational company for which he works has failed to fulfil his obligation to establish an internal channel can bring the matter before the judge – just as he could, for example, if the company had not organised the election of staff representatives. The Commission will decide the matter and may also impose a daily fine if the situation persists beyond a very short period of time. However, the provision of fines does not seem to me to be the best way to obtain the establishment of internal channels. The international companies that I have consulted, one of which employs 12,000 employees, and which have developed powerful and well-organised arrangements, have all told me. So let's not overrelegate the internal channel. I would have understood that we adopted such a measure in the examination of the Sapin 2 law, which precisely defined what the internal channel should be and which provided that it should be used as a priority, but in this case, if a company fails to establish one, or if it does not inspire confidence, is not efficient or well thought out, the sanction will be direct: the employee will resort to the external channel. However, as you know, no company manager wants an alert to be directly communicated externally, because it would be a less chance to deal with it quickly. The idea that I am deploying in this text is therefore not to overrelegate with regard to the internal channel, which is in any case put in direct competition with the external channel. For having discussed it with them, companies will be the first to want to create an internal channel as efficient as possible – I am convinced. I insist that a system of fines is not relevant because in case of blockage, an employee who complains that he does not have an internal channel in his company will refer the matter to the judge, who will decide the case. Once again, ladies and gentlemen, I urge you not to overrelegate the internal channel. A thousand ideas have been submitted to me in this area, such as the obligation to provide an internal channel per site for multinationals, but I do not believe that they are appropriate. I apologise if I have been long, but I wanted to make those clarifications, which concern several amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u348	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u349	Even if I fully agree with the rapporteur's reasoning, I will add a word, because this is a very important issue. It is the creation of the external channel that will be the best incentive to establish an internal channel spontaneously. And while there may indeed be difficulties, I also agree with the idea that in the short term there should be no over-legislation, since there is no legal vacuum. There are procedures, including the responsibility to refer them to the Government, where appropriate, to meet these obligations. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u350	Mr Philippe Dunoyer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u351	To be frank, I do not believe that to vote for this amendment would be to overrelegate. I understand that the external channel is privileged: I am in favour of it and, as I have indicated to you, I believe that your text represents a real step forward. Nevertheless, there is an internal channel and we are legislating in this area through this bill, which aims to make it more precise. In any case, it is not a question of over-legislation. The only idea behind this modest amendment is to consider that, without changing procedures and imagining that 90 or 95% of companies will be virtuous, there will remain those who will not meet their obligations. Therefore, it seems normal, necessary and unimaginative to impose a fine on this failure to comply with a legal obligation that we are going to confirm – and that is what you yourself indicate when you say that a judge will be brought before an employee who finds this defect. I therefore maintain the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u352	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u353	Without overly prolonging the debate, I believe that Mr Dunoyer's reasoning is very relevant. The argument that you are developing, rapporteur, that the internal channel would be virtuously put into competition by the external channel, is quite understandable. But if it is likely that things will happen in this way, I will bring two flats. First of all, we really want to encourage the internal path, as it is the most ethical and expected procedure. Second, whistleblowers will be much more able to act if there is an internal route, rather than if they have to turn to the external route, less legible and more distant, and seize the competent authorities. If I understand your argument, Mr rapporteur, I am not so sure that what you are proposing is as virtuous as you are saying.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u354	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u355	I'll bounce over two things. Yes, we want to promote the internal channel: it is the logical channel and in the vast majority of cases it is not a problem. For having interacted with many company representatives, I can tell you that they are not against whistleblowers. Each company makes risk mappings, including potential breaches of the law. By establishing an internal channel for whistleblowers, they reduce the risk of infringement. Companies are mature in this area: they will develop efficient internal channels. Moreover, do not take shade, Mr Dunoyer, from what I was saying: the over-legiferation to which I was referring did not concern your amendment, but referred to all the ideas that were communicated to me – a huge box of Pandora! – as regards the internal channel. I respect them, but I believe that companies should be trusted in this. We would not solve anything by imposing fines: they are not adapted here. I therefore maintain the unfavorable opinion on this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u356	The next speaker is Mr Ugo Bernalicis, in support of Amendment No 15.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u357	With this amendment, slightly modified in relation to the version presented in committee, we propose that after the launch of an alert, which will be disclosed and then dealt with, either by the internal channel or by the external channel, it is possible – without this being an obligation – to seize the competent authority to put in place a compliance plan, so as to avoid new alerts. In other words, beyond the particular case raised by the whistleblower, it is a matter of remedying a possible system effect. This proposal is based on the judicial conventions in the public interest that exist in the fight against corruption: in this type of case, a legal person in question can compromise with the public prosecutor's office by means of a judicial convention in the public interest which obliges him, in return and under the supervision of the French Anti-Corruption Agency, to put in place a plan to bring his internal mechanisms into conformity to prevent corruption. In the same vein, we want to go beyond the protection of the whistleblower and to eliminate, more broadly, the events that gave rise to the alert.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u358	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u359	In addition to what seems complicated to me, I have already explained in committee that compliance – I have had the opportunity to do a lot of it in my professional life – requires a benchmark. There is no reference here. I understand your idea, but I don't think it can translate into what you're proposing. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u360	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor to support Amendment No. 58.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u361	The aim is to propose a good practice guidance on alerts, which could be developed and disseminated by the competent external authorities referred to in Article 3. This idea is based on the recommendations of the Council of Europe, and we discussed with the rapporteur the possibility of implementing it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u362	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u363	Unfavorable opinion. A thousand times yes for a good practice guide, but not in the law. I would be delighted, if we do not see anything coming, to work with you on a specific guide for the use of whistleblowers, because that is indispensable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u364	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u365	I share the rapporteur's thousand reasons for approving this idea, but it is within the regulatory framework that it will have to be put into practice. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u366	The Secretary of State has the floor to support Amendment No. 153.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u367	The purpose of this amendment is to provide that the rules of procedure shall only be carried out by reference to the provisions of the Sapin 2 Act and shall not, for reasons of simplification of the procedures, in particular verification, make a full resumption of those provisions. This is a way of achieving the same result in a simpler way, which will facilitate the control of the administrative authorities.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u368	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 139.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u369	We adopted in committee identical amendments by Mrs Toutut-Picard and Mr Orphelin concerning the long-term retention of anonymised data. It's a good and simple idea. In fact, it is not necessary to remove reports that may prove relevant for a long time to come, particularly in the areas of public health or the environment. We have simply reworked the drafting of these amendments, which are the result of a CNDASPE proposal and which we are extending to other areas. Nevertheless, I wanted to give back to Caesar what is Caesar's, and to Mrs.Toutt-Picard and Mr.Orphelin what is theirs. I would like to take this opportunity to point out that today many of our amendments are hurried. I welcome this because it is part of the good practices that we must welcome.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u370	I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 16.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u371	The aim of this amendment is to guarantee the possibility of appeal against any decision taken in the context of the procedures for collecting an alert, which has not been formalized in the text after our discussions in committee. While we have heard that the current regulatory and legislative framework already provided for any decision to be subject to appeal before the competent courts, it is preferable to write it here black and white, specifying the remedies and time limits for appeal. This is in the direction of better legibility of the applicable law, as a whistleblower seeking recourse will first turn to this piece of legislation. I know that no one is supposed to ignore the law, but the scope of the law is vast.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u372	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u373	We had this debate in committee. I propose that we stick to the common law, which is sufficiently clear. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u374	I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 17.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u375	This amendment is important. Our aim is to create a set of reserved jobs, with the following idea: a whistleblower, even if protected or even compensated for his legal costs, may want to leave the company in which he issued the alert, either that he no longer has confidence or that he no longer corresponds to his professional desires. In order to guarantee it a way out, we hope that, as is the case for high-performance athletes or military personnel, certain public jobs will be reserved for whistleblowers. This would obviously not be an obligation for the whistleblower, but an opportunity for him to join the public service, as is the case with others.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u376	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u377	[[Smile]] Mr Bernalicis, you are telling us that this amendment is important, but all your amendments are important! I am, however, against it, because you do not take exactly the device applicable to high-performance athletes, but invent a specific procedure for whistleblowers and which is only valid for them alone, which I consider disproportionate. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u378	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u379	Creating a special route for the category of whistleblowers, however important, would be excessive and disproportionate. In addition, this could threaten the safety of the whistleblower by publicly revealing his/her identity. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u380	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u381	Indeed, I do not take up as such the job arrangements reserved for high-performance athletes, because whatever their many qualities, whistleblowers are not high-performance athletes; I am only drawing inspiration from this in order to imagine a route of access dedicated to whistleblowers, which does not seem disproportionate to me, especially since, I repeat, this is not an obligation but a possibility. De facto, some of them are blacklisted – I know that to be in touch with many of them. One, for example, displays a hole in his resume, which corresponds to the period he worked for the company in which he played the whistleblower, with which things went wrong. In a recent interview, he was asked to justify this hole. He had two possibilities: either he was lying, or he was telling the truth about what he had done. He opted for the second solution. The recruiter praised his courage and the interest of his approach, but recalled him fifteen days later to tell him that his candidacy had not finally been accepted... Even if no company will admit that it has rejected a whistleblower's candidacy, that is what is happening in practice. That is why a procedure allowing these whistleblowers to join the civil service seems to me to be an interesting safety net for the people concerned.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u382	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor to support Amendment No. 48.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u383	This amendment is nothing revolutionary; it simply proposes that the competent external authorities ensure that information on alert procedures is made publicly available and accessible.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u384	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u385	This is a good idea, but one that, again, has no place in the law, because this information is not a piece of legislation. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u386	The Secretary of State has the floor to support Amendment No. 160.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u387	This is an amendment to coordinate with Government Amendments Nos 154, 154 and 155, as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u388	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 70.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u389	The aim of this amendment is to include among the measures of reprisals or penalties prohibited the abolition of premiums due or possible, so that the undertaking or the administration employing the whistleblower cannot punish the latter abusively.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u390	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u391	This amendment is fully satisfied – unambiguously – by paragraph 5, which prohibits measures involving financial losses. So it's a request for withdrawal.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u392	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 19 and 49. I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 19.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u393	We come back to the discussion we had in Article 1, with this proposal, which this time finds its place in this part of the text. It is a question of saying that the duty of reserve is not enforceable against the whistleblower. The duty of reserve includes not only the expression of public opinion outside – in the sense, to give an example to which this House will be sensitive, where it applies to senior officials in their dealings with parliamentarians in pre-election periods – but also the disclosure of information that may call into question the functioning or reputation of a public service or an administration. However, a whistleblower in the civil service obviously exposes himself to breaching the duty of reservation in the latter sense and, at present, knowing that the procedures of the Sapin 2 Act are only imperfectly complied with, he may be subject to disciplinary proceedings on the basis of non-compliance with the obligation of reservation. Instead of forcing them to refer these disciplinary proceedings to the interim judge, I think it would be wise for us to include in the law, as a preventive measure, that it is not possible for an administration to exercise the obligation or the duty of reserve in order to attack an alerting officer.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u394	Mrs Cécile Untermaier's identical amendment No 49 is being defended. What is the committee's opinion on these amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u395	I've already answered the question. Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u396	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u397	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u398	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u399	I would like to insist, Mr rapporteur. In committee, you told me in substance: "If we had concrete examples, we might be able to discuss them. Here's one: because he came to testify before other parliamentary colleagues, one of the whistleblowers we heard, Amar Benmohamed, is again being prosecuted in his administration, the national police – specifically the police prefecture of Paris – for failing to comply with his obligation to reserve. He had, moreover, fully respected the procedure of the Sapin 2 law. We're here! Rather than saying, "Sure that our text is voted, so that it can make an injunction and defend itself" – knowing that, in any case, the law is not retroactive – it is better to write black on white than the duty of reserve is not enforceable against whistleblowers. In this way, the human resources services of administrations will know that they cannot and will not do so, which will avoid many difficulties.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u400	I call Mr Marleix to support Amendment No. 133.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u401	It aims to extend to the facilitators the enhanced protection provided for in Article 5, in particular by exempting them from civil liability in the event of disclosure of elements usually covered by secrecy. In the text, protection is provided only for whistleblowers. However, the facilitator, who may be a natural person, may also find himself in a situation comparable to the situation that Ugo Bernalicis was referring to at the moment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u402	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u403	This amendment is fully satisfied. Article 2 of the text states that Article 10-1 of Law No. 2016-1691 of 9 December 2016 and Article 122-9 of the Criminal Code concerning criminal irresponsibility also apply to facilitators. Contrary to the previous amendment, for which I recommended not to go any further, this amendment is really satisfactory.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u404	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u405	I also believe that the amendment is satisfied with Rule 10(1) referred to by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u406	Mr Philippe Dunoyer, in support of Amendment No. 91, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u407	It is an amendment of confirmation, in order to be of course that the decree mentioned in article 5 V, which will define the procedure for the application of the procedure allowing the whistleblower who considers that a procedure of reprisal is launched against him to gag him to ask the judge to grant him a provision for the costs of the proceedings to be borne by the aggressor – or should I say of the attacker – will prescribe the period during which this procedure will be likely to be called by the whistleblower.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u408	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u409	I am against it because it creates an additional risk of circumvention of the procedure. Even if the procedure is launched several years later, the question is whether or not there is reprisal: if there is reprisal, there will be punishment. There must be no reprisals, even two years after the facts.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u410	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u411	Same opinion. The amendment could weaken the protection afforded by the scheme.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u412	I have before me four identical amendments, Nos 96, 97, 124 and 136. Mr Raphaël Gauvain has the floor to support Amendment No. 96.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u413	This amendment, which I mentioned in general discussion, proposes a way to strengthen the protection of whistleblowers, which the bill wants to make more effective. During the hearings, the speakers raised the issue of gag procedures: one of the tools used to destabilize whistleblowers is to increase the number of legal proceedings that cause them to incur extremely important costs, including legal fees. The bill provides for a mechanism by which the judge may compel the party attacking to pay the costs of the other party's counsel. During the discussions in the Law Commission, it was felt necessary to expand this mechanism in order to allow the judge to provide financial assistance in excess of the lawyer's fees to the whistleblower. That is the point of the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u414	I call Mr Latombe to support Amendment No. 97.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u415	This is the same as those tabled by our colleague and by the majority groups. This complement represents a real plus, and it would be desirable for national representation to vote unanimously for its adoption. The amendment guarantees to whistleblowers that if any of them are in a difficult situation, the State, through the judge, can protect them: this sends a strong signal to all those who would like to launch an alert. I call my colleagues unanimously; I think we can agree, given everyone's interventions in the joint debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u416	Amendment No 124 by Mrs Alexandra Louis is being defended. The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 136.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u417	Financial support for whistleblowers has been a major theme of our work in committee. Several ideas were raised, including the possibility of a fund, but the Constitutional Council had censored a provision of the Sapin 2 Act to enable the Defender of Rights to manage the fund. In this text, we have introduced the possibility of it being managed by external authorities. However, the provision may still be subject to reservations by the Council of State, whose response we are awaiting. By taking back our copy, and reworking the subject after the commission, we found a good solution. What is she? First, there is common law, with unemployment benefits, etc. Ms. Haugen said: "In our home, you have to have health insurance in order to be treated"; We don't have this problem in France. Second, there are damages related to reprisals, i.e. compensation for unfair dismissal. But they can be paid three to four years after the facts. Third, the whistleblowers tell us: "I earn debt: trial after trial, I have to pay my lawyers; I win every time, but the interest in front of me launches a new procedure to crush me. He knows he's going to lose, but he also knows I'm going to get more in debt. To counter this, we offer an innovative and efficient device. I thank Mr de Montgolfier and his teams, who have worked hard on the technical aspect of this legal innovation to allow the judge, at any time and in a short time, to decide to charge the costs of the defence to the attack. Finally, as you recalled, Mr. Bernalicis, one of the whistleblowers testified that she had been without money for several months. We have therefore introduced the concept of subside in the context of the damage covered by the article: the judge may, by using the same mechanism, grant to the person against whom proceedings have been initiated a subside enabling him to meet his immediate needs at the expense of the attacking party. I am sending an extremely favourable opinion to this amendment. We all worked together on the subject; If we had had more time, we would have communicated it to all the groups to co-sign it, but the deadline was tight and we were forced to limit ourselves to the groups with which we had worked directly. I hope that it will be supported by the National Assembly as a whole, because it responds effectively to all the financial needs of whistleblowers. I would add that we, Mr Gauvain and myself, have tabled another amendment which proposes to go a step further by allowing the judge to consider, at any stage of the procedure, that this provision is definitively acquired, which will prevent the whistleblower from potentially having to repay these sums.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u418	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u419	I agree with the rapporteur's extremely favourable opinion. I welcome Mr Gauvain's initiative, thanks to which this mechanism has been found, which represents further progress and a very important step forward; I welcome all the groups that have participated in this work, as well as yours, rapporteur. I also thank you for the tribute to the services of the Ministry of Justice. This is an important step forward that we can welcome, in the spirit of the essential parliamentary construction of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u420	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u421	I am not going to break your enthusiasm: our group will of course vote for this amendment, which is the result of the work carried out in the committee, which you have been able to make a useful success.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u422	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u423	We are very pleased with this development, which replaces the financial fund that we were unable to set up because we could not designate a competent authority. This mechanism seems to us to be quite interesting. One question: the psychological support mentioned in Article 20 of the directive is not included in this.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u424	It'll be up to the judge to decide!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u425	One might imagine that these subsidies would also be allocated to support the psychological support of the whistleblower. This is not specified in the amendment, but the judge's interpretation is often close to the law.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u426	Mr Loïc Kervran has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u427	The Group of the European People's Party, which tabled Amendment No 124, joins other groups of the majority in strengthening the protection of the whistleblower, particularly in financial terms. In doing so, it is in keeping with the intent of the proposed legislation, which seeks to address all obstacles to disclosure, including reprisals.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u428	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u429	Since we are trying to build a consensus, it seems to me important that all those who have worked on the text should be able to express themselves. It is clear that we are in trouble: since the Government does not propose a solution, article 40 of the Constitution obliges us to make proposals such as this one. I do not blame you, Mr rapporteur, for this, and I will vote in favour of the amendment: that is always the case, even if it is necessary to be subject to legal proceedings in order to benefit from the financial assistance it introduces.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u430	That's normal.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u431	I am addressing the Government, as there is an urgent need to provide effective financial assistance to whistleblowers. The government has to get wet on the shuttle! As parliamentarians, we are bound by Article 40, but we need perspectives. I understand that Mr. Custody of Seals is not there, since he does not agree with the text, but the Government could still make proposals on this matter.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u432	Mr Philippe Dunoyer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u433	The IDU and independent group, although not a signatory to the amendments, joins this approach and this proposal, the quality and innovation of which should be noted.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u434	Mr Raphaël Gauvain has the floor to support Amendment No. 137.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u435	As the rapporteur has pointed out, it is intended to give the judge, in the interests of fairness, the possibility of deciding that the sum awarded to the whistleblower as a subside or to cover the costs of lawyers in civil proceedings remains definitively acquired from him, even if he loses the procedure. Mr Bernalicis, I am sorry to contradict you, but it is a good system, which gives effective protection to whistleblowers. We have discussed this at length in committee, and the system of funds that you are proposing to introduce is not working. It is a problem of fairness: we cannot ask a fund to try a case on its merits even though it is pending before the courts. With this amendment, we are strengthening the system that we have set up, which will not only cover the legal costs of whistleblowers, but also provide them with financial support. We are providing a concrete, effective and even, as the extremely powerful rapporteur pointed out, in accordance with, once again...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u436	Thank you, Mr. Gauvain.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u437	... to the main objective of this bill, which is to protect.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u438	I have before me three identical amendments, Nos 72, 77 and 147. Amendment No 72 by Mrs Marie-George Buffet is being defended. Mr Hubert Julien-Laferrière has the floor to support Amendment No. 77.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u439	As we know, the associations also allow whistleblowers to remain anonymous, acting in their place – the case of Greenpeace is known, but there are many others. However, they do not enjoy the status of a whistleblower; They may therefore be subject to criminal proceedings which also permit the identification of their source. It is therefore necessary to protect associations and enable them to protect the anonymity of their sources. The current system not only endangers the whistleblower, it also discourages him from working with associations. This amendment seeks to remedy this situation by allowing NGOs to protect their sources.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u440	I call Mr Molac to support Amendment No. 147.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u441	I agree with Mr Julien-Laferrière's argument. The amendment was suggested by the Maison des lancers d'alert in order to protect the sources.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u442	What is the opinion of the committee on these identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u443	I have already given my opinion on this question: the secrecy of sources is provided for a profession to which training and ethics correspond, journalism, and cannot be extended to all employees. It wouldn't work. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u444	The rapporteur's amendment No 138 is precise.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u445	Mr Philippe Dunoyer has the floor to support Amendment No. 92.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u446	It aims to avoid a possible contradiction. I will listen carefully to the rapporteur's clarifications to ensure that it is not unnecessary. Article 122-9 of the Criminal Code provides, under certain conditions, for criminal liability in the event of the disclosure of secrets protected by law. However, in this draft law, Article 5 extends this system of irresponsibility, while Article 1 excludes from the alert regime, inter alia, the secrecy of national defence and the professional secrecy of the lawyer. The purpose of this amendment is therefore to clarify that the disclosure of the secrets referred to in article 1, paragraph 3, may not give rise to the exemption from liability provided for in article 122-9 of the Criminal Code and extended to article 5 of this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u447	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u448	Rest assured, your amendment is fully satisfied. Article 122-9 of the Criminal Code provides that irresponsibility applies only to alerts complying with the conditions laid down in Article 6 of the Law of 9 December 2016; The latter already lists the secrets excluded from the alert regime. In any case, thank you for your alert – if I may say so.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u449	The Secretary of State has the floor to support Amendments Nos 154, 154 and 155, as amended, which can be presented in a consolidated format.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u450	Like Amendment No 160, which I defended earlier, these two amendments are intended to coordinate the provisions of this bill with those of the Sapin 2 Act for certain specific regulatory arrangements provided for in the Labour Code.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u451	What is the committee's opinion on these two amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u452	I'm totally in favour of it. They make it possible to align the existing one with the so-called one.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u453	The rapporteur's amendment No 126 is precise.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u454	The next speaker is Mr Hubert Julien-Laferrière, in support of Amendment No 79, which sets out the additional rule after Rule 7.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u455	We know the risks that whistleblowers are taking. They can be discriminated against, dismissed and even excluded from the labour market. The aim of this amendment is to facilitate their vocational retraining, in particular by providing them with the benefit of absences for training and derogations from the seniority conditions necessary to benefit from a vocational transition project. It is also the result of a proposal from the Maison des lancers d'alert.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u456	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u457	Your intention is commendable, I understand it, but that is not the choice we have made. I would also like to recall that we have provided many guarantees in the face of reprisals. You propose to introduce an absence permit to take training for retraining in case of employability problems. This is not the right solution; I'm unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u458	The Government's amendment No. 161 is a coordination amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u459	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No 127.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u460	It aims to clarify the procedures for publishing judgements in case of reprisals against a whistleblower.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u461	The Secretary of State has the floor to support Amendment No. 156, which sets out the additional rule after Rule 9.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u462	It aims to combat the so-called gag procedures to which whistleblowers may be subjected. They are sometimes prosecuted before the criminal courts for defamation on the initiative of the persons they challenge. This was particularly the case in the Mediator case. At present, article 392-1 of the Code of Criminal Procedure allows the court of judgement, when it pronounces a release by direct summons of the civil party, and if it considers that the initiation of the public action has been abusive or dilatory, to impose a civil fine against the civil party. However, when the public action is brought by way of a civil suit before the investigating judge, the criminal court cannot propose such sanctions when it is brought before it. This limitation is harmful. The purpose of this amendment is to remedy this imbalance in criminal procedure; it is important to complete the protection of whistleblowers.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u463	What is the committee's opinion on this amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u464	I'm totally in favour of it. It was an anomaly of our right: according to the procedure chosen, it was possible or not to request civil reparations. This provision will directly benefit whistleblowers.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u465	The rapporteur's amendment No 123 is precise.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u466	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No 125.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u467	It aims to open up to external authorities the possibility of pooling the psychological or financial support measures they provide. The idea had arisen on a number of occasions, during debates on internal warning channels for small SMEs, but also on external authorities. She's very good. We took it back.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u468	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor to support Amendment No. 50.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u469	This amendment aims to ensure the effectiveness of the temporary psychological and financial support provided to whistleblowers, the importance of which was recalled earlier. If a person's financial situation has seriously deteriorated as a result of an alert, the external authorities could establish a joint support mechanism. In fact, I thought that this amendment would fall with the adoption of Amendment No 125 – which we supported, because we find ourselves there. So I'm gonna take it off.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u470	On the vote on the proposal for an ordinary law, the Group of the European Democratic Movement (MODEM) and the Group of the European People's Party (Allied Democrats) has asked for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u471	I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 27.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u472	We propose that whistleblowers should be entitled to witness status under X, which is already provided for in the Code of Criminal Procedure for particularly exposed persons, in trials following the warnings they have issued. In this way, whistleblowers will avoid the damage caused by breaking anonymity, which is a guaranteed starting point in internal and external reporting procedures. This would make it possible to complete the device: let us seize this opportunity!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u473	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u474	Unfavorable opinion. We believe that it is better to remain in common law. A whistleblower can already testify under X, if he satisfies the conditions laid down in the common law, namely the risk incurred by him or his relatives. You propose to systematize the use of this possibility. As before, I reply: "No to systematization! »
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u475	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u476	I share the rapporteur's approach: we must not systematize things. Under the conditions laid down in Articles 706-57 and 706-58 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, it is permissible under ordinary law to do so; It therefore also protects whistleblowers. Therefore, there is no need to create a specific regime for them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u477	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u478	In order to inform our discussion, I would point out that we are simply proposing that whistleblowers be given witness status under X if they so request. Let us understand, it is not a matter of forcing them to do so.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u479	Yes, that's very clear!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u480	[[Caroline Fiat applauds]] One might think, to hear you, that I absolutely want them to always testify under X!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u481	The Secretary of State has the floor to support Amendments Nos 158 and 157, introducing an additional Rule after Rule 11, which may be presented in a consolidated form.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u482	They follow exactly the same logic as Amendments Nos 154 and 155, as corrected, which I tabled a moment ago, and are intended, in the words of the rapporteur, to "align the existing with the so-called one" in the field of social and family action and in the financial field.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u483	Mr Philippe Dunoyer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u484	As I indicated in the general discussion, I had tabled an amendment to point out a difficulty, in my opinion of major importance, but it was declared inadmissible. This is not a novelty: this text, like many others, concerns fields of competence, particularly legal ones, which are sometimes the responsibility of the communities of the Pacific, in particular New Caledonia and French Polynesia. This is the case with the provisions amending the Labour Code and the Commercial Code. In a few moments, this bill will be passed unanimously – at least I hope so. However, if the amendments to the Labour Code which are intended to prohibit certain sanctions are not transposed for the authorities concerned, there will remain a part of the territory of the Republic in which whistleblowers will not benefit from the protection guaranteed by the text. The amendment I had tabled was inspired by the mechanism adopted, following identical reflections, at the time of the review of the bioethics law. In order to enable the full implementation of the provisions of the text in those Territories, the Government had proposed to legislate by ordinances after eighteen months, after work in collaboration with the local authorities – the Government and Congress of New Caledonia – to ascertain who was competent in what areas and what adjustments to the texts were necessary, since the substantive debate had already taken place in Parliament. The Chair of the Law Commission is very familiar with the issue, such as the difficulties in articulating competences. I wanted to draw the attention of the rapporteur and the Secretary of State to this issue. Congress will have to adopt measures, but tonight I will have a pinch in my heart thinking that this text, which I fully support, will not apply in the territory I represent.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u485	I call Mr Sylvain Waserman to support Amendment No. 140, as amended, with the additional Rule after Rule 12a.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u486	The system we have designed to organise financial support for whistleblowers is good. However, it will have to be evaluated. The purpose of this amendment was to request a report from the Government on this matter. But we have been working on the text for three years, we have drafted it and defended it: I propose that we evaluate it ourselves, or rather that we leave it to our successors in Parliament. I therefore withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u487	I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 18.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u488	It is intended to request a report to assess the reality of the procedures in place in each jurisdiction. I will repeat it as many times as it takes: yes, Members can write reports, and even carry out evaluations – as a member of the Public Policy Review and Control Committee, I will not say the opposite. I would even add that more directors must be assigned to this committee, so that it can do more checks. Nevertheless, a Government report provides an interesting additional perspective for forming an opinion. I would point out that in the National Assembly we do not have the administrative means of a ministry. If you give them to me tomorrow, I will do without government services. But that's not the case. In particular, the text authorises the use of the interim measure procedure. However, there is a problem with referenda, particularly in terms of effectiveness and timeliness: they are supposed to be rapid procedures, but unfortunately this is not always the case. Everything is based on the effectiveness of the devices we adopt, and this is crucial. However, there is a flaw: the judge in interim proceedings can be referred to the court for the defence attorney's expenses to be charged to the party who is attacking, but what about the legal expenses that must be incurred in order to refer the case to the judge for interim relief? I stress this small failure: if we want to create a "free" procedure for whistleblowers, we must fill this gap.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u489	Can we consider that Amendment No 20, as corrected, which concerns the same subject, is being defended?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u490	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u491	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u492	It is against Amendments No 18 as corrected and No 20 as corrected, for the reasons I have already expressed. Let us not forget that the proposed organic law entrusts a new role to the Defender of Rights: it will prepare an annual report on alert launches in France. For the first time, an actor will present the overview he or she has at his or her disposal, thanks in particular to the obligation on each external authority to provide him or her with information on an annual basis.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u493	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u494	Like the rapporteur, I give an opinion on both amendments, although the second has not yet been presented. It is unfavourable, for the same reasons. With regard to Amendment No 18, as corrected, the administration will provide Parliament with all the information relating to the procedures put in place in the context of the evaluation and monitoring missions which Parliament will not fail to exercise.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u495	I'm sorry, Mr. Bernalicis, I didn't see that you asked for the floor. It is up to you to support Amendment No 20, as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u496	In the future, I will have to think about putting myself at the centre of the House! It is important to check the effectiveness of the procedures for monitoring the devices we vote, in particular through the reports prepared by various bodies: our aim is not to please us by adopting beautiful texts, although I agree that it is possible, but to adopt effective measures. In 2021, the teams of the Defender of Rights were made up of 230 full-time equivalents (FTEs); 250 are planned for 2022. His missions are tentacular. He has many responsibilities, including the ethics of security, which has led the public debate in recent years. The President of the Republic asked him to create a platform to estimate discrimination in the country. He was given missions, missions and missions, but the number did not necessarily follow. I repeat: they will have to be significantly increased, in particular in order for it to give us detailed reports, necessary to verify the effectiveness of such devices. I withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u497	Do you also withdraw the following amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u498	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u499	[[Smile]] It was a good attempt!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u500	I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 21.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u501	It aims to request a report in order to assess the relevance of developing a code for the launcher and whistleblower. I hope that the shuttle will move quickly and that this bill will be finally adopted before the presidential election and the end of the session. It will then be imperative to consolidate all the procedures thus provided into a beautiful and single document. Indeed, the text tends to amend the 2016 law; the provisions are divided into different codes; In the case of remedies and time limits, it is the common law that applies, but not everyone knows the common law. I know that the Defender of Rights had done this work for the Sapin 2 law, in a document that was indeed clumsy and complicated to understand. Clarity is essential: whistleblowers are not necessarily law specialists.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u502	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u503	Unfavorable opinion. I don't think there's any point in developing a code. However, I have already mentioned the importance attached to the drafting of an understandable document: I will be happy to send you the one that will be ready in a few days or weeks, after the examination of the text. All legal texts are grouped in a legible way for our fellow citizens. Readability is essential: the subject does not require codification, but it deserves parliamentary work to this degree of completion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u504	We have completed our review of the sections of the bill. Explanations of vote will take place after consideration of the articles of the proposed organic law. This is the only area in which I could make a choice; I decided that there would be only one set of explanations of vote, after the discussion of the articles of the second text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u505	I put the whole bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u506	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 52 Number of votes cast 52 Absolute majority 27 For adoption 52 Against 0
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u507	I now call, in the text of the committee, the articles of the proposed organic law.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u508	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor to support Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u509	We have already mentioned the subject during the consideration of the bill. The purpose of this amendment is to ask the Defender of Rights to draw up a good practice guide. I have heard your arguments, Mr. Rapporteur. Nevertheless, I maintain it, hoping to go further in the clear and intelligible reformulation of information for our citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u510	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u511	I've already answered. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u512	Amendments Nos 4 and 5 by the rapporteur are drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u513	I call Mr Marleix to support Amendment No. 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u514	At the same time, I will defend Amendment No 3, which follows it, while stressing my preference for the first amendment. This text is of paramount importance. Making the Defender of Rights the preferred contact point for whistleblowers is an excellent solution; In particular, it is important for him to bear the burden of certifying the good faith of the whistleblower and the sincerity of his approach, since this aspect is most lacking in the rule of law. Still, he has to give an answer. This is not always the case: Raphaël Gauvain and I auditioned whistleblowers who testified that they had asked the Defender of Rights without ever having obtained an answer. The Defender has an important responsibility; the amendment tends to make it clear that it must reply within six months, which I believe is correct.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u515	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u516	Amendments Nos 2 and 3 have not been considered by the committee. We discussed this at length with the Defender of Rights. I think that many of us will support the first: we would not be credible by imposing a six-month deadline on the external authorities to deal with an alert if we refused to allow the Defender of Rights to be subject to the same deadline to grant the status of whistleblower. That would be absurd. I am aware of the problems of means. I believe, however, that in no case should a difficulty of this nature, found at an instant T, determine the work of the legislator, in particular concerning a measure which is not revolutionary, but seems reasonable and necessary. [[Mr. Ugo Bernalicis applauds]] In my personal capacity, I therefore give a very favourable opinion, and I thank you for taking this initiative.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u517	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u518	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] This is a reasonable time; in general enthusiasm, I will follow the rapporteur to give a favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u519	Amendment No 3 by Mr Olivier Marleix was defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u520	On the basis of the silence of the administration, Amendment No 3 aims to grant the status of whistleblower when the Defender of Rights has not ruled within six months. This has far too many consequences; I suggest you take it out, or I'll give you an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u521	The rapporteur's amendment No 6 is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u522	The rapporteur's amendment No 7 is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u523	We have completed our review of the articles of the proposed organic law. In the absence of a request for a public ballot, the vote on the whole will be taken by show of hands, after explanations of vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u524	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u525	I'm going to try to set the example by not being too long, Mr. President. The discussions, the work done previously, whether in committee or upstream, as well as the work carried out elsewhere – I had the honour of working with you at the Council of Europe, Mr. Rapporteur – have made it possible to take another important and progressive step in the consideration of whistleblowers, with a more appropriate protection, definition and better differentiated internal and external channels. Of course, we would have liked to go a little further; We talked about it. I have taken note of the elements that need to be deepened, so that concerns can be resolved in the consideration of other texts under this Parliament. But we would have liked to do so now, because we must never put back to tomorrow what we can do today. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] The Socialist and Related Group supports the two legislative proposals and welcomes the concrete work done with colleagues from the various parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u526	Mr Loïc Kervran has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u527	What have we just done by voting on this bill? We have just protected those who, with courage, ethics and conscience, take risks to protect society. There is probably no more noble task for the legislator than to provide this protection. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups. – Ms. Marietta Karamanli also applauds]] In doing so, we dedicate those for whom the ethics, alerting and information of the general public are not a profession, but who, in a complex world that no longer supports infringements of the general interest, make the most beautiful profession in the world, that of a citizen. In this we are doing democratic work and perhaps even civilizational work. The Group of the European People's Party will of course take its part in this by voting on this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u528	Mr Philippe Dunoyer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u529	[[Applause on the benches of the UDI-I group, as well as on some benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Mr rapporteur, this is the time, once again and in all sincerity, to thank you for the work you have done upstream and downstream, a constructive work which has enabled us to express ourselves and to be heard about amendments aimed at enriching a text which, as you said at the outset, is ours. I have to say this, because this is not always the case: we have really felt the shared will to build, on an essential subject that we have already talked about a lot and on which I will not come back. Tonight, we will do useful work – certainly unanimously. Thanks for the work. Of course, the IDU and independent group will vote in favour of this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u530	Mr Paul Molac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u531	We are making the popular adage lie "Woe to the one by whom the scandal happens! " We need whistleblowers, because we need transparency, because democracy is balance and this balance is always unstable. We need these people who sometimes prevent some of us – less virtuous, we say – from doing completely unacceptable things. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] We had the dual pleasure of having a rapporteur who has been fully involved in the text and has been able to provide precise answers. The Liberties and Territories Group is very pleased to vote in favour of these bills.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u532	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u533	I will explain the vote we have already taken, unanimously as everyone has noticed. It is important that we vote unanimously, because we send a very strong political signal: whistleblowers are not people to blacklist, pariahs, problems, scales or delators, they are essential antibodies against a whole bunch of drifts. They are a benefit to the general interest, but also a reflection of various dysfunctions that must be addressed elsewhere and the result of the absence of collective protection mechanisms that did not exist or no longer exist. However, there is still work on the trade. We have had a good discussion and we have obtained unanimity on the basis of this text. I hope that honourable senators will make a useful contribution, and I would like to renew an alert to the Government that it will make an effective proposal for financial relief – not compensation or the payment of the costs of justice alone, but financial assistance that responds to the various situations that we have not considered. These cases, possible and imaginable, are numerous in the course of a whistleblower and we could not include them all in a text. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] I'm going back to the right of asylum. We were several groups defending an amendment on this subject. As the law stands, it is possible to apply for asylum when you are a whistleblower and to obtain a positive response. I say this for Julian Assange and others, it would be important for us to have a form of unanimity in the National Assembly regarding this defender of freedoms. On this specific case, we would honor each other for the rest. It is important, particularly from the point of view of the sovereignty of our country, to recall that Julian Assange did not just provide information of general interest to the world: he gave information particularly concerning France. It was he who revealed that three successive presidents of the Republic had been tapped – three successive presidents of the Republic, not three passers-by in the street! We can say we don't care, but I don't care, and I don't think anyone here cares: it's important to remember our independence. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group, as well as on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups. – MM. Cédric Villani and Hubert Julien-Laferrière also applaud]] This text is useful; It's a point of support for the rest. The group La France insoumée will do everything possible to ensure that what it foresees is effective for launchers and whistleblowers. I would like to thank once again the rapporteur, as well as the colleagues from the majority, the Republicans, the MODEM and all the groups in reality, for everyone has contributed to this work. We attended meetings, before the debates, to try to go as far as possible. From the memory of young parliamentarians, it is perhaps the only text in four and a half years for which we have managed to operate in this way. Congratulations again to all of us and all of us!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u534	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u535	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] The Group of the Democratic and Republican Left will not give a discordant note to this fine unanimity. We believe that these texts make more protective progress in favour of whistleblowers and offer a wider status, as well as better protection of their identity. Even if things remain to be resolved, these elements are sufficient for us to express a positive vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u536	Mr Raphaël Gauvain has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u537	Ladies and gentlemen, I would simply like to thank you: this afternoon we have done a useful job. Not only will the text be adopted unanimously, which has already happened in this House, but above all, it has the peculiarity of ensuring the continuity of public policy for the protection of whistleblowers, born under the previous legislature and which continues under this legislature, with another majority. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] By adopting it unanimously, we give much more weight to the text and ensure the continuity of this public policy. Laws have already been adopted here unanimously, but there are not many subjects for which such continuity can be ensured, in various majorities. Thank you, once again: this afternoon we will have done a useful work.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u538	Mr Olivier Marleix has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u539	Members of the Republican Group will obviously vote in favour of this text, with which we are doing useful and concrete work. I would also like to welcome the understanding with which the rapporteur has worked and prepared the text, which is effective and balanced. Our unanimity is a fine tribute to people who, in the name of values, in the name of ethics, do not hesitate to put themselves in danger and to go against their personal interest to alert society to an issue of general interest that exceeds them. I would nevertheless like to express my regret, since we are going back to one of the chapters of the Sapin 2 law when we come to a European directive. I very sincerely regret that the Government did not want to go further in updating this law on which we, our colleague Raphaël Gauvain and myself, have worked hard to formulate concrete proposals. The other aspects of the Sapin 2 law also require quite urgent developments. I am thinking, in particular, of the judicial agreement in the public interest, which may run the risk of running out of steam if one does not know how to resolve the issue of natural persons – who are in a particular situation, since they self-declare themselves in these proceedings.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u540	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u541	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group, as well as on some benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] I am also thinking of the issue of lobbying the representatives of interests, on which the Group of States against Corruption (GRECO) of the Council of Europe has drawn up a not totally flattering assessment for our country. Finally, I am thinking more generally of the tools and facilitation of the anti-corruption policy, on which we could go a little further. The multi-year national anti-corruption plan is a nine-page document; He's kind of indigent. The rest of the Sapin 2 law would also require an update. I hope this will be one of our next appointments. In the meantime, thank you again, Mr. Rapporteur, for your work.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u542	Mr Philippe Latomb has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u543	Of course, the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats will vote in favour of this text and welcome the unanimity it has received. Beyond the fact that the rapporteur comes from his benches and that the text is adopted, our group is proud, because we are doing a useful job – as you have all said; It is also proud because it is a bill, a parliamentary initiative, which allows Parliament to transpose a European directive – unanimously. It makes us proud to sit on these benches, and even more so to do useful work. It is much more flattering and important for us to show support for whistleblowers when it comes from a parliamentary initiative. That is what – in addition to unanimity and everything that has been done – makes us proud. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem and LaREM groups]] Finally, we managed to achieve unanimity, while having sometimes somewhat different views. We have reached a text where we all find each other. Perhaps it is not yet fully achieved; It will have to be reworked, because society and practices are changing. In the long run, it may be necessary to further strengthen whistleblowers, because they will need additional protections in the face of other technological innovations. But today, we took a big step: we went beyond the Sapin 2 law and we took over the place France should have in protecting whistleblowers. We are proud and will vote for this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u544	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u545	I put to the vote the whole of the organic bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u546	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u547	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] I'll be very brief. I just want to welcome what has happened right now: a very great democratic breakthrough, of which we can be proud. This was recalled, in particular by Raphaël Gauvain: it was during the previous legislature that France had already been a pioneer in the field of warning launcher protection. I am particularly proud that it is within a European framework that we put in place this mechanism, that we enrich and complement national law through constructive parliamentary work and a bill – indeed, it is atypical and deserves to be welcomed – underlined by this fine unanimity. The European framework and the French framework are very protective. I have no doubt that they will live and adapt in the coming years, but I really want to salute this collective work. The House can be very proud – you in particular, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u548	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u549	[[Smile]] The president promised to cut off my microphone if I was too long; So I'll be very brief.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u550	Twenty o'clock!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u551	It'll be before 20 o'clock, Mr. President, I promise you! In the first place, I have a thought for these women and these men launchers and whistleblowers. Our unanimity is the most beautiful of the tributes that can be paid to them, with a strong acknowledgment on all the benches of the House. [[Applause on all benches]] Secondly, I would like to express my thanks to my team: a parliamentary initiative is ours and our little arms, but also the collaborators who assist us and who have worked on the subject. [[Same movements]] Of course, I extend these thanks to the administrators and teams of the Assembly, as well as to the Ministry of Justice and the Council of State, who gave us a look without which we could not have resulted in these texts. [[Same movements]] Finally, I thank all of you for the way we have come and for this unanimity. It's this kind of moment that makes you happy to be a member of Parliament. Thank you for your words to me. Thank you all and very soon.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-17-O1064.u552	Next meeting, tomorrow, at 9 a.m.: Discussion, on the report of the Joint Joint Committees, of proposals for an organic and ordinary law on the modernization of public financial management; Discussion of the bill on recognition of the nation and reparation for the harm suffered by harkis, returnees and their families. The meeting is adjourned.
