ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u1	The next item is the continuation of the discussion of the draft law on criminal responsibility and internal security (No. 4387, 4442).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u2	This afternoon, the Assembly continued its discussion of the articles of the bill, concluding with section 19, which was considered as a matter of priority.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u3	Mr Jean-Michel Mis, rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, supported Amendment No. 422 of the Law Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u4	This correction amendment is intended to restore the original wording of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u5	The Minister for the Interior has the floor to give the Government's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u6	Favourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u7	The rapporteur, Mr Jean-Michel Mis, has the floor to support Amendment No. 423 of the Committee on Laws.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u8	It aims to make adjustments and clarifications in the drafting of the provision resulting from the work of the Law Commission on the simplification of procedures.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u9	Mr Buon Tan has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u10	Article 5 substantially reinforces the penalties applicable to the offence of refusing to comply with a warning to stop. On behalf of the LaREM Group, I would like to welcome these provisions, as it is in my view essential to prevent and punish these behaviour more strongly. Refusing to obey a summons to stop is, above all, denying and challenging the authority of the State, the strength of law and the law, the rules for living together, which is also at the heart of public space. Such behaviour endangers absolutely all people in the vicinity: pedestrians, cyclists, other motorists and, of course, the law enforcement forces themselves, who sometimes pay the price of their lives. These facts are far from anecdotal. Today, a refusal to comply is recorded every 17 minutes in France. Of the eleven police officers and gendarmes who died in the course of their duties in 2020, more than half had lost their lives when they refused to comply. We must guarantee the security of our law enforcement agencies and pacify public space at all costs. This article contains a series of administrative and judicial measures that allow for this. In this way, the driver's licence of the forerunner can now be immediately withheld, and the prefect may temporarily suspend him in case of aggravated refusal. The confiscation of the vehicle will also be made simpler and will even be systematized in case of recidivism, as will the cancellation of the driving licence. Finally, the penalties are increased. They are increased to two years' imprisonment and a fine of 15000 euros and, in case of endangering the law enforcement agencies carrying out this control, seven years' imprisonment and a fine of 100,000 euros will be incurred. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] To discourage the move to action, to punish more heavily refusals to comply, to protect those who protect us better: this is the spirit of this article which, I hope, can be applied as quickly as possible for the good and for the safety of all.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u11	I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 222, which deletes Rule 5.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u12	It is in fact intended to delete the article, in line with the argument developed throughout the afternoon by the keeper of the seals, which indicated, pointing to the right of the House, that it was unbearable to spend its time increasing the quantum of sentences – from five to six years, then from six to eight or ten years – and their scale, not to mention the creation of new offences with a view to making political signs. He even added that it was not demonstrated that the increase in the quantum of sentence would effectively and effectively reduce the level of delinquency. Instead, the social sciences have shown the opposite, pointing out that this increase has no kind of consequence. Indeed, persons who refuse to comply do not do so by hand. Moreover, it has been found that refusals to comply are sometimes committed by members of the Ministry of the Interior and major police chiefs who, in Paris, can burn a red light, refuse to comply and commit an offence of escape. I'm not the one who tells it. I'm the one who tells it. Of course, there is a refusal to comply every 17 minutes, but obviously there is a recent one that has had to deal with you, Mr. Minister of the Interior. It can therefore be seen that, in the end, this policy is neither effective nor effective, on the understanding that refusal to comply is indeed a problem. However, we will not settle it, as you do, by a criminal populism, the cliquet effect having been documented in the history of criminal law. I do not teach you about everything that the social sciences teach us, but this justifies our opposition to this article and our wish to remain in the current state of law. On the other hand, and I turn to technical details, the confusion of sentences will no longer really be possible: this is also a problem. For all these reasons, we oppose Article 5.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u13	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u14	We have already had this debate in committee, so the unfavorable opinion that I will make will hardly surprise you, Mr Bernalicis. It seems to us logical to depart from the principle of the confusion of penalties when it is tantamount to inciting the commission of a poorly punished offence: this is the case with escape and rebellion, it will be the case with the refusal to comply. The driver, even if at fault, must be aware that he will not benefit from pressing the fungus if he is asked for a check. I recall this amazing figure: in France there is a refusal to comply every 17 minutes. Every 17 minutes, therefore, a driver refuses to comply with the common law and chooses not only to put himself in danger, to endanger the other motorists, but also the passengers whom he may be required to carry. It is a calamity that we must put an end to.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u15	The Minister has the floor to give the Government's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u16	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u17	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u18	I had the hope that, between the examination in committee and the sitting, arguments would be presented as to the effectiveness of this measure in resolving a problem, the refusal to comply, of which I repeat that it is real. No one, the rapporteur or the minister, whether in committee or in committee, is able to tell us whether this mechanism will be effective, whether it will result in a reduction in the number of refusals to comply, let us say, by 10 or 15%. Are there any studies of previous measures that would show that an increase in the quantum of punishment has led to a decrease in the number of offences committed? Is there any argument to reassure us and convince us to vote on this mechanism in order to reduce the number of refusals to comply? Sometimes the refusal to comply causes drama: endangering, hitting or killing police officers is the most problematic situation. Sometimes he is committed by a great boss of the Parisian police who, having burned a red light, does not want to see his colleagues and commits an offence of escape. It may be recalled that there is a refusal to comply every 17 minutes, but let us show some discernment: this would grow in the context of the parliamentary debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u19	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u20	Mr Bernalicis, you've been talking about a police prefecture officer twice. You could at least specify that an administrative investigation is under way. Before condemning, perhaps you could take a little time to say that the presumption of innocence applies to everyone, on the understanding that everyone must be blameless, starting with the executives of the prefectures, especially those of the police prefecture. So you could talk about the administrative investigation – having been an agent of the Ministry of the Interior, you know that they are not open for nothing – but also about the presumption of innocence: this may prevent you from doing what you have been doing for four years, an ad hominem indexing of officials who are not there to answer you, which is not a great act of courage. I hear your arguments, which, since I took office as Minister of the Interior, a little over a year ago – but I have also listened with interest to you in previous years – are the same. Basically, your position is that, since no one commits a crime under the Criminal Code by hand, the Penal Code and penalties are useless. Listening to you, the more the quantum of punishment is increased, the less problems are solved: in this regard, there would be no need for a penal code or a quantum of punishment; then there would probably be no more problems or, at the very least, no more. This reductio ad absurdum, as we can see, obviously does not serve the cause you want to defend and cannot be an alternative proposal. Today, when you drive without a driver's license, you run a year's imprisonment. And the penalty is exactly the same when you drive with – or without – a permit and you refuse to comply with a police officer, a police officer or a customs officer who asks you to stop: it may be because you are carrying drugs, because you do not have a permit, because your car is stolen, because you have just committed a larceny or simply because you want to "fuck" a cop – there are a hundred and fifty ways to say "fuck" to society: I want to remain polite in Parliament. The person who drives without a permit – by respecting the road code, without endangering himself, but by committing an offence, it is understood – faces a year's imprisonment, exactly like the one who uses his vehicle as a weapon per destination, as the rapporteur has forcefully reminded him. Every year, police officers and gendarmes die because people do not stop at their request; Every year, French and French people die because people drive no matter how – as you know, it affects all families in France. How can one understand that the same penalty applies? It's incomprehensible. It is therefore a matter of doubling the quantum of sentence and, once again, of subjecting it to the judge's discretion. That is also what the guard of the seals specified, which must be mentioned completely: there is no floor of conviction. First, do not attack ad hominem officials. You're all in a good position here to know the importance of the presumption of innocence. In the interest of public debate, we could perhaps begin examining the part of the text that concerns me by referring to the principles it contains rather than attacking people: it would change us. Secondly, on the substance, you practice the reasoning of absurdity: basically, the penalties set out in their code would be useless if some will continue to commit crimes or offences. I therefore think I have shown why your deletion amendment must be rejected. What else do you propose, except to refuse to penalise the refusal to comply with the wheel?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u21	Mrs Blandine Brocard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u22	The Home Secretary said everything. Mr Bernalicis, it's great, we're going back to the sitting as we left it. For you everything is perfect, everything is fine. That you doubt the effectiveness of the measure, be it, but how can you discuss when you speak immediately of "penal populism"? Once again, let's go back to the field. Our security forces say so, and it has been recalled at least twice: there is a refusal to comply every 17 minutes. This endangers not only our law enforcement agencies, but also our fellow citizens. When you have nothing to blame, you comply and stop, quite simply. We must therefore act, and I am convinced that this article allows it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u23	Mrs Lamia El Aaraje has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u24	I'm a little upset. I share your reflection and your objective: there is a refusal to comply every seventeen minutes, that is, and, as we discussed with the seal keeper, we are living in a context of heightened violence against law enforcement. More generally, in our constituencies, we all have examples of violence committed against a person with public authority – we have mentioned the situation of firefighters and local elected officials, in particular: the list is long. However, in my view, the real issue is the effectiveness of sentencing deterrence. I have no problem with the fact that there is a worsening of the sentence when representatives of the State authority are involved – and I will not return to the list of these representatives. On the other hand, I wonder about the really dissuasive scope of such a measure, doubting that it is effective. By magnifying the trait, it seems to me that it amounts to stopping the hemorrhage, but without suture. Why are we facing an exacerbation of violence? The measure you are proposing does not address this fundamental problem. The question of restoring the link of trust between citizens, between citizens and law enforcement and, more broadly, between citizens and authority is a matter of concern to us. That is why I referred yesterday to the strengthening of the social bond and the social republic that I want to defend, which is not entirely the case here. If I am not in favour of the deletion of the article, I therefore plead that, collectively, we should move on to further reflection.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u25	Mr. Jean Terlier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u26	I must admit that what my socialist colleague has just said is a little disturbing to me. She doubted the effectiveness of a strengthening of sanctions, but spoke of a measure that had not yet been put in place. It's a pre-trial!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u27	No, it's asking a question!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u28	Then you establish a link between strengthening the links between our fellow citizens and the law enforcement agencies on the one hand, and refusing to comply on the other. But do you know what a refusal to comply is? To hear you, if people do not obey when the police or gendarmes ask them to stop, it is because the trust between our fellow citizens and the police would be broken: we must wake up!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u29	No, we don't know: there's an administrative investigation!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u30	We are talking about a very serious crime facing the police and the gendarmerie, and we must therefore punish it very harshly. The rapprochement you're making seems perfectly unreasonable to me.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u31	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u32	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u33	Let's not go astray, for those who listen to us. Today, gendarmes, police or customs officers are confronted, every 17 minutes, with a vehicle driver who refuses to stop when they ask him to. It is a dangerous phenomenon, which kills not only the police but all our fellow citizens. It is therefore absolutely necessary to curb the inflation of this type of behaviour. Mr. Terlier is right, there is no question here of the link between the police and the population, but of common sense: we stop when the police, the gendarmerie or the customs ask to stop; If not, we do what is called a refusal to comply. Either it is simple and is not accompanied, a priori, by an attempt at homicide; either he's going to hurt law enforcement, or even the dead – this happens every year. I became Minister of the Interior the day after the death of Constable Mélanie Lemée, who, at the age of 26, had his leg torn off and died on a road in the Lot-et-Garonne because a driver refused to stop. For this refusal to comply, this person would face the same conviction as someone driving without a licence. [[Mr. Ugo Bernalicis protested]] You are wondering, Mrs El Aaraje, what our text might change. It seems to me, however, that you were aware of the provisions that we are proposing. The legislator, I believe, is concerned with organising the penal code so that the penalties incurred are proportionate. Today, however, someone who drives under the influence of narcotics or alcohol, without any other violation of the road code, risks two years in prison; who commits a refusal to comply, whether or not he has consumed drugs or alcohol, risks only one year in prison. What's the most serious? Is it to drive under the influence of drugs or alcohol, but respecting the road code and stopping when the gendarmes ask for it or is it, even if they have not consumed anything, to run into the gendarmes with their car? This should prompt you to think. Secondly, in order to avoid legislative inflation, we must make sure that things are organised differently, I regret that you did not see that this Article 5 contained other measures that could prove very useful. Thus, at present, the driver's licence of an infringing person is not withdrawn immediately. Is that logical? The immediate withdrawal of the permit and the immobilization of the vehicle are therefore part of the administrative measures that we propose. Stop invoking legislative inflation or the link between police and the population.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u34	Yes, I do!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u35	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] The fact is simply that this Article 5 is demanded by all the policemen, all the gendarmes, all the customs officers, but also, Mr Bernalicis, by a very large majority of local elected officials. It's common sense: a car has to stop if a policeman or a gendarmerie asks. Because a car can kill, and it kills every day – I apologize for the truth of La Palice, but it is at this price that we can be heard in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u36	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor in support of Amendments Nos 179 and 3, which can be presented together.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u37	Contrary to the previous amendment, I propose to increase the fine for a person who fails to comply with a warning to stop, in order to make it more dissuasive. In committee, Mr rapporteur, you told me that my amendment posed a dilemma to you, because you shared part of my view and therefore considered that this amendment could be reworked for the public sitting. I think we agree with you and I that the sentence of two years' imprisonment is frequently associated in the Penal Code with a fine of 30000 euros and not 15000 euros; However, this last case exists, you said, especially in the case of family abandonment. Certainly, but family abandonment does not endanger law enforcement, and endangering our police officers, gendarmes or rural guards is, I believe, a crime of a greater degree than family abandonment, even if it is a problem that I do not minimize. It follows that the repression should be greater, hence my proposal to increase the fine from 15000 to 30000 euros, barely of the same prison.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u38	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u39	Mrs Ménard, I promised in committee that I would give you the fruit of my reflection on the issues raised in committee. I thus confirm that the criminal code makes the penalty of two years' imprisonment a fine of 30000 euros, with a few exceptions. However, my remarks are accompanied by a reservation, because, although we are talking about a criminal offence here, this criminal offence falls within the scope of the Road Traffic Code, which adopts penalties for fines unrelated to the proportionality rule that prevails in the Criminal Code. Thus, driving under the influence of alcohol or narcotics is punishable by two years' imprisonment and only 4,500 euros fine; when alcohol and narcotics are present together, it is three years' imprisonment and 9000 euros fine; in the case of driving with an invalid licence, it is two years and 4,500 euros fine. We may wonder what might appear to be an amazing permissiveness of the legislator with regard to this particular form of delinquency, but the whole code of the road is so, and we will not recast it at the turn of this amendment. I would add that 15,000 euros already constitute a fine in the high range. I will therefore unfortunately not allow your reflection: request for withdrawal and, failing that, unfavorable opinion. With regard to Amendment No 3, the criminalization of refusal to comply with aggravated rules only concerns drivers who have put the police and gendarmes at risk but who have ultimately not caused any damage. A driver who, for example, would use his vehicle to run towards a law enforcement officer or touch him with an injury would be prosecuted for aggravated violence with a weapon. This is an offence that we have specifically raised in clause 4 of the bill, and I therefore propose that we maintain a sense and consistency in the hierarchy of penalties, because it seems to me that we cannot punish the one who deliberately strikes an agent with a weapon and the one who tries to escape control in the same way. We must punish disobedience, but less harsh than hostility. These are the reasons why I again express an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u40	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u41	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u42	On Article 5, I am seized by The Republic on the move of a request for a public ballot. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u43	Thank you, rapporteur, for the clarifications that the minister did not bring. In particular, you have distinguished between the refusal to obey simple, and the violent and hostile act of deliberately attacking the police or gendarmes. In the latter case, it is no longer the refusal to comply that will be prosecuted, but probably the attempt to commit homicide. It is therefore necessary to put everything back in its place, rigorously, in order to make it clear in this area where the criminal code and the road code meet. It is the opposite of what underlies criminal populism, to use the terminology of the social sciences – it is not I who invented this expression – which consists of increasing the scale of penalties with a view to a political communication aimed at reassuring a part of the electorate to which we show that we intend to strengthen the penalization, while knowing that this will have no effect on the causes of the offences and therefore on their decrease, yet that is the stated aim. The minister claims I want to delete the penal code, but that's not what I said! In defending my amendment of abolition I did not refuse to penalise the refusal to comply, but wanted to remain in the current state of law, precisely in order to combat the cliquet effect of criminal populism: the succession of laws that it dictates means that one begins by tightening the sentence of imprisonment without a permit from one year to two years, and then, when a new law arrives, one realizes that the refusal to comply is less severely punished and that, therefore, it is necessary, again, to increase the penalty of imprisonment from one to two years, and so on. At the end of the day, there is an overall increase in the scale of sentences, and judges, who, even if they are sovereign, are not deaf to the debates that go through society, will impose heavier penalties – which is the aim sought. Thus, the average length of incarceration rises in the country and, with it, prison overcrowding, without reducing the rate of recidivism, as it is shown that incarceration promotes recidivism. It therefore seems to me that having a comprehensive, political view of these problems would be more interesting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u44	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u45	Mr rapporteur, you are telling me that the road code is not the penal code. I understand, but it is insulting them to our law enforcement agencies to compare the lack of a driver's licence and the endangerment of our police officers. The refusal to comply, even if it is not accompanied by a desire to assault the police officer or gendarmerie, may result in their endangerment. The rapporteur and the minister recalled: there is a refusal to comply every 17 minutes! On the other hand, I will not respond to Mr Bernalicis' digressions on this point. In any case, by increasing the amount of fines, a very strong signal would be sent to the law enforcement agencies, to whom we would show our full support – which they need given the ridiculous number of refusals to comply. On the contrary, minimizing the financial penalty would have the opposite effect, while this text gives us the opportunity to strengthen it. Our forces of law and order, which protect us and who we must protect them, would be very sensitive.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u46	I put Rule 5 to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u47	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 44 Number of votes cast 44 Absolute majority 23 For adoption 42 Against 2
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u48	Mr Christophe Naegelen has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u49	Article 6 aims to transform the civilian reserve of the National Police into an operational reserve. It aims above all to show the full value of a reserve, both in the gendarmerie and in the police. The gendarmerie reserve has some 35,000 reservists; That of the police, about ten times less. But we must increase the strength of the national police – and I welcome the action taken to that end, Minister. The reserve helps the active gendarmes and police officers and strengthens their presence on the ground when, unfortunately, they are not in sufficient numbers during demonstrations or other events. To provide this assistance, reservists must be able to retain their qualifications. I am very pleased that this section is resuming a bill that I had tabled before turning it into an amendment to the bill for comprehensive security, adopted as a joint committee but unfortunately censored by the Constitutional Council. The measure in question is that former judicial police officers and officers retain this status after joining the reserve once they have retired. I am delighted that she will be very helpful to active police officers and gendarmes. There are still gaps in the system; I will defend several amendments to the article to fill them. Nevertheless, I would like to welcome the improvements made in the text on this subject and to commend the efforts made by the Government and the majority to achieve this.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u50	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u51	[["Ah! » on a few benches of the LaREM group]] We will not oppose Article 6, which creates the operational reserve of the National Police. Do not be surprised, ladies and gentlemen: for those of you who have sat in committee, it is not a scoop. This measure is included in "L'avenir en commun", the programme of La France insoubted, and we proposed it in the form of a nine-month compulsory citizen service, with a military component, a civilian component – in particular in the security services, the police and the gendarmerie at customs – as well as an associative component, in particular in the field of combating climate change. In other words, it's good news. Unfortunately, when we read the impact study, we find that we are far from what the President of the Republic said during the Beauvau de la sécurité – he announced an operational reserve of tens of thousands of members, but the reality is more modest: two to three thousand reservists will be recruited each year for two years – and, above all, we are told that the objective is the Olympic Games, because we will have to mobilize people. What a shame! This should not be the meaning or objective of the operational reserve. I prefer your argument about the rapprochement between the police and the population. This article lacks guarantees that the reservation will complement the action of the police, but will not replace it. It is also necessary to provide all the necessary guarantees for initial and continuing training, since it is not possible to send reservists to the ground, a fortiori if they are supervised by officials who do not necessarily see this additional workload with a good eye. In short, there are still many steps to be taken. Many elements of the text refer to implementing decrees, which is hardly reassuring because nothing is told of this, not even in the announcements of the President of the Republic; I hope that the Government, which was not present in committee on this subject, will further explain to us the practical functioning of the operational reserve.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u52	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u53	Of course, we have no opposition a priori to this article, which aims to transform the civilian reserve of the national police into an operational reserve. However, it is outside the scope of police activity, strictly regulated by law and regulation – it is a guarantee of security for all citizens. We therefore wish to obtain more guarantees regarding the type of recruitment, the tasks entrusted to reservists and their training. As a conservatory, we would like to see an open reflection on the authorization to carry weapons that can be granted to reservists. On the other hand, we hope that at least the skills necessary to carry out their mission will be explained, and that they will receive strong training.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u54	Mrs Nicole Dubré-Chirat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u55	Article 6 aims to transform the civilian reserve of the National Police into an operational reserve, like the reserves of the Gendarmerie and the armies. This transformation will clarify the legal framework of the police civilian reserve and make it more effective through several measures: a new designation of the tasks that can be entrusted to the reservists, since the civil reserve will now be called an operational reserve; the rewriting of the missions of this reserve, which will consist of providing temporary reinforcement to the missions of internal security, as well as to the missions of solidarity in France and abroad, with the exception of missions of maintenance and restoration of public order. The objective is therefore to strengthen the operational capacity of the police services by opening up the possibility of entrusting specially trained reservists with extensive prerogatives under the responsibility of national police officers. Other planned measures: the reduction of the age limit from 65 to 67 years should allow experts to keep in exercise and increase the period of exercise from one to five years; the possibility for reservists from civil society to carry a weapon after training, when they participate in missions that expose them to a risk of aggression. An amendment to the law on comprehensive security, adopted in the Senate, extends the mandatory period of initial training for deputy police officers to future reservists. In addition, a career path of reservists and ranks will be introduced, as is the case in the national gendarmerie. Finally, in order to increase the operational capacity of the police and meet the needs of some large urban areas, it is proposed that reservists who are retired police officers retain the qualification they hold as judicial police officers when they are active. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] This transformation will lead to the recruitment of 70 per cent of the operational reserve into civil society. Its objective is not to replace staff but to provide support for specific interventions. It is intended to strengthen the link between the population and the police, to foster the sense of belonging of the citizen reservists to the institution and to increase the operational capacity of the national police.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u56	I have before me two amendments, Nos 145 and 316, which tend to delete the article. Mr Stéphane Peu, in support of Amendment No. 145, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u57	As we said in the general discussion, this text raises many reservations and even hostility in our group, but we are in favour of certain articles – article 5, for example, on which I have not spoken and which aims to strengthen sanctions in case of refusal to comply. On the other hand, we are calling for the deletion of Article 6 because we are very dubious about the choice of transforming the civilian reserve of the police into an operational reserve. Above all, we see it as a hijacking of the shortage of personnel, which, despite the efforts made in recent years and months, remains staggering, as we unfortunately see every day in our territories. On the other hand, we are concerned about at least three points in this article: the authorisation of the carrying of weapons granted to all reservists, including pensioners and persons from civil society; the extension of the duties of judicial police officers, at the risk of further deterioration of the procedures and the work of the police; Finally, the reduction of the age limit from 65 to 67 years, which we believe is not compatible with the transition from a civil reserve to an operational reserve. In short, this article offers, in our view, above all the means to compensate for a shortage of resources, manpower and training. We prefer the laws and measures that consist of strengthening this great and beautiful public service, the national police.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u58	I call Mrs Lamia El Aaraje to support Amendment No. 316.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u59	We fully share the concerns that have just been expressed, as well as the fact that there is a staffing problem and a problem of means – we will probably come back to that when we look at the Finance Bill (FPL). In addition, there are three fears behind this deletion amendment. First of all, we fear the creation of a two-speed police force, as we said in committee – I listened carefully to your intervention, Mr.Minister, before the Law Commission, but I am not convinced by your arguments. How will this operational reserve be deployed throughout the country, and how will disparities be avoided? Secondly, what certainties do we have about the numbers? Will this operational reserve not compensate for the staffing problems in the territories, especially in view of the ambitious goals you have? Finally, as already mentioned, what training will be given to the authorization to carry weapons? We are concerned about the lack of initial training for officers who have been out of office for less than three years. Above all, how will we guarantee that the reservists, who may have to intervene with our fellow citizens, are equipped with the necessary tools? One does not by chance become an officer of the public service of the police, and it is not enough to have this vocation to carry out his duties properly. It is intended to distil recruitment announcements from the perspective of the finance bill. Here again, can you provide us with guarantees on staffing, an issue that we are concerned about?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u60	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u61	These amendments are intended to delete Article 6, which provides for the conversion of the civilian reserve of the National Police into an operational reserve. This is not just a terminological change, but a necessary reform in several respects. The civil reserve was established in 2003 and opened to all voluntary citizens in 2011. I would like to recall that it is intended to provide support to the internal security forces and to carry out solidarity missions in France and abroad, with the exception of law enforcement missions. Nearly 20 years after its creation, it is clear that the civil reserve has a rather mixed record: its membership is 6,500, four times less than that of the gendarmerie reserve, and only 20 per cent of the reservists are volunteers from civil society, compared with 70 per cent in the gendarmerie. The objective of section 6 is therefore to revitalize the civilian reserve by improving its attractiveness, which will increase and diversify its recruitment, in line with the Beauvau's conclusions on security. To this end, several measures are planned: the introduction of compulsory initial training for reservists from civil society, as Mrs. Dubré-Chirat pointed out, the authorization given to reservists who are retired from the police to retain their status as judicial police officer (OPJ), and the possibility for reservists, under strictly supervised conditions, to carry a weapon when participating in certain missions. The text also provides for various provisions to facilitate the articulation between the reservists' professional or academic obligations and their commitment, so that they may remain in their territory. Under no circumstances is the operational reserve designed to replace the active services of the national police; This is a useful complement, which can only be welcomed by citizens working alongside police officers, and which needs to be strengthened. This will strengthen the link between the police and the population, in line with the objective of the text. Therefore, the opinion is unfavourable on these deletion amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u62	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u63	I will take this opportunity to respond to the speakers who have spoken on fine Article 6, which creates the operational reserve. We have already discussed the subject in part: everyone remembers that the operational reserve was included in the bill tabled by Jean-Michel Fauvergue and Alice Thourot. The Constitutional Council considered that, while the article establishing the operational reserve of the National Police met a noble objective – it did not say so, but it did not find that provision contrary to the Constitution – it was at the time a legislative horseman. That is why we are returning to it today, with arguments that I hope will answer your questions. I would like to evacuate the staffing questions very quickly, which, if you will allow me, Mr Little, Mrs El Aaraje, seem to me to obey more political than sincere motives. It is not up to us, who have increased the number of additional 10000 police officers and gendarmes – which no other government had done until now – that we must blame this, especially in view of the very large increase in the number of staff in your respective departments, in particular the Seine-Saint-Denis. It is understood that there is still a need to increase the number of staff; A real effort must be made to that end, which is why the draft finance law presented this morning in the Council of Ministers provides for another 2,000 police officers and gendarmes. I will be very happy to read in the presidential programmes that more police and gendarmes will be needed, but I have not yet heard the candidates talk about it! I am, however, very pleased with this, and this increase must obviously be continued. More police officers, more gendarmes: we obviously share a vision identity that had not appeared to me in previous budget discussions. What do you mean? Let me turn to the second point, training. I have already had the opportunity to say on several occasions that reducing the training time of police officers and gendarmes to eight or nine months was a mistake. It is for this reason that everyone should welcome the increase in the PLF tabled this morning in the Council of Ministers in order to increase training time to 12 months from next year. You were quite right to stress this point, as well as to point out the need to increase continuing training; There is no doubt about that. I turn to the question of the reservation as such, the subject matter of article 6. On this point, let us note – because once it is not customary, if I dare say so – the gendarmerie serves as a model for the national police. As we know, and the elected representatives of the gendarmerie areas know, the gendarmerie's operational reserve has demonstrated, for decades, its ability to establish a link with the population and to ensure the deployment of the necessary personnel. This is the case in the summer, especially when the gendarmes need to go on vacation like everyone else, while a larger presence is sometimes needed. Within an institution, people coming from outside provide useful experience to avoid endogamy, confinement and self-reliance, which are harmful to any organization. Finally, the reserve contributes to acculturation: it allows the subject of security to be exported outside the institution. When you talk to the gendarmes at highway tolls, you will find that bakers, students or executives are engaged in the national gendarmerie, and that they carry a weapon. To do this, of course, they must have received training that sanctions their ability to do so, Mr Bernalicis, under conditions laid down by law and by decree; Failing this, they are not allowed to do so. It would therefore be interesting for the national police operational reserve to follow the same model as the gendarmerie. You are referring to the impact assessment, Mr.Member, but it was tabled before the fine and great speech made by the President of the Republic in Roubaix, which you probably heard – I saw you there! There's a front and one after Beauvau of security, don't you mind! The President has mentioned very high appropriations, which will be included in the budget for 2022: you will see that we are not short of breath for the national police operational reserve. These appropriations decided upon after the tabling of this bill are evidence of increased ambition. I am pleased that they are in line with the proposal we originally made for the reserve. The national gendarmerie is not forgotten because, for the benefit of the same budget, it will see a substantial increase in its staff, the number of additional reservists being increased to 20,000 over the entire quinquennium, including a few thousand from next year. What I want for this operational reserve and for all the reserves, including that of the gendarmerie – I told its leaders – is that it remains versatile and intervenes where it is needed, as it already does, but also that it can welcome those who wish to engage on a particular topic, for the benefit of society. We do not think enough about the commitments of citizens who wish to join the national police or the gendarmerie. Not all of them want to wear a uniform or a weapon, it can even disturb them and you have to know how to hear it, but they want to marry the causes of the police and the gendarmerie, for example the fight against domestic violence. Tomorrow, the operational reserve could enable men or women, at two, three, four or five days a month, to assist police or related social services, listen to individuals filing complaints, and follow up on justice procedures or relocation files. If some people want to give time and act not in favour of all the causes of the national police but of one of them, why would we not allow them to do so? We would risk repelling them by forcing them to take part in roadside checks or night brigade visits. Moreover, they will be able to do just as well, if, for example, their experiences encourage them, engage in the fight against drugs or even for road safety – many of the causes that deserve to be highlighted. The operational reserve we are talking about today is therefore both a general operational reserve, similar to that of the gendarmerie – if you have fears, see the professionalism and efficiency of the gendarmerie – and a citizen engagement in a very beautiful institution, that of the national police. So far, the reservists were mostly National Police retirees – thank you to them! Thanks to their experience, these men and women often participate in the training or accompaniment of young police officers. Above all, they link with the population in what is known as the national police comitology, for example in operational partnership groups (OPGs). Having been mayor of a commune, Mr Bernalicis, I have often seen this. They are few and very deserving, and I welcome their action, but their role is different from that of the gendarmerie reserve in the connection with the population. These people are therefore obviously affected by the transformation of the reserve and, with this text, which must strengthen trust between the police and the population, we are helping to meet their expectations. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] To sum up, I repeat that we must not be afraid of carrying weapons since it will be subject to the sanction of training; On the other hand, these measures do not withdraw anything from the unprecedented increase in staff and training that we are making independently of the operational reserve. Finally, a great deal of work will have to be done to thematize the reserve – which does not mean that there will be no general reserve. In total, it will be a good public policy that of the police operational reserve. Opinion against the amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u64	Mrs Valérie Bazin-Malgras has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u65	I will bring water to your mill, minister – once is not customary! The operational reserve is also the creation of young jobs. There is, in the department where I am elected, an army regiment with which about 100 young people sign a 40-day employment contract each year. The same possibility could be considered within the police force. I would like to say to the colleagues who are in front of me that we must not oppose this mechanism. At a time when young people are not finding a job, it is both a great tool and a source of recruitment, but it is also, let us say clearly, a way to reconcile them with the police. That is why I would like to support Article 6.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u66	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u67	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u68	I don't know if we will have reached the figure of 10,000 recruits by 2022, but we won't be far from it, around 9,000. I give you this point, minister, even if the conditions for the recruitment and training of these officers are problematic, with an initial training of only eight months. Perhaps we will have the opportunity to go back to the announcements of the President of the Republic, which I call scams: indeed, the training must go back to twelve months, as was the case before, but by integrating the formation of OPJ, which itself lasts five months.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u69	You didn't understand the speech!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u70	That's what the President of the Republic announced! Perhaps you will deny it, but it is your concern, minister. In total, we are being conned for five months and this is a real problem: while our European neighbours are planning initial two-year training and Canadians are planning three-year training to become peacekeepers, we would be interested in raising the level of qualifications and skills, in the interest of the police themselves, because they must be armed in every sense of the word – especially in the management of the conflicts they are facing. There are enough police officers in our country. Recruitment must now be halted and staffing stabilized. France has one of the highest rates of police per capita in Europe; This should be stressed. The real question is, what are we asking them to do? What do we expect from them? Do we want them to continue to devote 30 per cent of their activity to drug offences? Should judicial activity be devoted primarily to the fight against narcotic drugs, and in particular to the suppression of cannabis use? For my part, despite the creation of the reserve, I believe that cannabis should be legalized in order to give police and gendarmes room for manoeuvre. You will not save, Minister, the creation of new police schools for the renewal of the current police force and, above all, for your future reserve. We'll have to train the reservists somewhere! We're not going to do that in Algeco! It is important that we have very concrete and precise elements in this regard.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u71	Mrs Lamia El Aaraje has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u72	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed answer. We do not fully share your point of view and I am not entirely convinced, I do not hide it from you, by the arguments you have put forward. One thing is certain, in any case: the repetition of a certain number of figures and an ambition does not make it a reality but, at worst, an incantation and, at best, a pious wish. Although we analyse the previous budgets and the current budget, we do not find the figure of 10000 that you are making with regard to the increase in the number of staff. We will probably have an opportunity to talk about it again – I see that you do not agree with me! During the previous quinquennium, the police force increased well by 10,000. You can tell me that your government is the first to do this, but that is not the reality, and you know it very well. We will have the opportunity to talk again about this political objective that you are displaying, and that we share. I do not see how shameful it would be to recognize that there are not enough people today and that we share the objective of increasing them. Rather, we should rejoice and, from there, seek solutions. With regard to the Beauvau de la sécurité, I repeat what I said yesterday: you can tell us that this is the greatest step forward, but at this stage we do not see the translation. The conclusions announced feed into a presidential programme, that is, but at this stage they have no legislative translation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u73	It's in the budget, ma'am!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u74	In this case, we will discuss this during the budget review. But the announcements made by the President of the Republic, which you mentioned in reply to my colleague Bernalicis, concern the next quinquennium.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u75	It's in the next budget, you didn't follow! He's on the internet: read it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u76	I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 223.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u77	We do not want reservists to go abroad to help. The issue had been quickly raised in the Law Commission. According to our understanding of the operational reserve, it does not have to intervene abroad. There are many other ways in which a person with special skills can be called upon to intervene abroad. It seems useful to remind us that it is on the national territory, in metropolitan France and overseas, that the operational reserve can deploy and establish a relationship with the population. Its role is not to intervene in an embassy, for example: such a mission is subject to other prerogatives, other modalities of recruitment and assignment. It should therefore not be made clear that the reservation could intervene abroad.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u78	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u79	We have already had this exchange in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure and I will repeat my reply to Mrs Obono at that time. Article L. 411-7 of the Code of Internal Security already provides that members of the police civil reserve may be required to carry out missions outside the national territory. From this point of view, Article 6 does not imply any evolution. In essence, the intervention of these reservists abroad is of an exceptional nature. It corresponds to cases which require special expertise from retired reservists of the active police forces for very specific missions, for example, to internal security attachés in consulates or embassies. It therefore concerns very limited staff with specific skills. Therefore, in so far as section 6 does not change what is already provided for in the law, the opinion of the commission will be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u80	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u81	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u82	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u83	The argument that this possibility is already provided for by law is not such as to win my conviction. In addition, to meet your needs, there are alternatives to the operational reserve. It should not be distorted by creating confusion with the current civil reserve, consisting mainly of pensioners. It is expected to be made up of voluntary citizens, and I hope that they will make up the majority of its staff, as is the case with the Gendarmerie's operational reserve. The current wording of article 6 implies that any member of the operational reserve may be projected abroad. No specific criteria, such as being a former active police officer, are indicated. There's no guarantee. But I would not like tomorrow, if the Belgian government asks us for reinforcements in the event of demonstrations, we send reservists. It wouldn't make sense, it would be upuesque!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u84	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 4.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u85	The purpose of this clarification amendment is to ensure that the operational reserve of the National Police will be in addition to the active staff. If the operational reserve can be of considerable assistance, its existence should not limit the increase in active police officers in one way or another. It's better to say it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u86	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u87	This amendment seems superfetal to me. Reservists are obviously not meant to replace the active force of the National Police, whose strength has increased thanks to the recruitment of 10,000 civil servants since 2017, as the minister has just pointed out. Paragraph 5 of the article already specifies that the operational reserve is intended for "temporary reinforcement missions of the internal security forces". There is no ambiguity on this point. For these reasons, request for withdrawal and, failing that, unfavorable notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u88	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u89	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u90	I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 346.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u91	It provides for initial training for all future members of the operational reserve, with the text limiting this training to voluntary citizens. Of course, it seems essential that those who have never worked in the Ministry of the Interior should be able to follow one, but, as I have already said in committee, I believe that pensioners of the National Police should also be involved, especially since they can only incorporate the reservation several years after they retire. For them, training would not have to be very long – two or three weeks would be enough – but it remains necessary. Positioning is not the same depending on whether you are an active officer in a brigade or in a unit or a member of the operational reserve, which has other missions, other prerogatives, other operating modalities. Whenever a person enters the operational reserve, work must be done on this new positioning, including to former active police officers. That would be an additional guarantee.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u92	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u93	Your amendment aims to extend initial training to all reservists, regardless of their profile and career path. As much as initial training seems to me welcome and even indispensable with regard to reservists from civil society or former deputy police officers who have left the police for more than three years, it seems to me superfluous for retired national police officers or former deputy police officers who have recently left their posts. These volunteers have experience, knowledge and skills acquired through their experience in the police force that reservists from civil society do not possess. Extending the obligation of initial training to all reservists without distinction, without taking into account their previous profile and experience, does not seem to me to be useful or desirable. Consequently, the opinion was unfavourable, as in committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u94	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u95	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u96	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u97	I adjure you to hear me, especially since my intention is in no way critical. We do not say that everyone must have the same initial training, but that everyone must receive one. That's why we plan a decree: you could consider four months with such or such criteria for people coming from outside and only one week for police retirees to explain the new positioning. I'm not making up anything, anyway. When a police officer changes his/her unit or service, he/she receives training from one to three weeks to learn about new assignments related to his/her position. Obviously, if it were dispensed at the time of taking up office it would be great, but it is often given with six months of lag – this is the life of the ministry of the interior and it is not near to change, unfortunately. The provision of such initial training would be of good management. This would avoid distorting the operational reserve; Otherwise, retired police officers may behave as if they were active police officers while, objectively, they will no longer be.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u98	Mrs Albane Gaillot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u99	I agree with this amendment. You have mentioned, Mr Minister, the possibility that the members of the reserve may be assigned to specific missions, for example the fight against domestic violence, a great cause of the quinquennium that is mobilising us all. We know that there is a training plan on this issue for police officers and gendarmes deployed throughout the country. Among the members of the citizens' reserve, some people will not have received any specialized training while they will have to deal with events of particular gravity. However, it is very important that those responsible for accompanying victims of domestic violence and filing complaints, which you have mentioned, Minister, receive specific initial training – and that is certainly true for other subjects. Such training is even a necessary prerequisite before taking up office.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u100	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u101	It is understood that training is necessary. But a question arises: is it the role of the legislator to organize it? The difference seems clear to me between the law and the regulation, and it is therefore not a question here of going into the details of this training. Let us beware of setting out too general principles, because the very content of training cannot be general: what we will be reporting to Parliament is its declination in detail. I will take a very concrete example, Madam Member. It is obvious that for a person with little knowledge of domestic violence but who wants to devote himself to this cause within the framework of the operational reserve, training is essential, and I make a commitment to you that it will be given. But let's imagine that specialists in the matter – lawyers, presidents of associations, volunteers or even gendarmes since, if policemen can be part of the National Gendarmerie Reserve, reciprocal is also possible – want to integrate the operational reserve, it would seem to me that the programme manager is free to decide the content of their training. Why do you take a family law course with a lawyer who specializes in family law? Rather, it would be a good idea to place him a few days a week with a surveyor or social worker. Perhaps it will take them a few hours of training to present the functioning of the National Police, but we will not teach them their profession by explaining how to take care of a lady who would file a complaint. I hear the concern expressed here by the legislator, but I hope to reassure you that things are more complex. The idea is to go into detail, and it does not seem to me, in this respect, that it is the law to define the entire functioning of the Ministry of the Interior.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u102	That's the point: our amendment refers to a decree!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u103	What is very surprising, honourable Member, is that such training is already planned within the National Gendarmerie Reserve. You have, I imagine, auditioned his representatives! It is clear that a person does not join the operational reserve without training when he or she is far removed from the operation of the weapon he or she is about to use. I know you have serious doubts about our ability to govern the affairs of the country, but in this case I think they are going a little too far. You know these questions well: you say you are in favour of the reserve, but it seems to me that you have many opportunities to oppose it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u104	I call Mr Buon Tan to support Amendment No. 383.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u105	As we prepare to transform the civilian reserve of the National Police into an operational reserve, thereby increasing its strength and expanding its missions, I believe it is essential to strengthen also the training that these future reservists will receive in the fight against discrimination. We all know the scourge of racism, anti-Semitism and hatred and rejection of each other in societies. Such behaviour creates a nauseating climate, divides our compatriots and deeply reaches the point of being able to live together. The police and judicial response to these acts is decisive: it enables us to better understand these phenomena, to treat them in depth and to discourage the perpetrators from taking action; it brings dignity and justice to the victims. However, this response can only be effective if the public officials responsible for it are sufficiently aware of these problems and, above all, know what appropriate solution can be found. Considerable efforts have already been made, notably through the establishment of networks of focal points dedicated to these issues within the police, gendarmerie and judiciary. I will also welcome the circular of 4 April 2019 on combating discrimination, hate speech and hate behaviour, which has helped to improve the judicial treatment of these cases. At a time when the police operational reserve is expected to grow, it is important that reservists also be adequately trained on these issues. To this end, the amendment states that their training will include "an awareness of the issues related to the prevention and combating of discrimination in the context of the procedural acts that reservists will have to carry out and the situations that they will encounter in the performance of their duties". As a member of the operational reserve of the gendarmerie, I confirm that it is an excellent tool and a great plus for the gendarmerie. I think the same will apply to the police operational reserve.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u106	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u107	We all share here the objective of your amendment, Mr Tan. The fight against discrimination is, of course, a fight that we must fight on a daily basis. I know that the National Police subscribes to this commitment, which lies at the heart of our republican values. However, I do not think it appropriate to detail specific content in the law and to go down to the training module. Rather, it is a matter of regulatory authority. Even though we all have at heart the principles that guide your amendment, it seems to me more reasonable for you to withdraw it; Otherwise, my opinion will be unfavorable. You descend too thinly into the particle size of the training provided to members of the operational reserve.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u108	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u109	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u110	Mr Buon Tan has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u111	I withdraw my amendment if the rapporteur undertakes to take this dimension into account.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u112	I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 344.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u113	By this amendment, we intend to set the time limit that a reservist can devote to the operational reserve at 30 days a year. To tell you everything, I did not look for noon at 14:00: I simply looked at how the gendarmerie reserve works. It seems more useful to me than to indicate twenty-four hours a week, a somewhat heavy constraint which implies that the reservist segment his commitment in weeks. The system that I propose offers more flexibility – a reservist may be required ten days in a row if necessary – and provides the guarantee that the reserve will be in addition to, and not a substitute for, those of the police. In this way, we will remain in the spirit of what the police operational reserve should serve. I would like to clarify the previous amendment, which laid down the principle of initial training for all reservists and referred the concrete arrangements to a decree. That's too bad, Minister! He invited you to define these conditions of application within your department and to specify, based on his profile, that such a person would, for example, need four days of initial training on such and such elements before they would enter the operational reserve. I wasn't saying anything more. You don't want to hear it, it's unfortunate and unfortunate. [[Mr Sylvain Maillard exclaimed]] I am sufficiently familiar with the Ministry of the Interior and the history of the Directorates of Training – removed and added to the Directorate of Resources and Skills of the National Police (DRCPN), then recreated and modified again – to emphasize the issue of the initial and continuing training of the Ministry. Moreover, if it were not a subject, the President of the Republic – or presidential monarch, it is as you wish – would not have insisted in the speech he delivered at the end of the Beauvau de la sécurité on the need to increase the continuing training within the Ministry of the Interior by 50%. Yes, it is a real subject, to which we must pay attention.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u114	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u115	The maximum period of service in the operational reserve of the National Gendarmerie is 60 days per year and may in some cases be increased to 200 days. Outside the emergency situation, in the current civil reserve of the National Police, the ceiling is set at 90 days per year for reservists from civil society and 150 days for retired reservists from the National Police and former deputy police officers. The bill does not, therefore, make any changes on this point and it does not seem useful to reduce the maximum period of engagement within the police reserve as proposed by your amendment. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u116	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u117	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u118	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u119	You are right, Mr rapporteur, that the duration of appointment within the operational reserve of the national gendarmerie is sixty days in the texts, but in fact it is thirty days. I invite you to consult the website gendarmerie.interieur.gouv.fr, which explains that the commitment to the reserve is 30 days maximum per year. The legislation on the operational reserve of the gendarmerie should be amended accordingly. Perhaps we could foresee exceptional situations but, once again, there is a specific nature of the gendarmerie because of its militarity. This makes a difference with the national police and one cannot respect a strict parallelism of forms. At present, I repeat, a reservist, a voluntary citizen of the gendarmerie, is not mobilised for more than 30 days a year.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u120	The rapporteur, Mr Jean-Michel Mis, has the floor to support Amendment No. 361 as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u121	The purpose of this amendment is to extend the age limit for reservist specialists from 67 to 72 years, in order to ensure consistency with the current age limit for specialists in the operational reserve of the national gendarmerie, as provided for in Article L. 4221-2 of the Defence Code. In addition to a welcome alignment of the age limits applicable within the two reserves for specialist reservists only, this amendment also aims to broaden the pool of candidates for the operational reserve among retired volunteers from civil society. At the end of their professional careers, they may wish to integrate the operational reserve in order to carry out expertise tasks within their area of competence, thereby making their experience and skills useful to the national police.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u122	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 331 and 372. I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 331.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u123	It is an amendment to delete paragraph 21 and, at the same time, an amendment to appeal. We have not had enough time to get it written precisely. Our first intention is that the Group of the European People's Party does not wish that the members of the operational reserve, in particular the voluntary citizens who will commit themselves to it and carry out, I hope, community policing missions tomorrow, have a firearm. The amendment should be redrafted since, as it stands, it is intended to prohibit the use of weapons in general, which is not exactly the same debate. This is an appeal amendment because we are aspired to re-create a community police tomorrow, whose essential component would not be equipped with a firearm. This does not mean that she would not benefit from the support of her colleagues or that she would not have other types of defence weapons. But it would not have a firearm, because we believe that enough weapons are circulating in France, causing problems and suicides within the police; Remember that the first victims of police firearms are the police themselves. There is no need to continue to distribute them, especially to reservists. I know that this is already being done for those in the operational reserve of the gendarmerie, and I would also like, in parallel with forms concerning the tasks of proximity, to have the authorization of the reservists of the national gendarmerie to hold a firearm abolished, knowing that a reservist never patrolled alone. In all sense, he must be accompanied by incumbent officials who hold a firearm. This is our understanding of the operational reserve.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u124	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u125	Your amendment aims to remove the extension of the authorisation of the carrying of weapons in the context of the missions of the operational reserve. Today, the carrying of weapons within the police reserve is allowed only for retired reservists and former deputy police officers, while it is open, under conditions, to all the reservists of the gendarmerie, which contributes to the enhancement of their missions. According to this example, article 6 makes it possible to carry weapons to all reservists of the National Police, when they participate in missions that expose them to a risk of aggression. Of course, this authorization cannot be issued without conditions. In accordance with the opinion of the Council of State, it is therefore envisaged that a decree will govern the issuance of the authorization in order to define the competent authority in this field, the types of weapons which may be carried and the totality of the training, training and aptitude requirements to which the reservists concerned will be subjected. That is why I express an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u126	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u127	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u128	We are dealing with two identical amendments. Forgive me, Mr. Clement. You have the floor to support Amendment No 372.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u129	My argument joins that of Mr Bernalicis. I have just heard the rapporteur's explanation that a decree in the Council of State will specify the conditions for the authorisation of the carrying of weapons and will make it clearer on the latter, which seems to us to be granted a little blindly. I, for my part, remain concerned about the carrying of weapons, which is not an insignificant act. In the case of a licensed police officer, the question does not arise: the weapon is one of the tools made available to a police professional; It is different, on the other hand, when it comes to people who start, if I dare say so, in the profession. However, the operational reserve will be composed of very different people, who may find themselves facing situations in which they will not be able to control the use of this weapon. It seems dangerous to me for these people, as well as for society as a whole. We therefore propose the deletion of article 6, paragraph 21.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u130	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor in support of Amendments Nos 6 and 5, which can be presented together.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u131	They are intended to amend the first sentence of paragraph 21, which, in its current wording, states: "When participating in missions that expose them to a risk of aggression, reservist police officers may be authorized to carry a weapon. I propose, with Amendment No 6, to amend the beginning of this paragraph by stating that "In the course of their missions, reservist police officers are allowed to carry a weapon. Or, with Amendment No 5, "Unless otherwise duly justified, reservist police officers are allowed to carry a weapon. » Indeed, defining the risk of aggression in a mission is complicated, as long as an active police officer or reservist can be targets at any time and the risk still exists. As far as Amendment No 5 is concerned, we have had the opportunity to say this on several occasions, the police and, more broadly, all those who can be closely or by far assimilated to the forces of law and order, from the reservist to the public highway surveillance officer (ASVP), through the municipal police officer or the gendarmerie, can unfortunately be targeted. It is therefore necessary to give them the opportunity to defend themselves and to allow them to carry a weapon, more generally than is provided for in paragraph 21.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u132	What is the committee's opinion on the two amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u133	Your amendments are looking in reverse – if I may say not – against the previous amendments; They concern the same subjects and concerns, but you give a different answer. You propose, in a way, to reverse the logic followed by paragraph 21 and to provide generally for the carrying of weapons for all reservists, with some exceptions. I do not share this orientation: the opening of the carrying of weapons to all reservists, in terms which the decree will specify, must be conditioned to the exercise of missions which expose them to the risk of aggression. Not all missions that could be carried out within the reserve, including administrative ones, justified such provisions. I therefore express an unfavorable opinion on both amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u134	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u135	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u136	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u137	I hear what you are saying, Mr rapporteur, but again, all those who, by far or near, can be assimilated to law enforcement are a potential target. Unfortunately, recent news has shown that even administrative officers can be targeted. I will not recall the recent terrorist attacks, which have affected administrative officers in the police station compound. That is why I consider it necessary to extend the protection due to the security forces.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u138	I have before me three amendments, Nos 224, 325 and 373, which may be submitted to a joint debate. Amendments Nos 224 and 325 are identical. I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 224.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u139	[[Smile]] The difference from the previous amendment on initial training is that it incorporates in-service training for reservists joining the National Police Operational Reserve. We set the principle and leave it to you, Minister, to manage the department until we take care of it ourselves.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u140	Amendment No 325 by Mrs Lamia El Aaraje is being defended, as well as Amendment No 373 by Mr Michel Castellani. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u141	Unfavorable opinion. The aim of these amendments is partly satisfied by the wording of paragraph 11, which provides for mandatory initial training for all volunteers from civil society, as well as for former deputy police officers who, although they justify at least three years of active service, have left the police for more than three years. This is the result of a work done in committee. On the other hand, as I have already stated, it does not seem necessary to extend mandatory initial training to retired reservists of the active forces of the National Police or to former deputy police officers who have had at least three years of active service and who have left the police for less than three years, as they have, through their experience, the basic knowledge and skills required to serve on the reserve.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u142	On Article 6, I have a request from the La République en marche group for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Amendment No 7 by Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u143	I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 225.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u144	We are opposed to the fact that retired National Police officers, who were judicial police officers when they were on duty, retain this qualification within the operational reserve: this would distort the objective of the operational reserve. Being a judicial police officer is a full-time task, which must be assigned to an official, authorized by the public prosecutor near the Court of Appeal – and no longer at the court level, as a result of recent laws. The operational reserve should not be a substitute for JPOs conducting long-term or even shorter-term investigations; It's not his job, it's not his usefulness.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u145	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u146	You propose to remove the possibility for retired national police officers to retain their status as judicial police officers when exercising in the operational reserve. On the contrary, this possibility seems appropriate, because it is a factor of attractiveness – the gendarmerie already benefits from it. It will encourage newly retired JPOs to join the reserve. This faculty will be strictly supervised: it will be subject to updating the knowledge and skills of the persons concerned, and will be subject to an authorization issued by the Attorney General near the Court of Appeal. In addition, reservist JPOs will only be able to exercise the functions that fall within the scope of the JPO, and to avail themselves of that status, if they are assigned to missions that involve holding it. This is therefore a useful and well-defined measure. So my opinion is unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u147	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u148	In the short term, this measure will address the lack of OPJ: the national police has only 17000, whereas they should be 22000; So there's about 5000 missing. We have taken many steps to increase those numbers. The number of JPOs is increasing, but in the short term, the lack is felt in the functioning of the national police – I'm not hiding it. It is a pity to lose the competence of national police officers who have obtained this difficult qualification under the judicial authority after their retirement – especially since a large part of them retire before 60 years of age. Thanks to the measure we are proposing, we will be able to continue to benefit from their qualifications for one to five years. They will remain under the authority of the prosecutor of the Republic, and only the latter will be able to withdraw their status of OPJ, if he considers that they do not live up to their function – this happens. Note that it is not a question of asking the national police officers who have integrated the operational reserve to obtain the qualification of OPJ, but to continue to benefit from the skills of those who were already OPJ. Finally, the JPOs carry out many missions other than the long-term investigations that you are talking about, Mr. Bernalicis. Some exercise, for example, in the LAC – anti-criminality brigades. There are.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u149	There's not enough!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u150	It may be missing – I think it would be necessary for each crew – but there are some. Others can see suspicious deaths, contribute to searches...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u151	Do some searches!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u152	They can carry out identity checks...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u153	Let's say these acts are under their control!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u154	I am pleased to hear you acknowledge that identity checks are always supervised by an OPJ...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u155	Under the control of an OPJ!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u156	This is a step forward in relation to the debates we had a few months ago! Of course, not all police officers qualify as OPJ. There is no reason to consider that JPOs are confined to long-term investigations into major financial matters or "media" murders. They carry out many other missions that we need, and it is natural for some police officers to qualify as an OPJ – it is a matter of common sense, as one of you pointed out. Our intention is not to recruit only retired JPOs to build up the operational reserve, but not to deprive us of that competence.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u157	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u158	I'm not saying the police don't need OPJ. In fact, you acknowledged that you were missing some, and explained that you were hoping to keep some of them because of this measure, while waiting to train others. What do you mean? That said, your comments only convince me that we must not proceed in this way. When you enter the reserve, you are no longer an active, incumbent employee, and you no longer have to be an OPJ. I helped you to quote the little acts for which we needed OPJ, like the excavations, but I didn't go to the end; Indeed, the texts, as you have written them – and as I have challenged them – provide that these acts are carried out under the control of an OPJ: even if they are supervised by a single OPJ, a large number of reservists can actually carry out searches – private security officers are even allowed there! You will see that I am very close to the texts that are voted on in the House, even if I oppose them! We do not have the same conception of things – I say it quietly. For me, the one who integrates the reserve must no longer hold the qualification of OPJ: it can involve long-term missions, which can not be carried out by reservists present thirty days a year. In addition, the authorization and supervision of the prosecutor is best exercised as they relate to a civil servant who is regularly seen, and not only 30 days a year. While authorization is a punctual act – a paper to sign, after which we no longer see each other again – the control is carried out differently, not both during the searches and during the real investigations conducted by the prosecutor's office; It is then that a notation intervenes. Let us not be reassured by procedures that are certainly necessary, but bureaucratic, which are often far less protective than we would like. I therefore understand your point of view, but I am opposed to you, without acrimony – hence my deletion amendment. Former JPOs can fully join the operational reserve and assist in the investigation, without being JPOs. It is the active officials who hold the status of OPJ, and who are present throughout the year, who are responsible for signing the acts.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u159	Mr Christophe Naegelen has the floor to support Amendments Nos 1 and 2, which can be put together.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u160	As I have already pointed out, this article is of great interest in allowing a police officer or a gendarme with the qualification of OPJ to retain her when he becomes a reservist. My amendments are aimed at extending this possibility to active police officers and gendarmes, who hold the status of OPJ, who would like to join the reserve of the other corps. That is common sense.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u161	What is the committee's opinion on these amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u162	They are in line with the philosophy of Article 6 and provide useful clarification: they will help to expand the pool and further strengthen the operational reserve that we all wish to establish. So my opinion is in favour.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u163	I put to the vote Rule 6, as amended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u164	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 45 Number of votes cast 43 Absolute majority 22 For adoption 40 Against 3
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u165	I have two deletion amendments before me, Nos 228 and 375. Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor to support Amendment No. 228.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u166	We wish to delete article 7, which aims to introduce video surveillance in police custody cells. You had already passed this measure in law for a comprehensive security that preserves freedoms, but it had been censored by the Constitutional Council for good reasons. We believe that it still constitutes a disproportionate violation of the right to privacy, enshrined in many texts. The explanatory memorandum to this bill states that "regular observation of police custody cells significantly reduces the risk of suicide, self-injury, assault or escape". This is an extremely worrying reality. From our point of view – and we are not the only ones to think so – these situations of human distress are not so much the result of a lack of video surveillance, but of particularly degrading conditions of police custody in unhealthy places. It is this last subject that must be given priority. In a recent report on the material conditions of police custody, the Comptroller General of Places of Deprivation of Liberty describes the "unspeakable filth" of cells, "the poorest of administrative premises". She called for a rehabilitation policy, and noted that the authorities had committed themselves to work that had never been carried out. This is one example, among many others, of what it would be necessary to do – not to mention that agents are too few and insufficiently trained to prevent violence, especially those to which they might be subjected. The answer is not, therefore, video surveillance.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u167	Mr Jean-Michel Clément has the floor to support Amendment No. 375.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u168	Article 7 seeks to introduce a system of video surveillance in police custody cells. The purpose of this measure is to avoid, we are told, the risk of escape or threats to persons in police custody or to others. In several areas, the Government has taken into account the decision of the Constitutional Council of 7 May 2021 on the Global Security Act, by reviewing the legislative framework for image capture. However, the introduction of continuous video surveillance in police custody cells continues to constitute a significant breach of the privacy of the persons concerned. Such a mechanism seems disproportionate in view of the reasons given for it: indeed, escape and suicide remain very rare. In addition, this measure would potentially apply to all police custody, without distinction. In view of the inadequacy and disproportion of the measure in relation to the reasons given, we propose the deletion of Article 7.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u169	What is the committee's opinion on these amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u170	My answer may be a little long, but the subject is important – it will allow me to be shorter afterwards. Unsurprisingly, the committee is against these amendments to delete Article 7 because it sets out an indispensable legislative framework for the use of video surveillance in police custody and customs detention facilities. Currently, no specific legislative framework specifies the conditions under which video surveillance is implemented in police custody cells. I consider that this tool meets a real operational need – the police and gendarmerie services confirmed it during the hearings. The aim is to strengthen the surveillance of persons in police custody to prevent the risk of assault, suicide or escape. While the proposed law on comprehensive security of freedoms had attempted to establish rules, all of them had been censored by the Constitutional Council on the grounds that they did not balance security objectives with the right to privacy. Indeed, the initial duration of video surveillance was 48 hours, and could extend to six days only with information from the prosecutor. The scope of the measure was also very broad, since it also covered administrative detention centres – video surveillance up to 90 days. Article 7 has drawn all the consequences of constitutional jurisprudence. Thus, the system is restricted to police custody cells alone, as well as to customs detentions, through an amendment adopted at the initiative of the Government in committee. It applies to individuals where there is substantial reason to believe that they may attempt to escape or pose a threat to others or themselves. In addition, the initial duration of video surveillance is 24 hours; the judicial authority shall be informed of this and may immediately terminate it. The renewal of this measure is subject to the agreement of the judicial authority. The retention period of the data is 48 hours after the lifting of police custody, compared with 30 days in the "Global Security" Act. This duration, adopted in committee at the initiative of Antoine Savignant, seems to me to reach a satisfactory balance, knowing that the duration is seven days when the person held in custody asks for the prolonged retention of the recordings. For all these reasons, this mechanism seems to me to be balanced, operational and respectful of the rights and freedoms of persons held in custody. My opinion is therefore unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u171	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u172	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u173	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u174	[[Minister protested]] Article 7 tries to set a kind of framework for situations that exist since premises already have video surveillance devices without this having been the subject of in-depth discussion. One might therefore think that this is a positive element since there will be at least one framework. However, this does not win the conviction because most of the video surveillance cameras that are in police custody cells are inoperative, as they are degraded. This is what I noticed when I went to visit the police station in Roubaix where the jails have since been the object of work, which is better for everyone and especially for the agents who were confronted with unhealthy jails. These cameras are dysfunctional and eventually create new offences, new offences, new problems that we were not confronted with before. When I hear this verse that the device is protective for the person, I would like to reply that section 7 provides that it is the head of the office responsible for the security of the premises who will decide to place the person in custody under video surveillance and not the person concerned. Moreover, this decision is well taken "in the light of the behaviour" of the individual; It is not even clear whether he is possibly a victim, for example, of violence by police officers. There are already cameras running not inside police custody, but in the corridors of the jails. And that's not what we're talking about either. No, the device is not proportionate. You have indeed taken up what the Council of State and the Constitutional Council have said to try to make it fit into the nails, but the substantive arguments are still no more relevant than those put forward in the discussion of the text on global security. Our position will therefore remain the same, not to mention the cost that this measure will generate. Such funds would be more useful if they were devoted to obtaining decent and at least dignified places of custody.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u175	I have before me two amendments, Nos 395 and 384 which may be submitted to a joint debate. Mrs Albane Gaillot has the floor to support Amendment No. 395.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u176	Indeed, article 41 of the draft law on comprehensive security had been completely censored by the Constitutional Council. With Article 7, you wanted to provide guarantees to the device, safeguards that would limit its scope of action and limit privacy violations. However, some holes in the snowshoe remain. Also, the National Bar Council proposes that the decision to place under video surveillance, decided by the head of the department responsible for the safety of the premises concerned or his representative, be taken by "reasoned decision".
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u177	Mr Jean-Michel Clément has the floor to support Amendment No. 384.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u178	Same argument. The question of motivation is still necessary in law. This would increase clarity and security for those who make the decisions by motivating the decision to place the person in custody under video surveillance. This necessary clarification will ensure the legal comfort of all actors willing to apply these arrangements. The formulation of motivations should be encouraged whenever necessary.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u179	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u180	Video surveillance must necessarily be justified by the existence of the risk of assault, escape or attempted suicide of the person in custody. In addition, the renewal of video surveillance is subject to the authorisation of the competent judicial authority. Therefore, in my view, there is no need for a specific requirement of motivation that would be in addition to the conditions already laid down by law, unless the administrative burden on police officers and gendarmes is increased – but we would rather like to alleviate them. I do not think that such an increase corresponds to the objective of your amendment. That is why I express an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u181	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 181.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u182	It is intended to delete the end of article 7, paragraph 5, which states that the detention under video surveillance of a person in custody shall be decided by the head of the security department responsible for the places concerned "where there are substantial grounds for believing that that person could attempt to escape or pose a threat to himself or herself or to others". The hearings of the representatives of the police unions showed us that a person could appear completely harmless at first, and then prove dangerous without necessarily warning signs. It therefore seems to me that the conditions set out in this subparagraph may prevent law enforcement agencies from implementing video surveillance when it may be necessary. This decision should be subject to their free discretion, without necessarily being subordinated to "serious grounds for believing that this person might attempt to escape or represent a threat". The hearing of representatives of a police union referred to police custody as an indication of the need for video surveillance, without necessarily requiring a particular motive. As I said in committee, two men had been placed in the same cell during police custody: the first was asleep and the second did not give any particular signs of anxiety or excitement. Yet he killed the man who was sleeping without any warning signs being detected. Video surveillance should therefore be automatic in police stations with cameras in police cells.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u183	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u184	It is necessary to maintain the condition that custody depends on the existence of risk of escape, attempted suicide or assault. It is a useful scoping element for the device. In the interests of proportionality, so that the placement under video surveillance is really reserved for the cases which justify it, I express an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u185	Amendment No 148 by Mrs Marie-George Buffet is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u186	I have before me five amendments, Nos 31, 76, 302, 33 and 35, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 76 and 302 are identical. I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 31.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u187	It aims to make possible the use of video surveillance during police custody, as long as necessary, including when the time of police custody is extended due to the particular circumstances of the investigation. It is therefore not a matter of limiting the duration of video surveillance to 24 hours.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u188	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Anthoine to support Amendment No. 76.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u189	Video surveillance in police custody should not be limited to 24 hours, especially when it concerns the most serious cases. That is why Mr Hemedinger's amendment proposes that the video surveillance system provided for in Article 7 should be implemented throughout the period of police custody.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u190	Mrs Laurence Trastour-Isnart has the floor to support Amendment No. 302.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u191	This amendment by my colleague Eric Ciotti aims to allow video surveillance throughout police custody and not just during the first 24 hours.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u192	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 33.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u193	Amendments Nos 33 and 35 have the same objective, but set out differently, as Amendment No 31. It is a matter of anticipating the fact that not all police custody takes 24 hours and that some can be extended. Therefore, for those who are prolonged, the duration of the video surveillance should be able to be adjusted. As the representatives of the police unions interviewed indicated, the danger of escaping or endangering the person in custody is often greater during the extension of police custody than during the first hours.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u194	Amendment No 35 by Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard is being defended. What is the Committee's opinion on the amendments under joint discussion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u195	With regard to the identical amendments, the ceiling on the initial period of video surveillance, set at 24 hours, derives directly from the Constitutional Council's decision of 20 May last, which had censored the provisions governing video surveillance of police custody facilities, particularly in view of the potentially very long period during which the judicial authority had no decision-making power. The accuracy of the duration of video surveillance is therefore one of the conditions guaranteeing the constitutional balance of the system. The placement under video surveillance may then be renewed every 24 hours until the release of police custody if authorized by the competent judicial authority. Unfavorable opinion, therefore. With regard to Mrs Ménard's Amendments Nos 33 and 35, there is also reason to place them under video surveillance, since there are risks of escape, attempted suicide or assault within an initial limit of 24 hours. There is therefore no need to place a detainee under video surveillance if these risks are not attested. After 24 hours, it is necessary for the competent judicial authority to give its authorization, which guarantees the constitutionality of the system. Unfavorable opinion, too.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u196	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u197	Perhaps I can take the opportunity to respond to the two types of excesses that I have heard coming from the left and right of the Government benches. Coming from the left of the Chamber, I heard Mr Clément, hoping that he would not be mad at me to put him that way. Member of the European Parliament, by definition, a person in police custody is kept in police custody. It is somewhat surprising to hear that the technology of video protection cameras, which are so useful, which no one can reasonably challenge from now on, and which protect property and people and combat insecurity, should not be used to look at a person in the direction of monitoring or protecting him or her against himself or herself or to protect the police or gendarmerie services. Mr. Bernalicis mentioned destroyed or damaged cameras, but it's not the police who have fun breaking them. It is possible that among all persons held in police custody there are a few dangerous people – it is not just a russeauist theory – and that these cameras are important for the people themselves or for those they might attack or rape – and we all know that this exists every day in police stations and gendarmerie brigades. These images are also useful when we know that they are often necessary, unfortunately if I dare to say, to prove the good faith of the police or the gendarmerie or to better condemn the person by a criminal response based on undisputed evidence. It is therefore a good idea for the rapporteur to recall the common sense of practice we are talking about. I will not go into the details of the speech of saying that the less cameras there will be, the more women and men will be needed to monitor people and the less women and men will be on the street. That is the opposite of what a number of you said in the previous debates about the proximity or presence police. I now turn to the right side of the Chamber – I would like to put Mrs Ménard apart because she is concerned about coherence and, as I see, she is not going against the opinion of the Constitutional Council – to address the parliamentarians who have defended Mr Hemedinger's and Mr Ciotti's amendments. That's another excess. We can share the expectations they evoke. Simply, the Constitutional Council censored these provisions a few weeks ago, considering that they were contrary to the Constitution. What is the point of proposing a provision that is certain to be contrary to the Constitution and censored again? Is it a role for government parties to play in the face of a very recent decision of the Constitutional Council that was indeed a censorship rather than an interpretative decision? We could discuss a constitutional amendment that would eventually allow for 48 hours of filming persons in police custody, but we are discussing an ordinary law. You are proposing a device that you are well aware that it cannot be incorporated into French legislation and you are seeking the advice of the Government. That's a funny way to build the French law! In a way, it is a mockery of the rule of law and of political and parliamentary work, for if the heart can say yes, reason cannot and no one can reasonably defend what the Constitutional Council has found to be contrary to the Constitution, in any case to the constitutional block. It is for this reason that I express an unfavorable opinion on these amendments, regretting that they are tabled, I want to say with great friendship, by people who should prefer to be part of the governmental axis of construction rather than to follow such a demagogic axis, it must be said, since by definition what they propose is impossible.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u198	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u199	I would like to respond to the minister's statement that there would be a consensus in favour of the use of video surveillance tools and techniques, the usefulness of which, if I understood correctly, would be recognized by all. I believe there is actually a disagreement: the opposition does not consider video surveillance tools to be self-evident. This is not our case, in any case, nor is it the case of many others, including many human rights organisations, who do not consider that video surveillance in every corner of the street and in every possible space is a step forward, nor do they prevent the commission of such acts, in any case no more than the work of humans who are not reduced to watching video surveillance images. It is to switch to another type of company to consider that installing cameras everywhere would eliminate any risk of infringements, that in any case, we would be more protected. We don't believe that. Perhaps if there were not this criminal inflation and if there was not a policy to place more and more people in police custody, there would not be as many situations of extreme violence against officers.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u200	That's amazing!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u201	Thus, as the press revealed, the prosecutor's office had been instructed to detain persons who had nothing to do with them, in order to prevent them from going to protest. There would certainly be less need for video surveillance if there were fewer people held in custody when they had nothing to do in custody.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u202	Politics has nothing to do with police custody!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u203	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u204	This is a very interesting debate, Mrs Obono, but I think you are wrong about a political regime: it is not the Minister of the Interior who decides on police custody but the judicial authority. I'm not the one who deprives people of their freedom!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u205	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u206	Not in flagrance, Mr. Minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u207	This frontal attack on our country's justice surprises me and even shocks me. As for you, Mr Bernalicis, you have just returned to the Chamber, you were out when Mrs Obono referred to a policy that would aim to place people in custody.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u208	It's a good one!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u209	That's why I was amazed at this frontal attack on the judiciary. I'm shocked to tell you everything.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u210	It's called the flagrance investigation!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u211	As far as video protection is concerned, excuse me, Mrs Obono, but I did not say that there was a need for cameras in all public places, but between everything and nothing, there seems to be a way that we can all embark on. On the other hand, there is clearly a fairly strong difference between the principles and their application. There are communist mayors who are installing video protection cameras in their city, and in numbers: I know some of them, and it seems to me that they are people who love human rights, since you take this example.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u212	It doesn't stop them from making mistakes, and it's one!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u213	There are even people who, after defending the same arguments as you, finally came out of ideology in front of the effectiveness of these tools. So Mrs Aubry, after having spent years explaining that she would not install video protection cameras in her city, now installs a large number of them – you do not ignore it, Mr Bernalicis, since part of Lille is in your constituency, it seems to me.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u214	So what?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u215	It also calls for the support of the State to install them, which we gladly grant to them. We will sign next Friday in Rennes...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u216	It doesn't change what I said!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u217	If I may say that, it is because you tell me that there is no consensus. After a lot of opposition to video protection, the Mayor of Rennes will sign a contract with the State, which will allow for an increase in the number of video protection cameras in her city. Mrs. Mayor of Nantes...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u218	Socialists do not know where they live; It's not our fault!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u219	The mayor of Nantes, that of Lille, that of Rennes, I could multiply the names of socialist or communist elected officials, supported by majorities in which you sometimes sit, who install video protection cameras.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u220	And we oppose it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u221	You don't have a town hall to deal with!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u222	In Lyon, they're taking the cameras off!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u223	Ladies and gentlemen, this is not a discussion with the Minister! Let the minister speak.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u224	There is a rather strong difference in the end between ideology – it's not a big word for me – and practice, when, in connection with the citizens the police, we have the task of solving the concrete problems of people. [[Exclaims on FI banks]] I hope that you will one day have the opportunity to exercise municipal responsibilities because it is a great experience to manage the concrete lives of people: you will then realize that without going into the excess of the "every camera", you cannot deprive yourself of such technology. You yourself, by filming yourself with your phone, accept that people who are neither controlled by Parliament nor supervised by the rule of law can watch these images, and sometimes even you accept facial recognition or voice recognition. We could discuss this for a long time, Mrs Obono, but I think that the video protection cameras, not only prevent risks, without completely eliminating them, I fully agree on this point, but also allow – everyone knows it here and there is no doubt about it – more than any tool, in particular in connection with the technical and scientific police, to find people and bring them to justice. So let us not be afraid of this debate, even if I am surprised that you are showing such an ideological delay on an issue that has been debated for 15 or 20 years.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u225	That's right, and we lost!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u226	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group. – Mrs Blandine Brocard also applauds]] It's a shame, but you have to accept that even left-wing people, activists or at least communist mayors are simply pragmatic.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u227	Amendment No 149 by Mrs Marie-George Buffet is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u228	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u229	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u230	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u231	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u232	The minister has given us political practices that are not ours and that we recuse when we belong to the same majorities as Communist comrades. We do now have some hindsight on this issue, as successive governments – and you are part of the same policy – have agreed to consider the need to install more and more cameras all over the world for years to come. We continue to oppose it and we are not the only ones. I also confirm, even if these were not instructions from the Ministry of the Interior, that in 2019, in a note addressed to all magistrates on 12 January, the Prosecutor's Office issued instructions on the judicial treatment to be reserved for yellow vests arrested in mass in previous weeks.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u233	There! It's called justice! Stop attacking the magistrates!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u234	This is not an attack: I simply refer to an article in the press that referred to unorthodox, at least, police custody. I used this example to tell you that some of the police are out of place, that people who should not be in custody should not be deprived of their liberty, and that they should have to use these widespread surveillance techniques, the logic of which remains a problem for us. It is not an insult to the work of the police to say it, on the contrary: it is to think that it is possible to do a republican police job without the use of these extremely intrusive and problematic tools.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u235	Mrs Lamia El Aaraje has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u236	Since the Minister of the Interior recognizes the merits of some mayors from my political family, I would like to recall that in this debate we tabled an amendment on videoprotection, which unfortunately was considered inadmissible – but I will not resume our debate yesterday on the right of amendment. In this area, perhaps one of the ways to get out of it is, as in Paris, where I am elected, to create a video protection ethics committee. It brings together people of very high quality, under the chairmanship of a magistrate, in this case Christian Vigouroux, which makes it possible to have extremely clear discussions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u237	It doesn't exist only in Paris!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u238	It has no binding value to my knowledge, but it can be a way to address the concerns expressed earlier. It is also a way of moving towards more protection. On this debate, we have moved forward collectively. The question now may be one of the framework for ensuring respect for and reassurance of fundamental freedoms.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u239	Amendment No 182 by Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u240	I have before me five amendments, Nos 385, 396, 367, 326 and 365, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 385 and 396 are identical. This is also the case with Amendments Nos 326 and 365. Mr Jean-Michel Clément has the floor to support Amendment No. 385.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u241	My lawyer is very attached to this amendment, which seeks to provide that "unless custody is null and void, the decision to place him under video surveillance or to renew him shall also be notified to the lawyer of the person who is the subject of the measure from the beginning of his intervention in police custody". This obligation, like the one provided for in the minutes of notification of rights, will ensure that the lawyer has been aware of the measures taken against his client and that he will be able to advise him as best he can in order to ensure that his rights are respected. It is also necessary to strike a balance between the action taken and the defence of the interests of the person in custody.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u242	Mrs Albane Gaillot has the floor to support Amendment No. 396.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u243	Defendant.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u244	Mrs Alexandra Louis has the floor to support Amendment No. 367.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u245	First of all, I would like to stress the particular interest of section 7, which meets a field requirement and which is of interest not only to police officers but also to detainees. The amendment I am proposing strengthens the constitutional basis of this article. Article 7 is accompanied by guarantees, including the fact that the person in custody is notified of the measure of placement under video surveillance and that he or she has the right, in particular, to request the end of the measure and the preservation of the images for a period of seven days following the lifting of his or her custody. In practice, you will agree, it will generally be up to the lawyer to carry out these steps. That is why the article provides that when the person is a minor, his or her lawyer must be informed without delay of the decision to place him or her under video surveillance. We understand why: minors are considered by our law to be vulnerable persons, unable to act in their own interests. The amendment is intended to extend this protection to persons who are incapacitated or who are under guardianship or guardianship. If these people are the subject of this type of action, it is because they are not able to know what is or is not in their interest or to take the necessary steps. They are people who can be ill, suffer from a disability or mental retardation. In fact, these individuals will not be able to take the necessary steps to request the removal of video surveillance or the preservation of images. It is well known, however, that in judicial life these persons are often victims of violence which may even occur between persons held in custody. It is important to recall that the Council of State, in its opinion, has, for example, stressed the duration of the preservation of these images by seeing it as a guarantee capable of strengthening the constitutional basis of the system. In order to make Article 7 effective, it is therefore necessary to extend the protection accorded to minors to adults who are protected.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u246	I call Mrs Lamia El Aaraje to support Amendment No. 326.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u247	In the continuation of the debate, the aim of this amendment is to make it possible for a lawyer to be informed in the event of video surveillance in the context of police custody and to avoid the misuse or unnecessary use of video surveillance.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u248	Mrs Alexandra Louis has the floor to support Amendment No. 365.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u249	I have already explained the proposed measure for protected persons: it is a question of allowing the appointed lawyer to be notified. This does not seem to me to present any practical difficulties, for the very simple reason that, when the lawyer presents himself under the custody measure, he is notified of various minutes, in particular to enable him to know whether the person in custody has seen a doctor. I do not think that this step would add to the procedure, but it provides a guarantee that the images can be kept for the rest of the day. As you have pointed out, Minister, these images are useful because they can help restore the truth and, in some judicial proceedings, show that such detention would have committed violence against, for example, another person in police custody. This provision is therefore interesting and also strengthens the constitutional basis of the article.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u250	What is the Committee's opinion on the amendments under joint discussion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u251	I shall first speak on all the amendments, before referring separately to Amendment No 367. We have indeed had a very interesting debate on this subject in committee and, basically, I do not think that these amendments specifically providing that lawyers of persons held in custody should be informed of the placement of their client under video surveillance are really necessary. On the one hand, a person held in police custody and placed under video surveillance can fully inform his/her lawyer of the implementation of this measure. On the other hand, the lawyer will necessarily be informed of the placement of his client under video surveillance by consulting the police custody record. These amendments would therefore lead to an administrative overload for the police, gendarmerie and customs services, without, however, being of real use in terms of the rights of the defence. However, although eloquence is not worth conviction, you have taken away my conviction, Mrs Louis, and, even if I express an unfavorable opinion on behalf of the committee, I will, in my personal capacity, issue a wisdom opinion on your amendment No 367.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u252	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u253	Mr. Clément asks that the lawyer be informed about the video surveillance of all detainees, and Mrs Louis and Mrs El Aaraje make the same request for the persons subject to legal protection – that is, in your mind, if I understand correctly, the persons under guardianship or guardianship. So I will give two different answers. Mr Clément, first of all, as Mrs Louis has said, the decision is notified to the person concerned, who can therefore, by definition, inform his lawyer, who is therefore not in absolute ignorance of the measure of videoprotection if it is decided. Secondly, the lawyer has access to the record of detention in custody, and can therefore find, since this will be notified, whether the person is the subject of video protection without having notified him or her, or if that is not the case. In addition, I would like to say that in a new text designed to formulate a criminal response and to assist law enforcement, it is not a question of increasing the length of proceedings. Indeed, the consequences of the measure you are proposing, which would apply under penalty of nullity and could lead to the removal of potentially dangerous persons – because, without underestimating anything, out of 100 per cent of people in custody, there is a certain probability of finding some potential evils. In fact, this is what will happen if the police officer correctly entered the measure in the PV – minutes – and notified the person concerned without notifying the lawyer – which, moreover is and as you know, can be present from the first hour of police custody and can therefore see things on its own. This seems a little disproportionate to me and adds over-legislation, over-administration, and increases the risk of nullity, which, by definition, is not the goal of general interest that we all pursue. It is therefore not ideology to tell you that the rights of the defence or of the person, to which I am very attached, are protected here. The case of minors, as has already been said, is provided for in the text and may give rise to specific situations. Like Mr Mis, I can be sensitive to Mrs Louis and Mrs El Aaraje's argument, but, although I understand that people under guardianship or guardianship can, for a great many reasons, misunderstand what they are told, I would not like to see arrangements made that would lead to the removal of persons who deserve to spend a few hours in police custody for the purposes of the investigation or for their protection. It is also not your point, Madame Louis, and I know, to see you at work in Marseilles and with the police, that you are not in favour of an over-administration that would prevent the police or the gendarmes from doing their job well. I would therefore like to know, because I have not had this information, the number of persons concerned, i.e. the number of persons in guardianship or in custody each year. It is a bit unfortunate that we have this debate now, but perhaps it will allow us to see it. I therefore propose that we adopt your amendment – at least I will deliver an opinion of wisdom, because the House will obviously do what it wants – but let us reserve the right to look at the exact consequences of this provision. I see little difference in wording between Mrs Louis' amendment and that of Mrs El Aaraje, but, on the general principle, I agree with this proposal. I shall leave the Chair of the Committee on Laws or the President of the Assembly to speak on the spirit of my speech. Nor do I want to lie to you, and perhaps I will come back to you, because there may be too many people involved, or there may be other arrangements to achieve this result. Thus, measures already exist for minors, who must, by definition, be protected, but the law does not provide that persons placed under guardianship or guardianship under other provisions must receive 100% notifications – this is somewhat the case, but not as much as is provided for minors. However, I fully understand and agree with your point. The Chairman of the Law Committee said that Amendment No. 367 should be retained. If you wish, the Government will therefore issue a wisdom opinion on this amendment. I am therefore against the following identical amendments, even if they are in the same spirit – let their authors forgive me. Opinion against the amendments tabled by Mr Clément and Mrs Gaillot, for the reasons I have mentioned. Mrs Louis, we will look at how many people are affected by this system and under what conditions things can be done to respect the rights of the weak – which I understand very well – without unnecessarily burdening the procedure.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u254	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u255	I am in favour of all these amendments, with a preference for the maximumists. The argument that if the person has a lawyer, it is enough for him or her to know that he or she is being placed under video surveillance so that he or she does not convince me because, first of all, things are not so simple. In fact, while some people are used to police custody, most of the roughly normal people are in a state of shock when they are locked up and don't know what's happening to them. Hence the importance of the notification to the lawyer, who has the full legal framework of the rights of the detained person, while the latter does not have this knowledge of the texts and that his custody is not the time when he is going to bribe the awesome law that we are voting – it is obviously ironically that I call it that. Failing that, therefore, to delete Article 7, the notification to the lawyer would already be something. Mr. Minister of the Interior, since you like syllogisms, I'm going to use one. You said that crime was progressing in society and that the corresponding figures were increasing. You often give press conferences about this and repeat it to the envious on the trays. However, video surveillance cameras have never been more numerous. Perhaps – this is a hypothesis – there is therefore no correlation between the number of video surveillance cameras in our country and the number of offences committed. I deliver this to you in bulk: you will do as you wish. For my part, my conviction is forged on this point. On the other hand, if we could limit the number of police custody, we could solve part of the problem. In fact, it is mainly the police officers who place them in custody, and they do so in flagrance, because it is the investigative framework that allows them to do so. They must then immediately notify the judicial authority, i.e. the prosecutor's office, but it is they who decide on the detention in police custody, whereas the decision formally falls under the authority of the prosecutor's office for the renewal of this measure after 24 hours. Of course, the prosecutor's office can lift it at any time when he or she is aware of it, but in reality he or she trusts the police and custody takes place. In many cases, even police custody lasts 24 hours, because it is difficult to contact the prosecutor's office after an hour and those who work the day and conduct the investigation return home: it is therefore better to let the person in custody spend the night and notify the next morning! The organisation of the police therefore also leads to fairly long periods of police custody, which could be reduced advantageously for everyone, and especially for the detained person, who is deprived of liberty when he is presumed innocent – and I know, minister, that you are committed to the presumption of innocence.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u256	Don't you?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u257	You can see that it is the police that provide the main activity of the Ministry of Justice, and that the prosecution is subjected to almost all the police custody. It is only in the context of investigations by the judicial police, in the event of a search, when a decision is made to go to a particular place, that the prosecutor really has the initiative of police custody. In the other cases, this is at the initiative of the police officers, who respond to the instructions of their hierarchy, and therefore of the Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u258	Mr. Bernalicis, you're unreasonable!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u259	Excuse me, Madam President! [[Smile on various benches]] Unreasonable, but not uninteresting!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u260	[[Smile]] You will allow me to respect the duty of reserve which is incumbent upon me in this matter! In this case, that was not the issue. Mr Antoine Savignat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u261	I am quite sceptical about these amendments, in particular about the advisability of informing the lawyer. Let us place ourselves on the side of the police officers who manage police custody: we would add to their tasks the drafting of a new report of the notification of the information of the person they come to see in police custody. On the other hand, if we choose one of these amendments – which I also hear perfectly – we must take them all. You have, Minister, rejected four of the five amendments on the grounds that the person who has a lawyer can talk to him, and that the lawyer will see what happened in the file. In custody, however, this is not the case: the lawyer does not have access to the file...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u262	Yes, I do!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u263	He therefore asks his client for the necessary information – i.e. whether he has been notified of all his rights. However, he cannot access the procedure, which is an investigation procedure, except as regards the notification of rights.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u264	That's what we're talking about!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u265	However, video surveillance can take place a long time after video surveillance. Indeed, a person who arrives in police custody is interviewed and notified of his rights, a first interrogation takes place, and it is only at the end of the examination that police officers may think that there is a danger to the person or to others. The minutes we are interested in may therefore only be written much later in the context of police custody, and sometimes not at all in the first 24 hours, but in the context of the extension. I repeat: I am very sceptical about the timeliness of the lawyer's information, but if we take an amendment, it is better to take them all.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u266	Mrs Alexandra Louis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u267	I will make two remarks. First, with regard to the amendments relating to the lawyer in general, notification to the lawyer does not necessarily mean that there will be an additional PV, since a PV is already provided for notifying the rights of the person in custody. On the other hand, protected persons are in a different situation, as other provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure provide them with additional guarantees, precisely because they are vulnerable. I insist on this because it covers a constitutional issue and I would not like this necessary article to be censored as such. Thus, as part of the confidence in the judicial institution bill, we have adopted very specific provisions for protected persons with regard to the possibility of filming trials, for the reasons I explained earlier.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u268	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u269	This debate is very interesting and the question we are discussing is what makes Parliament's role: to look at the means that you give to the Government and to the agents of the State until they deprive people of a freedom that you are the guarantors of. I therefore have no problem getting into the debate and finding that the question of Mrs Louis and several of her colleagues deserves to be discussed. Mr Savignat, I do not entirely agree with you. First of all, if we are obliged here to step up the criminal procedure with this PV, it is because the Constitutional Council obliges us to do so: this is not a will of the Minister of the Interior – for my part, I would have done well and I would gladly have stayed at the first reading of the first text that we tabled. Notifying the person in custody of the use of a camera will still be an administrative act of the police or gendarmerie, you say. Certainly, but we will do so no matter what, since it is requested by the Constitutional Council. I regret it, but we will. So I hear what you're saying, but it's not about discussing it here. Then, unless I make a mistake – we can make it clear during the shuttle between the two chambers – the lawyer does not have access to the file, since it is not judicial information. However, he has access to all the notifications, including the decision to place him under video protection, regardless of whether it takes place at the time of police custody or 12 hours later. It is therefore not correct to say that the lawyer can be made aware if the measure occurs at the beginning of the custody, but that it will not be so if the decision is then taken for reasons that you have presented very well. Louis, what makes me doubt the opinion to give on your amendment, even if I maintain my wisdom opinion, is that I do not know how the police and gendarmes will be able to determine that the person is under guardianship or guardianship. This will have to be looked at in addition to the question of the number of people actually involved. It's not obvious, because the information is not on their ID. The person can say it, his parents, or his lawyer too – you can imagine several solutions – but it won't be very spontaneous. For having seen and known in my commune, when I was mayor, people whose guardianship or curatelle was managed by the CCAS – the communal centre for social action – I know that they are fragile people and I hear your argument for their protection. But between the necessary protection on which I would like us to move forward and the unnecessary numbness of the procedure, we will have to judge and gauge. I would add that not all police officers and gendarmes want to comply with what Mr Bernalicis says by putting everyone in custody, using their weapons and abusing their power; There are very good people in the police and in the gendarmerie for whom it is simply not obvious whether the person is under guardianship or guardianship. That is another question to be answered.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u270	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-22-E3004.u271	Next meeting, at 9 a.m.: Further discussion of the draft law on criminal responsibility and internal security. The meeting is adjourned.
