ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u1	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the second part of the finance bill for 2022 (No. 4482, 4524).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u2	This afternoon, the Assembly began its examination of the appropriations relating to immigration, asylum and integration (No 4524, Annex 27 ; No 4525, Volume II; No 4526, Volume VII). Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u3	In Calais, it has now been 16 days since Anaïs Vogel and Ludovic Holbein, two voluntary associations, as well as Philippe Demeestère, chaplain of the Catholic Relief, were on hunger strike to protest the government's management of the situation of migrants. She and they protest against repression. "Expulsions are now taking place almost every day; Each time, exiles get their tents taken and find themselves homeless. And they get hit more and more often. In August, a person I know was caught by five or six policemen. They broke all his teeth and he had stitches in the back of his skull. This is what Anaïs entrusted to the newspaper La Croix. She and they protest against inhumanity, that of a government that ordered the evacuation of a camp, in Calais, just a few hours after the death of young Yasser, a 20-year-old Sudanese, hit by a truck while he was trying to join Britain; a government that prevents associations from helping refugees by banning food distributions in public spaces and harassing voluntary associations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u4	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u5	She and they protest against indifference. "We've come to a point where nothing shockes anyone anymore. evacuating people who just saw their friend die doesn't shock; taking their tents while it is cold doesn't shock them; barring fifteen-year-olds from sheltering themselves from rain under a bridge does not shock," Ludovic indignation. Well, that still shockes. And much more people than this government, which underestimates the sense of welcome and the spirit of solidarity of our people. We, members of the group La France insoumée, are shocked, even revolted, by the repressive policy carried out for several years in Calais and which has worsened over the last four years. We are shocked, revolted by the violent and incessant evacuations of camps that are repeated across the country. We are shocked, revolted by the disengagement of the State, as in Briançon or Rennes, where the associations struggle to offer lasting accommodation to all refugees excluded from the national reception system. [[Mr. Ugo Bernalicis applauds]] The dispatch by the minister of the interior of a mediator in Calais, since yesterday, will perhaps solve the hunger strike of Anaïs, Ludovic and Philippe, whose civic commitment we welcome and which we assure of our support. But as long as there is no political change, the underlying problem behind their action will not be resolved. That is why we will vote against the proposed 2022 budget for the Immigration, Asylum and Integration Mission. We are opposed to the security orientation chosen since 2017 by this government and this majority on these issues. We believe that the urgent need is to increase the construction of shelters and to guarantee the enjoyment by migrants of their fundamental rights. At least 60000 places are missing in the National Reception Scheme (DNA) for asylum seekers.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u6	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u7	But rather than building accommodation, the Government is accelerating the construction of administrative detention centres (CRA) and the use of house arrest – these detention centres in which it kept migrants and migrants during confinements and curfews, although it knew very well that they and they could not be returned, as a result of the closure of the borders. In these centres, families with children can be locked up for almost 90 days, in violation of our national and international commitments to the protection of human rights. [[Mr. Ugo Bernalicis applauds]] In terms of accommodation, therefore, the approximately 5000 additional places planned are derisory according to the needs. In addition, the release of the funds necessary for the creation of these places is conditional on their non-utilization under the Asylum Seeker Allowance (ADA). To simplify this year, we either have a roof, or we have an allowance to feed ourselves, to wash and to dress – and again, some migrants and some migrants do not benefit from each other. As a reminder, France was condemned last year for having subjected asylum-seekers to inhuman and degrading treatment, depriving them of a roof and sufficient resources to meet their basic needs. [[Mr. Ugo Bernalicis applauds]] We propose to increase the budget for the allowance for asylum seekers and asylum seekers and for the construction of accommodation places, as well as for prefectures and the French Office for the Protection of Refugees and Stateless Persons (OFPRA), in order to reopen the shops as requested by the associations, and to improve the conditions for the processing of asylum and residence applications. [[Mr. Ugo Bernalicis and Ms. Elsa Faucillon applaud]] We will therefore vote against the 2022 appropriations of the Immigration, Asylum and Integration Mission, because the proposed budget does not address the real urgency in this area, that of welcoming the women and men who seek refuge on our soil with dignity. We have the duty and the means to do so, and we, France, by relying on a majority of popular union, will make every effort to achieve this once in power.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u8	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u9	The review of the Immigration, Asylum and Integration Mission is an opportunity for us to give the alert. All the signals are in red: tougher police and judicial repression, release and legitimization of racist speech, increase of identity nationalisms. No substantive debate seems allowed and conservatives on all sides are instrumentalizing migrants and migrants, who find themselves dehumanized, while those who come to their aid are criminalized. Yet tomorrow's humanity is built on the foundations of today's welcome. Instead of implementing a policy that respects fundamental rights and freedoms, this budget, based on the law for controlled immigration, effective asylum and successful integration, known as asylum and immigration, will contribute by its effects to the logic of fear. While the President of the Republic was elected on the promise of a bulwark, he has since continued to legitimize the subjects of the far right. In the Government and in the majority, your share of responsibility in the current climate is no longer to be demonstrated.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u10	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u11	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u12	In the midst of the Afghan crisis, while the French and French were looking at the images of Afghans clinging to the wings of take-off planes and babies passed from hand to hand over the barbed wires, President Macron, rather than relying on the momentum of solidarity that was being heard, called in a reassuring tone to "prevent and protect us from large irregular migration flows". In short, he mixed everything, to confuse everything and get all dirty. In Calais, Father Philippe Demeestère, who went on a hunger strike with Anaïs Vogel and Ludovic Holbein after the death of a Sudanese teenager, says this with his words: "The hunger strike is going against all the intelligences that have ankylosed, sleek, what is happening in France. In 2021, in a democracy, it is unacceptable. There's something that breaks human fraternity. And as a French citizen, I'm ashamed. » [[Mr. Ugo Bernalicis and Ms. Danièle Obono applaud]] I am also ashamed, when I observe that in Calais, more than 97% of evictions from places of life were not followed by effective shelter, including winter. I am also ashamed of the deterioration of reception and accompaniment conditions, violations of fundamental rights and degrading treatment, particularly with regard to unaccompanied minors. Associations, Defender of Rights, European Court of Human Rights (ECHR) and international organisations point our finger at all these shortcomings. This budget has nothing to do with it, and you have nothing to do with it. Too few resources are available to the asylum authorities. In this respect, the main problem is related not so much to the length of time taken to investigate and to the length of time that each asylum application has before it is even registered. [[Mr. Ugo Bernalicis applauds]] On the other hand, almost half of asylum-seekers find themselves, for various reasons, in the so-called accelerated procedure, with the main effect of depriving them of the full guarantees and rights they should enjoy. The reduction in the time taken to investigate an asylum application, which may also seem to benefit the applicant, is in fact liable to affect him, because it shortens the time available to him to gather documents, testimonies, press articles and documentation. While the reduction of delays in the procedure is an objective shared by all actors in the asylum system, the authorities must ensure that the investigation of cases is carried out in an appropriate time frame. This budget then envisages the creation of 800 temporary accommodation places: this is largely insignificant in view of the large demand for housing. I still have in mind this Ethiopian family met in a tent, door of Aubervilliers: she had obtained the right of asylum but had no choice but to sleep outside. It should be noted that the French authorities have a duty to provide a reception system for asylum seekers and refugees, and that they may be held responsible for the failure of the national reception system. And what about receptions in the foreign services of the prefectures? I am testifying to this in the case of the Hauts-de-Seine, but I know that the situation is similar elsewhere: there are people who lose their jobs because of the lack of reasonable time required for the renewal of their residence permit. Every day we receive calls in this direction, especially the one recently made by a 39-year-old woman, a Vietnamese refugee who has been arriving in France for five years. She had obtained several successive residence permits, but too long periods of time prevented her from receiving a new one. She worked at Carrefour, where a lay-off plan took place: due to lack of papers, she lost her job.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u13	If she works at Carrefour, she's got papers!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u14	I would like to conclude my speech by referring to the prohibition of the confinement of children. Recently, in its judgment of 22 July 2021, the European Court of Human Rights again condemned France for non-compliance with the European Convention on Human Rights because of the placement in administrative detention of a mother and her infant, four months old, for eleven days, in disregard of the best interests of the child.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u15	Shameful!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u16	[[Mr. Pierre Dharréville, Mr. Ugo Bernalicis and Ms. Danièle Obono applaud]] This is a battle we have been waging since the beginning of the mandate. Many interventions, as tearing together, have been made in the Chamber, but no courageous measures of this kind have been adopted. To every child locked up in a CRA, it's our values that you lock up. The Group of the Democratic and Republican Left will vote against this budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u17	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u18	Mr Saïd Ahamada has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u19	Since 2017, immigration, asylum and integration have been key issues for the Government and for our majority, and their importance is reflected again this year by an increase in appropriations. For 2022, the budget allocated to the mission allocated to them thus amounts to EUR 1.9 billion in payment appropriations and thus shows an increase of 3.2%, even higher than in the previous year. These credits are in line with the law of 10 September 2018, the fruit of a policy based on the right balance between humanity and firmness: humanity first, so that the homeland of human rights can receive dignifiedly threatened people who wish to find refuge on our soil; Then, in order to enforce the law by removing those who do not meet the legal criteria for staying there from our national territory. This mission therefore has three main objectives: guaranteeing the right to asylum, integrating immigrants in a regular situation and controlling migration flows. Firstly, we are continuing the effort to simplify the process of processing applications for residence and asylum. In 2022, OFPRA is expected to be able to make 170,000 decisions and thus to break its record, thanks to the recent increase in its staff. The speed of decision-making is an essential link in our migration policy. In order to improve the care of asylum-seekers in our territory and to avoid the creation of camps, we strengthen the contributions that enable dignified living conditions. The allocation for asylum seekers is up 4%, with an increase in asylum applications in 2022. In this way, we want to continue the effort of budgetary sincerity associated with this expenditure, which has long been undervalued. We are also continuing the rationalization of the specific accommodation capacity, with more than 100,000 places in 2021. In 2022, an additional 4,900 places could be created, including 1500 places in reception and examination centres and 3400 places in reception centres for asylum seekers (CADA). The funds from the recovery plan will be used for the temporary establishment of 800 places in temporary shelters (CPH) to improve the care of the most vulnerable refugees. On the other hand, an effective immigration policy must be strong and ambitious in terms of integration. For example, we are increasing the funding for integration measures for refugees by €7.8 million and strengthening the resources devoted to the implementation of the renovated Republican Integration Contract (CIR), an essential component that doubles the training time in the French language and in civic education, while promoting the professional integration of people welcomed in France. I want to greet you with Aboubacar Diaby and Alieu Jallah, responsible for a migrant association created for migrants, who have told me nothing else about their needs today. Finally, the budget for the fight against irregular immigration is increasing by 12.5 %, which will allow us to continue to strengthen the already important resources allocated to keeping people in waiting areas or in administrative detention, as well as the removal procedures, while not forgetting the necessary social, legal and health support for those who are not admitted to the national territory. In particular, 32 million euros of payment credits will be invested in 2022 to increase the places in the administrative detention center: of the order of 140 places in Bordeaux, 140 places in Lyon and 90 places in Olivet. At the same time, EUR 17 million will be allocated for the health care of the persons selected, and EUR 9 million will be allocated for their social, humanitarian and legal support. Finally, EUR 56.52 million is spent on the costs of removal of persons in an irregular situation. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Thus, we welcome a budget allocation that gives the means to our asylum and immigration priorities, in line with the policy pursued throughout the mandate and in accordance with our national tradition of reception. The La République group is of course in favour of adopting the appropriations of the Immigration, Asylum and Integration Mission for the draft finance law (PLF) for 2022.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u20	Mr Mansour Kamardine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u21	Failure. Today we are looking at the credits of failure: that of migration policy, whether it is the fight against irregular immigration, asylum or integration. This draft budget is the fifth and final of the legislature, and it is the balance sheet. The Mission's appropriations increased by 73% between 2017 and 2022 to $1.9 billion in 2022. Asylum funds in the 303 programme account for 69 per cent of the Mission's expenditure and increase by 67 per cent in the same period. The appropriations for the 104 programme for integration and access to French nationality represent 23% of the Mission's appropriations and increase by 82%. The appropriations dedicated to the fight against illegal immigration represent only 7.5% of the Mission's appropriations even though they increase by 54% between 2017 and 2022. As for the funds strictly devoted to the removal of foreigners in an irregular situation, 36 million, and to the preparation of the return to the countries of origin, 9 million, they represent only 2.4% of the appropriations of the mission. But it's not just the credits that are making progress! The number of asylum seekers projected for 2022 is 147700, an increase between 2017 and 2022 of almost 50% in annual asylum applications. The total number of persons still in violation of the right of residence in the national territory is also increasing, including those who should be expelled as a matter of urgency because of the public order disturbances they create or the various criminal or criminal acts they commit. The increasing number of attacks by foreigners in an irregular situation, as most recently against law enforcement officials in metropolitan France and elected officials in Mayotte, is a testament to this. There is little more than the number of OQTFs executed – obligations to leave French territory – which is declining. The end of the legislature will have been mainly marked by an important effort to benefit the conditions for the reception of refugees, the conditions for the accommodation of asylum seekers and the conditions for accommodation in administrative detention. It is, in a way, a legislature to upgrade to the European standards of reception and accommodation. Controlling our borders and illegal flows will never have been a priority. As the most illustrious of the French leaders assumed everything, from Clovis to the Committee of Public Salvation, I am convinced that the minister of the interior assumes everything from 2017 to 2022, even though he is only responsible for the mission since last year. A failed policy despite a strong increase in the financial resources of the mission: this assessment formulated by the group The Republicans are shared by a large majority of the French. This failure is due to a lack of coherence and resolution against three scourges: the massive misuse of the right of asylum, which mobilises the majority of the Mission's appropriations, the instability induced by the "at the same time" orientations of migration policy and the European Capharnaum in terms of border control policy. From a budgetary point of view, the mission's three programmes account for only 28 per cent of the State's migration and integration resources. It is therefore necessary to strengthen the alignment of the 17 programmes which contribute to cross-cutting policy. There is a lack of interdepartmental coordination around a clear, firm and stable direction over time. The recent diplomatic tensions on the issue of consular laissez-passer are evidence of this. Nevertheless, under this ministry I note a strong inflection. Mr Darmanin's announcements on his trip to Mayotte two months ago are clearly in the right direction. Finally, a coherent policy seems to be poised. Thus, efficiency in controlling migration flows can be hoped for. But I look forward to seeing you turn your words into action as soon as possible and I encourage you to extend the measures envisaged for Mayotte to cover the entire national territory. I am thinking, in particular, of our Calaivian compatriots, to paraphrase our excellent draftsman Pierre-Henri Dumont. In this spirit, the Group of the Republicans proposes, in the first place, to affirm our sovereignty in matters of migration, for France is not a land without a master. Secondly, to forcefully recall that France is a multicultural nation, refractory to communalism, in which there is enough diversity for those who become French to emancipate themselves there without having to import customs or customs contrary to the republican ideal. Having said that, the LR group called for decisions on the obligation to leave the territory to be systematically followed by expulsion, for foreign offenders to be systematically removed from the territory and for the right of asylum to be refocused on political asylum. We also call for asylum seekers to make their applications at our consular posts. In addition, as the rights of nationality, residence, asylum and integration have been developed on the basis of a policy promoting immigration in the context of the Thirty Glorious, we propose to review it in depth with a software developed on the basis of long-term migration risks. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Until these proposals are taken into account, the Republican Group will not be able to adhere to the majority policy or to the budgetary instruments that support and accompany it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u22	Mrs Isabelle Florennes has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u23	The Republic knows how to reach out. This is proof of the recent naturalization of more than 12,000 workers of foreign nationality, on the front line during the crisis of the covid-19. Along with many others, they have allowed our country not to be completely paralyzed during confinement by exercising difficult and exposed trades. Throughout the era, the French have always demonstrated fraternity and solidarity in the face of migration crises, including the unprecedented crisis that has affected Europe since 2015. But if our country, the second largest host country in Europe just after Germany, is to live up to the sometimes dramatic situations of foreigners coming to our territory, it is essential that we pursue a balanced migration policy. It must be founded on a true humanity in reception, on real and effective integration and on the legibility and effectiveness of our action to bring those who are not destined to remain in our territory back to the border. The issues raised by the mission we are looking at today's appropriations are among the priorities of the Group of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats. I also welcome the work of the rapporteur Jean-Noël Barrot and the rapporteur for the opinion Élodie Jacquier-Laforge. The appropriations allocated to this mission in the PLF for 2022 are marked by an increase of almost 4%, including the payment appropriations provided for in the recovery plan. This budgetary effort is an example of a willingness to act more and better. This includes faster delays in the registration and processing of asylum applications. I would like to commend the progress that has been made in this area. The deadline for registration of files in the prefecture at the single asylum offices (GUDA) is 2.4 days, i.e. below the target of three days. Moreover, in line with the action plan deployed since 2017, the deadline for examination by the French Office for the Protection of Refugees and Stateless Persons and the National Court of the Right to Asylum (CNDA) tends to be around six months on average. The Asylum and Immigration Act of 2018 has also strengthened the resources dedicated to processing applications, and jobs within OFPRA have been created. The asylum-seeker's allowance also ensures a better reception. In this budget, it is experiencing a significant increase of more than €18 million compared to the initial finance law for 2021. This brings the ADA budget to EUR 473 million. Accommodation also plays an essential role. The approximately 6000 accommodation places provided for in this budget are part of a proactive approach aimed at making up for a significant delay in this area. In addition to improving the reception and treatment of asylum seekers, we must pursue a clear and effective policy to combat irregular immigration. I am convinced of the need for a significant investment in administrative detention centres. Too often, the lack of places in these centres does not allow the effective implementation of the policy to combat irregular immigration. Our group welcomes the increase of more than 12% in appropriations to finance these investments in CRAs and the operating costs associated with opening new places. Colleagues, we must also address other issues, including integration and access to French nationality. I am thinking of mastering the French language, civic training or access to employment. This budget should make it possible to make concrete progress in this direction. In conclusion, I would like to stress the importance of not just reasoning at the national level in the management of migration crises. Our group fully shares the statement of the Secretary of State for European Affairs, Clement Beaune, for which "our migration policy can only be European". Unfortunately, Member States, divided on migration issues since the 2015 crisis, struggle to provide a common answer to the question of migrants arriving at the external borders of the European Union. We hope that France, within the framework of the Presidency of the Council of the European Union for the first half of 2022, will be able to work effectively towards real convergence towards a common migration policy. Colleagues, the Dem Group will approve the appropriations for the Immigration, Asylum and Integration mission. (Applause from the Dem and LaREM groups)
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u24	Mr Gérard Leseul has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u25	As in previous years of this quinquennium, the budget devoted to asylum and immigration falls under the policy of the figure. The main objective is staggering: to combat migration flows, to process asylum applications more quickly and to expel more. In the same spirit as the budgets for 2019, 2020 and 2021, the 2022 Finance Bill sets the tone from the front lines of the budget presentation. It is the security dimension that predominates largely with the development of the fight against illegal immigration through the introduction of biometrics in visas, the strengthening of border controls and the revitalization of the policy of expulsion. The anxiety tone is also called when significant migratory flows are observed and the need to control them. With regard to the right to asylum, the budget document recalls the constitutional principles that govern positive law. Thus, everyone must be guaranteed the impartial examination of their application by a public institution. In this context, every asylum-seeker has a right to stay, accommodation and social care. France received over 100,000 asylum applications in 2017, 123625 in 2018 and 132826 in 2019. There was a sharp decrease in 2020 with approximately 96,000 requests. The asylum budget is emblematic. The objectives are perfectly quantified, since the average time for the examination of the asylum application by OFPRA – which was recalled earlier – must not exceed six months, two of which are for the investigation alone. To this end, the 2021 Finance Bill created 200 full-time equivalents (FTEs), of which 150 were specifically dedicated to education. No additional effort is made in the PLF for 2022. It is regrettable that at no time has any thought been given to the qualitative dimension of the asylum procedure. While this is a constitutional right, the main question should be whether our procedures ensure its effectiveness. However, the recruitments of recent years at OFPRA raise concerns about the implementation of an asylum policy carried out by new inexperienced protection officers and a policy of numbers. Regrettably, the level of training of OFPRA officers remains a blind point in asylum policy, while this element essentially conditions the effectiveness of the law attached to it. With regard to the budget allocated to reception and accommodation, we regret that it is far from meeting the challenge we face in the name of human rights. The current situation is quite upbuilding. In the absence of sufficient places in reception facilities, migrants arriving on French soil often find themselves living on the streets, handed over to themselves, in conditions that the Defender of Rights calls inhumane. In this regard, the efforts announced by the Government do not seem to be commensurate with the situation. By comparison, 1500 places in CADA were planned in 2018 and 1000 in 2019, while 15,000 places had been created between 2015 and 2017. While the 2021 budget provided for the creation of 6000 additional accommodation places, the blue for 2022 is not very clear about the number of places actually created, while these 6000 promised places did not even make it possible to catch up with the backlog, since the PLF for 2020 had not created any. For 2022 the number of places mentioned, 700 in particular in the CAES – reception and situation assessment centres – and in the temporary accommodation centres under the recovery plan seems to us, again, insufficient. The PLF for 2022 is marked by enormous uncertainty since it is stated that "in 2022, provided that the appropriations for the allowance for asylum seekers are sufficient in view of the information known at the end of the first half of the year, 4900 additional places could open". Note the use of the conditional. [[Applause on the SOC and GDR benches]] It is also a matter of concern that the 2022 budget, like the previous budget, is largely based on the desire to fluidize the withdrawal of the rejected asylum rights. What does that mean? Expulsion more to accommodate better? According to the last report of CIMADE, "despite the massive creation of places, the national reception system houses only half of the people". I continue with the quote: "Accordingly, more than 60000 people receive the additional amount of the asylum-seeker's allowance [...]. About 30000 others are deprived of these conditions because they have applied for asylum more than 90 days after their arrival, have applied for a review or are considered at large during the Dublin procedure. This means very concretely that Afghans present on French territory and having made a request for a review since the Taliban came to power are condemned to camp here or there and most often in unworthy camps in our country and its tradition of reception. It is essential to recall that human rights are not conditional.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u26	Mr Christophe Euzet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u27	In a globalized society, with its geostrategic difficulties and its mobility and mobility facilities, migration phenomena are in a certain way inevitable. Prosperous territories, which become places of destination, inevitably face the phenomenon of immigration. On the basis of this observation, what attitude does one choose to adopt collectively towards these people? This attitude reflects what we are. Radical policies are either to refuse the reality of the problem, to deny its intensity, or to propose turnkey solutions that would lead us to an unrealistic autarchic retreat, as the most reasonable of us readily agree. Perhaps we must turn to a radically reasonable attitude, which is perhaps not the most spectacular. It consists of finding an intermediate solution, certainly not leading to a self-satisfaction because the problem still exists, in a pregnant way, and moves us deeply, but certainly not to self-flagellation either because, according to the Group of the European People's Party, this issue is taken into account with a keen sense of responsibility. It gives rise to a balanced, fair and three-pronged policy, set out in the mission we are looking at this evening, which seems to us to be taking full measure of the problem. First of all, it is necessary to control the flows with a certain firmness because, as we know, we cannot welcome everyone, that would not be sustainable. Secondly, we must guarantee the effectiveness of the right of asylum for those whom we believe they should benefit. For them, procedures must be clear, fair and humanistic. We owe it to them, it is the very principle of the rule of law. Thirdly, it is a matter of integrating immigrants in a regular situation in the best possible way within the framework of what I will call republican humanism. Of course, overall, we must welcome the significant increase in the budgetary appropriations we are studying this evening: this shows that the phenomenon we are facing is being taken into account to its proper extent. When we look at this mission in more detail, we welcome a number of provisions. Their aim is to control migratory flows and to contain them by limiting themselves to those who regularly fit into our legal framework. In our view, the aim of increasing the rate of removal is positive; The same applies to all measures aimed at improving the situation in administrative detention centres. The improvement of the conditions of preparation for return should also be welcomed. This principle of practical reason is accompanied by a principle of legal reason based on humanistic values. The guarantee of the right to asylum thus goes, in particular, through the promotion of access to employment. We must welcome the increase in the amounts earmarked for the management of ADA, as well as the dematerialization of procedures, which reduces the processing times for applications and thus improves the status of those who are in a situation of waiting. With regard to the third point, the integration of immigrants in a regular situation and their potential access to French nationality, the principle of republican humanism prevails, through the improvement of reception and accommodation conditions, which we must rejoice at. Accelerated, optimized processing of naturalization files is another source of satisfaction in our view. We strongly called for measures to promote the integration of foreigners, particularly with regard to the learning of French – this has been noted on several occasions – and we welcome the fact that these measures have been taken. In conclusion, the magic wand that would solve all the problems does not exist, but show negationism...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u28	Oh, there!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u29	...about an inevitable fact does not offer any solution. On the other hand, fair, humanistic proposals, faithful to the rule of law, balanced and showing our commitment to the Republic, seem to us to be a reasonable path. That is why, Madam Minister, we will vote on the appropriations for this budgetary mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u30	We're done with the interventions of the group spokespersons. The Deputy Minister for Citizenship has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u31	The appropriations of the Immigration, Asylum and Integration Mission are placed at the service of a migration policy that we want to control and balance. This balance is based both on humanity and on clarity: humanity in the reception and integration of refugees and foreigners admitted to stay in France; but also the clarity vis-à-vis those who enter irregularly into the national territory, who remain there without right or title or who, condemned, are unworthy of the confidence that the Republic had placed in them by welcoming them. Because immigration, asylum and integration issues are one of the priorities of the Ministry of the Interior, the 2022 Finance Bill allows for an increase of €58.4 million over the initial 2021 Finance Act. These appropriations are supplemented by EUR 16 million in payment appropriations under the recovery plan, bringing the appropriations for 2022 to EUR 1.92 billion, an increase of almost 4% compared to the initial finance law for 2021. This important budgetary effort aims to empower us to do more and better through the mission's two programs: Immigration and Asylum – Program 303 – and Integration and Access to French Nationality – Program 104. The Immigration and Asylum programme, first of all, illustrates the Government's determination to better accommodate but also to better combat irregular immigration. Real estate investment in the CRAs is evidence of the Government's determination to remove people who are not destined to remain in the national territory. It is EUR 143.9 million that is entered in the PLF for 2022, an increase of 12.5 %, mainly for the investment of CRAs and the operating costs associated with the opening of new CRA places. In addition, the arming of existing and future CRAs can be reduced by outsourcing the so-called non-regal functions performed so far by civil servants active in CRAs. At this stage, it is planned to outsource escort vehicle driving, visitor management, gatekeeping, fire safety and luggage storage. This will eventually result in an increase in the number of police officers of the order of 140 after 2023. As regards our willingness to receive better, the main expenditure of this programme relates to the reception and accommodation of asylum seekers. This translates into a significant increase in the budget allocated to ADA, with an additional 18.2 million compared to the initial finance law for 2021, bringing the budget to EUR 473 million. This increase illustrates the nation's efforts to welcome asylum seekers and the sincerity of this budget construction. In 2019, OFPRA received more than 132,800 requests, which makes our country the second largest host country in Europe, just behind Germany. The short-term reduction in asylum applications in 2020, which fell by 27% in the context of the health crisis, does not call into question this dynamic, a fortiori in view of the political developments in Afghanistan, which everyone is experiencing, and the economic effects of the health crisis in the countries of the South. This budgetary effort is also reflected in an increase in the housing stock, which could be 5700 places in 2022 if the evolution of the expenditure on allowances for asylum seekers, whose level remains subject to hazards, does not exceed the forecast. The accommodation park for asylum seekers and refugees would thus reach 118087 places and would consist of 6341 places in CAES, or 1500 more places; 50032 places in CADA, i.e. 3400 more places; 51796 emergency accommodation places, a figure stable compared to 2021; Finally 9968 places in CPH, i.e. 800 more places. I would also like to mention the improvement in the processing times for asylum applications, which has long been a priority of the Ministry of the Interior, and for which we are seeing an encouraging trend. OFPRA thus reduced the number of cases under investigation from 88000 in October 2020 to 53000 in September 2021. This improvement makes it possible not only to welcome those who are entitled to refugee status and therefore to the protection of France, but also, a contrario, to respond quickly to those who are not intended to remain in our territory. It will have an impact on the amount of ADA but also on the fluidity of the accommodation park. I would like to point out that, under the PLF for 2022, the subsidy granted to OFPRA amounts to EUR 93.2 million, an increase of 0.4 million. Moreover, as mentioned earlier and as I had the opportunity to announce during the examination of the text in committee, the Ministry of the Interior, on the proposal of the deputies Annie Chapelier and Stella Dupont, created a platform for citizen sponsorship of refugees, which allows every citizen who so wishes and who has manifested himself in this direction to accompany the integration of Afghan refugees in France. I thank those who have already embarked on this journey. With regard to programme 104 Integration and access to French nationality, since 2018 the Government has initiated, at the request of the President of the Republic, a reform of the integration policy. It gives itself the means to carry out an ambitious policy through all the measures adopted in 2018 and 2019 by the Interministerial Committee on Immigration and Integration, thanks to a dedicated budget, which remains at a high level and increases by almost 2% to €438.7 million in the PLF by 2022. Priority actions include mastery of the French language, civic training for the sharing of the Republic's values, access to employment or the care of certain special situations, in particular that of refugees. These actions are carried out by the Office français de l'immigration et de l'integration (OFII), as well as by project promoters and operators. I would also like to pay tribute to the associations and people who are engaged on the ground every day. The staff of the OFII will increase by 19 FTEs over 2021, to 1187 FTEs, while the budget allocated for its operation will increase by €7.8 million. With the addition of EUR 11 million in intervention appropriations – the same amount as in 2021 – OFII's appropriations will thus be increased to EUR 256.8 million under the PLF for 2022. I thank the speakers who mentioned the naturalization of the 12,000 workers engaged on the front line during the covid-19 epidemic. The President of the Republic, the Prime Minister, the Minister of the Interior and I have considered that these persons of foreign nationality, who have worked as cashier, security officer, cleaning agent, in the shops, or in the professions of care or custody of children during the periods of confinement, have taken a step towards the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u32	Only one step?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u33	They are now more than 12,000 citizens of France and our fellow citizens, and I welcome them. With regard to measures to integrate foreigners in a regular situation, I should like to point out that the 37 per cent increase in appropriations is the result of a transfer of the integration activities of refugees from Action 15 to Action 12, which only included the integration actions of first-time arrivals last year. This explains, symmetrically, the decline of 19% in refugee support measures compared to the original 2021 finance law – for those who wondered about this. One of the best examples of integration actions for refugees is the launch of the Global Individualized Refugee Support Programme (AGIR). On the basis of the observation of existing programmes, such as the Employment-Oriented Housing (HOPE) programme, we estimate that around 8000 refugees in 27 departments will be able, from 2022 onwards, to benefit from this programme and the accompanying accompaniments – the departmental single window mandated by the State, the individualised global accompaniment to move towards employment and better integration, or the Republican integration contract. This programme, piloted in an inter-ministerial framework, will take into account the various aspects of integration and will be financed from the appropriations of the Immigration, Asylum and Integration Mission by redeployments and by adding 2.6 million euros. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] I conclude by reaffirming the will, shared by Interior Minister Gérald Darmanin and myself, to be fair in our action in favour of those who join our country. This finance bill enshrines the reform of immigration and integration policies initiated since 2017, which here finds a concrete and precise budgetary translation. The appropriations for the Immigration, Asylum and Integration Mission have thus increased from 1,056 billion euros in 2017 to nearly 2 billion in the PLF by 2022, which will allow the ambitious implementation of the reforms that I have just presented.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u34	We come to the questions. Let me remind you that the duration of questions and answers is set at two minutes. Mrs Cendra Motin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u35	When a person seeking refuge in France, because he has no other solution than to flee his country to save his life, he arrives somewhere – in a region, a department, a city. It is where she finds refuge, where her long journey stops, that the Republic must help her rebuild herself. Voting laws to guarantee rights and to take directives from Paris is useful, if not necessary, but it is not enough. The State services, in particular the prefectures, carry out important field work, but they alone cannot do everything. To be as close as possible to the territories and needs of refugees, whose rights must be real and not theoretical, territorial contracts for the reception and integration of refugees (CTAIR) have been proposed to communities to co-build solutions and to unblock key funding to local actors. To date, a dozen metropolises have embarked on this process, three of them in the Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region, but others are working on it. But to better accommodate refugees across the territory, communities need to be even more engaged. What measures do you intend to implement to involve them more in the integration of foreigners into the territories?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u36	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u37	I fully agree with you that we need a joint commitment from government departments and communities to receive refugees as best we can. First of all, I would like to thank and salute the mayors and communities who have committed themselves, sometimes discreetly, but always effectively, to better welcome refugees, particularly in the context of the Afghan crisis. We have indeed deployed CTAIRs, which can also take the form of CTAIs, territorial contracts for the reception and integration of first-time arrivals. Fourteen have been signed to date, the last of which has been signed with Édouard Philippe, Mayor of Le Havre and former Prime Minister, who has thus committed himself to receiving refugees even better. These contracts are systematically financed by State appropriations. In the example I have mentioned, the latter will spend EUR 150,000 to support the action of the community. The latter, on the other hand, is committed either to very concrete elements, sometimes material – accompaniment towards employment, prioritisation of access to childcare places, support at school – or by encouraging refugees to participate in the life of the municipality. No better than elected officials and local associations are aware of the activities, football matches, kermesses and local festivals in which refugees can participate to be included in local life. Including refugees is not only not to exclude them: it is also to reach out to them, to accompany them and to invite them to join us and to sit at the table.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u38	Mr Jean-Claude Bouchet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u39	My question was for Mr.Gérald Darmanin, Minister of the Interior. Deputy Minister, immigration figures are rising again. Irregular immigration undermines society. You have just ensured that migration policy is the Government's priority. However, the measures presented in the Immigration, Asylum and Integration Mission of the Finance Bill unfortunately do not meet the challenges involved in the migration issue. As you know, migratory pressure is constantly increasing in the Mediterranean: irregular arrivals in Europe have increased by 83% in 2020. This situation has an impact on France. In the face of this pressure, the mechanisms for regulating and granting asylum are completely out of date. While the budget presented had increased from previous years, the challenges were beyond those means and the Government's response had shown that it was inefficient. In September 2021, France received 12,000 asylum applications. It is clear that, with the current means, the target of 60 days of average processing time for a case which the Government had set itself is well exceeded: this time limit reaches 150 days. In addition to this congestion, removal measures, such as the obligations to leave French territory, are very rarely applied: only 13% were applied in 2019. Migration policy, yet a high priority of the Government, is a failure. In the face of this alarming situation, the Mission's appropriations provide for the construction of 4,800 accommodation spaces for asylum seekers. These places are necessary. But how can we claim to ensure that asylum seekers are taken care of without addressing the root causes of the problem, in particular the lack of application of removal measures and the always endless delays in processing applications? There is also a need for better control over borders and for expulsion of applications to be followed, otherwise these measures will not be sufficient. The failure of the fight against irregular immigration is not only political or accounting: it weighs on the lives of the French on a daily basis. Does the Government really have the ambition to pursue an effective migration policy on the ground? When do you intend to implement it?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u40	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u41	You ask me if the Government is willing to implement an ambitious policy. The answer, obviously, is yes! In my remarks, I have detailed the draft budget that we have drawn up in this direction and presented the will that the Minister of the Interior and I share. First of all, it seems to me important to distinguish between two types of situations – which we have clearly done in the draft budget, on the basis of an almost philosophical assumption, I would say. On the one hand, they are people who are not intended to remain on French territory. You are right when you say that they must be returned to the border and that OQTFs must be executed. This is the sense of work that the Minister of the Interior, including on the diplomatic front, carries out, sometimes engaging in a power relationship with countries that refuse to issue consular passes. As you know, this situation has been going on for a long time. For the first time, France has taken strong action to ensure that FQOs are applied and consular passes are issued. On the other hand, some people are called upon to obtain refugee status: those who live in countries at war or are persecuted in their country of origin, girls threatened with female circumcision, LGBT + people threatened with death, or political refugees...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u42	This is not the majority of cases!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u43	... which France is destined to welcome, because it is also the country of human rights. That is why we have allocated significant funds to OFPRA, in order to apply the reduction in response times for asylum seekers adopted by the national representation in 2018.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u44	I call the immigration, asylum and integration mission's credits, which are listed in state B. I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 280. Would you like to present the following amendments at the same time, Madam Commissioner?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u45	Unfortunately, I will have to defend them separately, Mr President, because they are all very different. The review of the Immigration, Asylum and Integration Mission's funding shows that the increase in asylum claims since 2015 has not stopped. For example, in 2019, OFPRA received more than 132,800 applications. This unprecedented figure has made France the second largest host country in Europe, behind Germany. Of course, offering asylum is part of French humanist traditions, but can we be glad to see France becoming the second country of reception in Europe, when we know that very few applicants are actually eligible for asylum? Does France still have the means to welcome as it does? The mission's budget is based on 145,700 requests addressed to OFPRA in 2022 – more and more. Is the reception of these people possible in good conditions? Even Emmanuel Macron admits: France cannot welcome everyone if it wants to welcome them well. The current situation can no longer be sustained. It is time to pursue a truly controlled migration policy, a chosen immigration. Other democratic countries do. There is no shame in that. It is simply a question of justice for the French: one cannot give priority to welcoming the other when, in one's own country, poverty is only growing.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u46	Mrs Stella Dupont, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor to give the Committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u47	The amendments that you are defending, if they do differ from each other, all have the same objective: to reduce the means devoted to reception – to accommodation, to the allowance for asylum seekers, etc. – on the basis of the reasoning that the less resources would be devoted to it, the less immigrants would be welcomed. That's not how things work.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u48	It all depends on how the resources thus released are allocated!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u49	You are wondering about France's ability to accommodate a number of foreigners that you consider excessive. While it seems obvious to me that we cannot welcome the whole world, many reports and studies, of which I made a non-exhaustive list – a 2006 study by the International Monetary Fund (IMF), a 2013 study by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), a study published in the Journal of International Economics in 2014, a study published by Xavier Chojnicki in 2015, a report by France Strategy published in 2019, and another more recent OECD study – demonstrate all that immigration brings to France in terms of growth and productivity.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u50	You're distracting the debate!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u51	The latest data analysed by France Stratégie confirms this. I therefore believe that your assertions should be relativized to a great extent.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u52	And close your eyes to the problems!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u53	It seems to me that you are making a mistake with your proposal to reduce accommodation to reduce immigration – because that is what it is – and that we must instead implement a fair and balanced policy. That is why, even if the Committee on Finance has not considered this amendment – nor the following – I am issuing an unfavorable opinion in my personal capacity.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u54	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u55	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u56	Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u57	Of course, the Socialist and related group will not vote for any of your amendments, Mrs Ménard. We are proud that France is able to accommodate foreign persons seeking asylum, but the question of the means allocated for a proper reception persists. In this respect, Madam Minister Delegate, you say that there is one window per department: our commission of inquiry has found that people who arrive in Briançon must go to Marseille where the window is located, that is, three hours thirty by car or five hours fifteen by train! And they don't even have time to start the procedure, as they are stopped while travelling because of their irregular situation. We need to review this reception policy completely but, I repeat, we must be proud in France to welcome, and if so many people come, it is because our country proposes...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u58	His values!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u59	[[Applause on the SOC benches. – Mr Pierre Dharréville and Mr Bruno Questel also applaud]] ...a certain vision of the world and of humanity.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u60	I call Mr Pierre-Henri Dumont, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u61	These amendments, Mrs Ménard, run counter to the policy that you are advocating because, knowing that you will never be able to prevent people from coming to apply for asylum because it is guaranteed by the Geneva Convention, reducing the means, such as those of OFPRA, by reducing the number of full-time equivalents, means extending the processing times of cases, and thus increasing the overall volume of allowances paid for asylum applications, since they will be entitled to them for a longer period of time. Similarly, reducing the number of places in the reception centre for asylum seekers would result in them being sent to hotels that are much more expensive to the community. On the other hand, I agree with what you have said, Madam Special Rapporteur: immigration to France, because of its structure, is much more expensive than in other OECD countries.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u62	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u63	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] The report by Stephanie Do and I show that immigration to France is primarily family: labour immigration accounts for only 13%, compared with a third in other OECD countries. In addition, the average level of qualification of immigrants entering the labour market is 40% below or equivalent to the college patent, while 20% for the non-immigrant population: the price elasticity on wages is therefore much higher in France. Therefore, the cost of this essentially family immigration – even if these people will eventually work after a while – is negative for public finances. I stress that this is the only case for all OECD countries.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u64	Bravo! Good thing you're here!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u65	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u66	In response to the remarks made to me, I note that you are silent, Madam Special Rapporteur, on all the studies that show the cost of immigration to our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u67	That's not true! I've quoted them!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u68	Immigration "lucky for France", this is largely a fantasy, even if nobody denies it individually, people from immigration make a huge contribution to our country, but that is not the problem. Mr. Dumont recalled that immigration today is essentially family and, for its active part, affected by unemployment. Because of your policy, the first victims of poverty in France are immigrants, the ones you choose to let in without any control. Unfortunately, that is the reality.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u69	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 284.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u70	Another appeal amendment. In 2005, an IGAS report – the Inspectorate-General for Social Affairs – estimated that 2,500 unaccompanied minors (MNA) were present in the department's child welfare services (ASE); As at 31 December 2019, there were 310009. Yet they participate in an overbidding of violence. The MNA mission of the Directorate of Youth Judicial Protection estimates in September 2020 between 2000 and 3000 the number of unaccompanied juvenile offenders, i.e. about 10 per cent of unaccompanied foreign minors. Thus, there were already 6309 foreign minors arrested in the Parisian agglomeration for the first eight months of 2020, 300 more than the previous year over the same period. A recent parliamentary report provided a better understanding of the phenomenon, indicating that 75 per cent of unaccompanied minors prosecuted in the Bobigny Children's Court were officially 16 or 17 years old in 2020. Rémy Heitz, a public prosecutor at the judicial court in Paris and Aude Groualle, vice-procureur and head of the section for minors at the Paris Public Prosecutor's Office, noted that unaccompanied minors from Algeria, Morocco and Tunisia accounted for more than 75 per cent of minors in 2019, with minors claiming to be Algerians accounting for almost 50 per cent. The investigations carried out in 2020 by the Paris Public Prosecutor's Office show that the persons concerned regularly lie about their nationality in order to try to prevent identifications, seeking very much to conceal their Algerian nationality by falsely alleging a Moroccan nationality. The alarm bells are ringing. It is time to take this question with arms and seriously control the minority of these people because, if they are not minors, they should not be accepted in France but should be subject to an obligation to leave the territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u71	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 283.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u72	This amendment presupposes not only that France receives less and therefore has less to spend on integrating the people welcomed, but also that it welcomes better. I will not repeat the words of the President of the Republic that I have just mentioned. The amendment is therefore intended to abolish EUR 5.6 million allocated to the Republican integration contract, the CIR. In the budget blue for the Immigration, Asylum and Integration mission, we learn that this contract is limited to a personalized reception interview, an initial language positioning test, a 100-hour language training and a two-day civic training, and that the language requirements are only at level A1. While this level is the lowest in the mastery of a language, qualified as an introductory or discovery level, it should be noted that in 2021 this level is only reached by 60% of people – I refer to page 58. Is it really in this way that we can assimilate immigration? There is no language requirement. So, what knowledge of our customs and customs, our history and our culture will have of tomorrow's immigrants? This mechanism needs to be thoroughly reviewed to ensure better integration.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u73	Mr Jean-Noël Barrot, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor to give the Committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u74	Mrs Ménard, you are touched by this amendment, especially at the IRC in Mayotte, and I am not sure that Mr Kamardine is very happy with it. In addition, as in the previous amendment, you want to withdraw funds from OFII. I would remind you that he is involved in one of the policies to which you are very committed, that is to say, the return to the border of foreigners in an irregular situation, in particular through aid for voluntary return. In the previous amendment, you proposed to delete EUR 100 million of the large amount of funds from the Fund, but, given that a voluntary return would amount to around EUR 2500, it would be 40 000 people whose return to the border could not then have been financed. You have very eloquent explanatory statements, but the budgetary measures you are proposing do not correspond to your intentions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u75	These are call amendments!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u76	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u77	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u78	Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u79	[[Applause on the SOC benches and on a few benches of the LaREM group]] I come back to the CIR because Ms Ménard's comments called me as a language teacher who was asked to evaluate her students according to the criteria she mentioned – A1, B1, C1, etc. Of course the A1 level is quite low, but I brought many students who had this level all over Europe, some stayed there, learned to live there and got out very well. To use arguments that seem a little learned in referring to levels of language proficiency before such a problem is simply absurd, because what counts in such a situation is the opportunity given to these people to adapt after a certain period of time. It is well known that, when families arrive and children go to school, they quickly acquire the language of the host country and adopt its modes of thought. I think this discussion is really idle.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u80	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 281.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u81	[[Exclaims on the SOC benches]] I cannot help but respond to what has just been said. All we have to do is to see, Madam Member, the level of French for the parents of students who come from immigration. You're telling me that you've been a teacher, but then you have to know that it's the students themselves that you're penalising, because their families are not able to follow the homework. How a mother...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u82	There's the father too!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u83	...who doesn't speak French could she make sure that the homework is done and read the correspondence book? Stop admiring things and look at reality in the face! Amendment No 281 gives me the opportunity to refer once again to the AME, state medical aid – I know that this is going to jump again, but I am used to it. I will simply quote from the joint report of the General Inspectorate of Finance (IGF) and the IGAS of October 2019 on this subject: it states that "the AME responds primarily to an ethical and humanitarian principle, but also to an objective of public health and the relevance of the expenditure" – so far, you will agree. But the IGF and IGAS then feel "that its follow-up by the relevant ministries and Parliament's information on it can and must be improved", and that "despite a legal basis common to all the Member States of the European Union, the French system appears singular both in its logic of opening rights and in the definition of a basket of care close to those of the common law; These singularities, which stem from the specificities of the French healthcare system, refer to it as one of the most generous in the European Union. »
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u84	That's good.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u85	I continue: "...the data analysed by the mission allow to detect atypies, the most clear ones concern childbirth, chronic renal failure, cancers and blood diseases; They strongly reinforce the hypothesis of a migration for care, which is clearly not a marginal phenomenon (more than a quarter of foreigners in an irregular situation would cite care as one of the reasons for their migration). I could still quote tons of them, but I think Mr. President is in a bit of a hurry.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u86	I've let you express yourself very broadly, Mrs. Ménard. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u87	I'm listening carefully, Mrs. Ménard, but you're out of the question because OFII doesn't deal with AME. We had this debate during the review of the Health Mission's appropriations, and we must not confuse everything. Any policy must of course be evaluated and work has been done on the AME, I am thinking in particular of those of Véronique Louwagie, but, I repeat, it is not necessary to confuse everything and, in this case, to withdraw appropriations from the Office as you propose, would be counterproductive, including in order to combat irregular immigration as you refer to it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u88	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u89	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on several benches of the SOC group]] Madam Member, I am quite in line with the argument put forward by the Special Rapporteur from a technical point of view and then, from a more philosophical point of view, I know that you will not agree, but that is my personal opinion and that of the Government, let us remember that in France, when people are sick, they are treated, whether they are French or foreign, and that is to the credit of our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u90	Mr Mansour Kamardine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u91	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and SOC groups]] Listening to Ms. Ménard, I thought, "Maybe we didn't go to the same school. I will take the example of my colleague Ramlati Ali and also my case: our parents did not speak a single word of French, and she is a doctor and I am proud to be a lawyer.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u92	I call Mr Fabien Di Filippo to support Amendment No. 180.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u93	I find tonight's debate somewhat out of step with the situation in the country in recent years. We can no longer close our eyes to the fact that our reception capacities are saturated, that integration – some prefer to speak of assimilation – is no longer done at all in good conditions, that we create ghettos and strengthen them as and when we concentrate people more and more in the same places and in proportions never seen. The aim of the amendment that I am defending tonight is to re-allocate EUR 50 million from the "Home for First-Arriving Foreigners" action to the one on the fight against irregular immigration. In view of the situation I have just described, it is nevertheless a paradox to allocate twice as many resources to the reception of the first arrivals: there have never been as many unaccompanied minors and we have never been issued as many residence permits as in 2019! Let us put aside the crisis of the covid -19 which has certainly slowed down migratory flows, but it is only temporary. All this needs to be rebalanced. Today, 87% of people who are subject to an OQTF are not expelled. It can't last like this! On the one hand, we leave people in total illegality, without any prospect, in our country and, on the other hand, we disadvantage those who should be welcomed and enjoy true refugee status. I hear the speeches on the humanity of France, but those who really fall under the status of unaccompanied minors or refugees are a tiny minority of the foreign populations we are talking about.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u94	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u95	My colleague, our aim is to welcome those on our territory with dignity, to host them, to give them the minimum thanks to ADA, to investigate their asylum applications within tight deadlines, so that they can be given a positive or negative response. If it is positive, we want to improve their integration through the learning of French, the transmission of our republican values, work, housing, etc. This must be done all over the country. The law of 10 September 2018 has transformed the modalities of reception in all French regions – the special report analyses this evolution – in order to avoid concentrations of foreigners, as we have seen in the past, and to ensure that they can be welcomed throughout the territory, in our cities and in our villages. Simplistic solutions are not needed to solve an extremely complex subject. France has the capacity to act, but it does so in a European and international context. In connection with the negative decisions taken by OFPRA, I believe that we need to draw up a list of the regulations that we need to review at European Union level, given that it will be difficult to review the current Dublin regulation across Europe, because opinions are divided on it. All of this is at the heart of our problems: we must ensure that foreigners are no longer moved from one country to another, to the country of first entry, that everyone takes their part and that European solidarity is more on the agenda. We need to put in place a set of solutions and actions, each one in our place. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u96	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u97	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u98	Mr Fabien Di Filippo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u99	Madam Special Rapporteur, you are replying to me that flows need to be better distributed and that we need the means to do so when I tell you that it is absolutely necessary to reduce these flows. It's not simplistic on my part, but if you tell me "simplistic," I could answer you "angelism." You also say that we do not have all the elements in our hands because the problem is international and that visas are needed to send these people back to their country. Remember what I or my colleague Pierre-Henri Dumont already said, when Gérard Collomb was Minister of the Interior in 2018: to obtain visas, you must use the necessary means of retaliation. At the time, we were almost shouting at fascism on the benches of the majority...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u100	It was on our side!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u101	... and on the benches of a certain opposition on the other side of the Chamber also: let us give back to Caesar what belongs to Caesar! A few years later, a fine morning, the President of the Republic rises, he realizes that the OQTFs are almost no longer being executed, and he chooses to twist his arm to some countries to which France will not issue visas if they do not make efforts. What do you mean?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u102	He met Eric Zemmour!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u103	You were told that we need measures to force countries to take back their nationals – France always takes back its own. Now they must be asked to do so in return for official development assistance, visas or a number of other elements. It is time to initiate measures in a very pragmatic way. It is not a problem of humanity: refugee status is not called into question, but the fact is that a majority of foreigners who arrive on our soil remain illegal under the threat of an OQTF for four, eight or twelve years...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u104	Regularize them!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u105	[[Mr Pierre-Henri Dumont, draftsman, and Mr Mansour Kamardine applaud]] ...until we are gradually forced to regularize them. This is an illegality bonus, and all the aids you have detailed and that have been put in place to deal with this situation are pumps for illegal immigration.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u106	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 282.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u107	For 60% of French people, or even more according to the polls, massive immigration is a problem. These believe that France can no longer accommodate as it has done so far. Listening to you tonight, everything's fine. I fear for you that reality will catch up with you very quickly, as shown by your plans for 2022, since you anticipate a return to a situation that had preceded the health crisis. You anticipate that the number of removals will be 7200, taking into account a dynamic brought about by the full and complete effects of the implementation of the law of September 10, 2018, which allows the selected persons to seek back-to-retention assistance and the development of return preparedness devices. Yet 7731 OQTF were issued by prefectures to Algerian migrants, 3301 to Moroccan migrants, 3424 to Tunisian migrants. In other words, you plan to execute 7200 OQTF in 2022, whereas for these three countries alone there are 15229 – I'm not even talking about the other countries, I'm just talking about Algeria, Morocco and Tunisia.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u108	We noticed! It's weird: you're only talking about some countries!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u109	How do you want to get there? You drop your budget before you even start to decide on real firmness measures. Close the ban! I don't think there's anything left to say.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u110	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u111	Mrs Ménard proposed, in a misguided way, that the funds for the integration of refugees should be reduced. It deserves to be stopped. Refugees are men and women protected by international instruments, in particular by the Geneva Convention. Return to the subject as you do, when it is an international obligation and you were talking about humanity a moment ago...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u112	It's an appeal amendment!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u113	An amendment calling for Zemmour to vote!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u114	Well, you assume the way you propose to allocate the credits. That was clear from your first amendment. I strongly disagree with these proposals. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u115	Mrs Ramlati Ali has the floor to support Amendment No. 983.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u116	On the way to Mayotte last August, the Minister of the Interior, Gérald Darmanin, announced that he would want to abundate from 2 to 4 million euros the resources devoted by the State to the fight against illegal immigration. This is a scourge that considerably slows down the development of my territory. As such, the state has recently experimented with a system of aerial surveillance and tracing of wild boats, known as kwassas, which has proved to be more effective than land and sea surveillance. The system is effective but it is not sufficient, since these controls are carried out seven days a week, but only for six hours a day. In order to increase the duration of this control from six to fifteen hours a day, my amendment aims to transfer 800,000 euros from Action 12 Integration of first-time foreigners from the Integration and Access to French Nationality programme to Action 03 Combating irregular immigration from the Immigration and Asylum programme. If you feel that this request is being met, Madam Deputy Minister, I would be grateful if you would indicate the arrow to identify the allocation of funds dedicated to Mayotte, which do not appear to be included in this mission or in the Overseas Mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u117	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u118	Your amendment stems from the fact that you were able to observe in Mayotte during the visit of the Minister of the Interior, who announced certain measures on this occasion. As the committee has not examined it, I would like to rely on the wisdom of the House, pending the explanations of the minister responsible.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u119	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u120	Mrs Ali, we share your willingness to move forward, but your proposal seems to have already been met with funding from the 152 National Gendarmerie and 176 National Police programs. The aim is to ensure that the specific plan to strengthen the fight against illegal immigration in Mayotte is deployed. This deployment has led to an increase in the means of combating illegal immigration, both for the maritime and land aspects: mobilization of offshore means, renewal of the fleet of interceptors – two additional interceptors will still be delivered at the beginning of 2022 –, reinforcement of the personnel dedicated to the fight against illegal immigration on land with 400 additional police officers and gendarmes in Mayotte on these credits, plus the experiment of aerial surveillance to strengthen the detection capacity of the boats, in particular the kwassa-kwassa – an experiment that proved very successful with a rate of interceptions and half-tours close to 75%. This effort will be extended. As I said, new interceptors will be ordered on programs 152 and 176 to continue the renewal of the fleet. A contract will be entered into to sustain air surveillance: it is integrated into the budget estimates of the 303 Immigration and Asylum Program. The credits from Action 12 of the 104 Integration and Access to French Nationality program that you want to reduce contribute to the integration path of foreigners in addition to the Republican integration contract. These are mainly appropriations for vocational guidance. We agree with your objective, but we do not think it necessary to provide Action 03 with new resources from Programme 104. I therefore call for the amendment to be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u121	The draftsman has the floor to support Amendment No. 739.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u122	It aims to ensure that the majority can be brought into line with the comments of the Government and the President of the Republic. He said he wanted European asylum systems to converge. I believe that this is one of the ministry's priorities for the French Presidency of the European Union. As for the Government, when it presented the Asylum and Immigration Act in 2018, it had announced that it would end benchmarking between the different European countries. There was also the reference to "asylum shopping" by Mrs Loiseau, leader of the list En Marche in the European elections.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u123	He's swinging!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u124	My amendment aims at aligning the level of the French and German allocations. In Germany, the asylum-seeker's allowance is on average 82 euros lower than the French allowance. In order to offer the same benefits in countries with the same standard of living, such as France and Germany, I propose to allocate 82 euros per year multiplied by 12 and 115000, i.e. the number of asylum seekers, to the creation of new places in CRA, in order to facilitate the expulsion of foreigners who have been refused asylum or in an irregular situation. It is known that the presence in CRA of an irregular alien is the best guarantee of a return to his country. I repeat, you would thus comply with the words of the President of the Republic and the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u125	And Eric Zemmour!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u126	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u127	Mr Dumont, first of all, I believe that the figures you mention are not the right ones. On page 16 of OFII's 2020 Activity Report, it is thus stated that the ADA amount in France averaged €390 per household in 2020, which is significantly different from the figure you cited. I would add that, if we are to strive for homogeneity, it is simplistic to compare systems from one country to another. In Germany, an asylum-seeker can work, which is not the case in France for six months.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u128	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u129	Comparing what is not comparable makes no sense. It takes an overview to be consistent. I would remind you that the administrative detention centre does not constitute a compulsory passage for an alien before his or her return to his or her country of origin. Detention is possible when there is a refusal and an obstacle to return. This should in no way be automatic, and it does not seem justified to increase the number of places in CRA. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u130	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u131	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u132	Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u133	As a follow-up to what the Special Rapporteur has just explained, we would have to argue and check the data, if we want to explain that an additional 40 or 50 euros make a difference between France and Germany – which seems a bit petty to me – and can lead to benchmarking. I do not know why the President of the Republic would like to compare our two countries, but it must be remembered that in Germany the school system, whether in general or vocational education, has welcomed thousands of young foreigners by opening new classes, in particular to professionalize them, which our country has not been able to do. If we want to compare things, we have to take them as a whole. That we need to think about all this at European level, we agree, but this comparison on one point is frankly not interesting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u134	There's no worse blind...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u135	Mr Pierre-Henri Dumont, draftsman of the opinion, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u136	I understand that comparing on one point is not necessarily relevant, even simplistic, according to the Special Rapporteur. I will therefore allow myself to share with you another comparison, which will not necessarily be very flattering to the Government: it concerns the execution of removal measures.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u137	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u138	In 2020, France implemented 6% of the measures imposed, compared with 34% for Germany. Since 2020 is a bit special, let us take the figures for 2019: France has carried out 13% of the removal measures; This was 53% for Germany and 89% for the United Kingdom. You see it: there is a problem. Admittedly, reception in an administrative detention centre is not a compulsory passage – or even a guarantee of success – to ensure the return, whether assisted or not, of an irregular alien to his or her country of origin. But all the studies prove that CRAs make things easier. In 2018, it was even at the heart of the Government's argument, at the time of the "asylum and immigration" law, which intended to increase the number of places in CRA as well as the delays in detention to facilitate the return of foreigners. Having argued in April 2018 that it was necessary to increase the retention time, we cannot be told today that it is of no use.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u139	The draftsman has the floor to support Amendment No. 747.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u140	This amendment follows the same budgetary logic as I was able to set out on ADA, but this time I do not arrow the appropriations towards the CRAs but on the creation of new places in the reception centre for asylum seekers. The reason is very simple: today, several tens of thousands of asylum seekers are not housed in CADA. In the best case they stay in hotels, if not in emergency accommodation centres. Unfortunately, they also sometimes end up under bridges.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u141	It's still sore!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u142	It's a real subject. It is therefore necessary to increase the number of places in CADA and to remove asylum seekers from the claws of the sleep merchants and from all those who roam around them. The problem is that the budget package before us is quite pernicious: it makes it conditional on the opening of new places in CADA to the non-use of all the appropriations for ADA. I'm sorry to say that, but one can't go with the other. It is obviously necessary to make sure that the number of places in CADA is increased and, from there, the ADA's appropriations can be reduced; Let's take things in the right direction.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u143	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u144	The PLF provides for the creation of 3400 additional places in CADA and the financing of 800 places in temporary accommodation centres. In addition, if the provision for ADA 303 is not implemented, it will be used to finance an additional 4,900 accommodation spaces. We need seats because, as has been said on different benches, we are not currently able to accommodate everyone. We must continue and persevere. I also hope, Madam Minister, that the places that have been funded under the recovery plan will be maintained in order to receive asylum seekers with dignity. I express an unfavorable opinion in view of what is being committed to the PLF, while insisting on the need to continue the effort.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u145	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u146	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u147	Mr Fabien Di Filippo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u148	I still find this discussion singular. You're completely messing with your 2018 creed and the legacy of Gérard Collomb, who told us "humanity and firmness". I see only means that go in the direction of ever more welcome; on the other hand, with regard to firmness... The former Minister of the Interior himself acknowledged that the 2018 text was inoperative and useless and, once again, you prove to us that we cannot be "at the same time",...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u149	Di Filippo talking to himself!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u150	...we can't say everything and its opposite. The special rapporteur from the majority is clearly in favour of ever more welcome. But what do you do with the underground bounty? We have to stop. Could we have one symbol...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u151	Eric Zemmour!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u152	There's no need to take out the scarecrows that fix you and caricature situations. Do you find it normal that 87% of OQTFs are not executed and that more and more people live in our territory in total hiding?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u153	And in total insecurity!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u154	However, it is not a model of integration. Thinking that we're going to be able to welcome all those people who are underground, it's a chimera.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u155	Reactionary!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u156	The discussion is one-way, it's not right.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u157	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor to support Amendment No. 772.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u158	In its report published on 5 May 2020 on "The entry, stay and first reception of foreigners", the Court of Auditors denounced the under-budgeting of ADA. She questioned "the sincerity [of the Government] with regard to the asylum forecasts". Noting that ADA is not paid to Mayotte, the Court stressed the extreme precariousness in which asylum seekers and asylum-seekers live in the department. Furthermore, the Court of Auditors observes that the amount of the ADA increase for persons who cannot be accommodated, fixed at EUR 7.40 per person per day, "is more due to a concern for fairness with regard to the monthly amounts of personal aid for ordinary housing and a budgetary concern than to a calculation based on the price of a rental on the private market". We question the adequacy of the fixing of this amount with the "worthy standard of living" advocated by the European directive which, according to the Court, seems completely absent from the calculation of the amount. This requires any asylum-seeker who does not benefit from accommodation to be able to rent a dwelling with less than 230 euros per month reserved for that expenditure. This amount places asylum seekers in a very precarious situation. That is why we are proposing to abound a new programme to increase this allocation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u159	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u160	Thank you for emphasizing the importance of ADA budgeting. With Stella Dupont, as part of our reports to this assembly for a number of years, we have always seen chronic under-budgeting. For the first time, the appropriations allocated to ADA for year n+1 are higher than the consumption forecast for year n – in this case, 2021. As Stella Dupont pointed out in her introduction, a considerable effort is being made by the Government. This is an opportunity to stress this again, and we can only rejoice at it. For these reasons, the opinion will be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u161	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u162	Disadvantaged too.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u163	Mr Pierre-Henri Dumont, draftsman of the opinion, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u164	I would simply like to draw the Assembly's attention to the fact that the OFPRA services are considering approximately 12,000 asylum applications per month.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u165	No, 9713! It's written.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u166	That's what the director of OFPRA told me for the month of September. This corresponds to the destocking limit: at this level, the Agency is no longer able to lock its inventory of pending applications for several months. They're just as many people who stay on hold. For the coming year, I fear that the risk of under-budgeting – albeit much smaller than in previous years – will still be present. It is also for this reason that the fact that the creation of new places in CADA is conditional on the non-implementation of the total planned spending for ADA – even though several million refugees are waiting in Turkey, Lebanon or at the gates of Afghanistan – raises the question of the sincerity of the accounts.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u167	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u168	Once it is not customary, I will abound in the opinion of the draftsman: there is indeed a concern for under-budgeting, and even an extremely perverse side in saying that we can open up additional places in CADA if we do not fully implement the appropriations for ADA. He had already been denounced in the commission of laws, and he will be denounced again, whenever necessary. [[Mr Pierre-Henri Dumont, draftsman, rit]] We are discussing under-evaluation and under-budgeting, but we still have to see that the amounts involved are, for the beneficiaries, quite low: for those who do not receive accommodation, we are talking about an ADA increase of €7.40. Of course, for the draftsman Dumont it is already too much, since the Germans visibly give less. If he wants to become a German MP, that's his business. No problem, everyone is free to move in the Schengen area. I would like to point out, however, that it is not our understanding of the duty of hospitality and humanity, which requires that people in difficulty be given the vital minimum to live in our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u169	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor to support Amendment No. 774.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u170	As several colleagues have pointed out, according to the budget blue, the increase in accommodation in CADA and CAES is conditional on the planned expenditure for ADA, which is no longer problematic. With regard to emergency accommodation for asylum seekers (HUDA), funds are again stagnating – and even declining if inflation is taken into account – after having already fallen in 2021. HUDA-type accommodation is, however, crucial. It is intended for asylum seekers who are waiting for CADA treatment, those who are not intended to be admitted to CADA or those who leave it, for a maximum period of two months. Our amendment is therefore intended to abound a new programme in order to provide additional resources for the HUDA by taking the corresponding appropriations – according to the rules of the budget debate – from another item devoted to the fight against irregular immigration, which we believe is used solely for electoral reasons and to race the écalote with the far right.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u171	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u172	I have already often had the opportunity to mention this: we share the same view on the need to develop accommodation. This year, 800 additional places will be created. Indeed, there are nearly 5000 other places whose opening is not certain. I also regret this and hope that we will have a very thorough follow-up to the concrete creation of these places of accommodation. We are significantly improving the accommodation of asylum seekers, but much remains to be done. I would add that we must have a comprehensive policy. We have already talked about this: we also need, in addition to accommodation, accommodation for refugees. It is indeed all the ends of the chain that must be held, being also able to provide conventional housing for refugees who are allowed to stay in our territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u173	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u174	As the Special Rapporteur has said, efforts to increase accommodation capacity have been significant in recent years, and the resources mobilized are constantly increasing. I would remind you that the capacity of the emergency accommodation park for asylum seekers has increased by more than 30% since 2017 and that we are talking about 51796 seats allowed by December 31, 2021. Most of these places are funded on a multi-year basis. In addition, for 2021, the park of reception and situation assessment centres increased by an additional 1500 places; For the CADA, there are 3000 more places. This allows for more asylum-seekers to be accommodated during the proceedings and brings the total capacity of the asylum-seekers' accommodation to 103064 authorised places. Finally, I would like to point out that the PLF for 2022 also provides for the possibility of creating 1500 places in CAES and 3400 places in CADA, if the appropriations spent under ADA do not exceed the forecast.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u175	That's exactly what we're denouncing!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u176	As a result, the capacity of the park could increase significantly. On the other hand, I would like to point out that the Government's objective is to pursue a balanced policy with, on the one hand, the guarantee of the effectiveness of the right to asylum and to receive asylum seekers under dignified conditions – the funds are there for this – and, on the other hand, the maintenance of an effective fight against irregular immigration. We therefore believe that it is necessary to maintain the appropriations devoted to the fight against irregular immigration, since this policy helps to preserve respect for the decisions taken by France and the integrity of our asylum system, in particular by ensuring the removal of persons whose right to stay is not established. Finally, in response to the inquiry of the Special Rapporteur, I would point out that we have a follow-up with a dedicated task force...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u177	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u178	... and that we are at the disposal of Parliament for this follow-up, perhaps quarterly or monthly. Indeed, beyond forecasts and spending authorities, it is true that work is needed to monitor the opening of the new places, to see to whom they benefit and to explore ways to sustain them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u179	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u180	There's something I don't understand. We denounce the fact that additional seats would only be available if there was no execution of the ADA and you make it an argument. I want to get a little bit out of the numbers and put myself in the perspective of what the hunger strikers in Calais say. When you talk about 3000 additional accommodation places, it does not correspond at all to the needs, so at the end of the day there are people, human beings, who find themselves outside. You will then have political leaders who will rise up against the nuisances for the neighborhood: "People zone under bridges, in the street, sometimes they fly..." If you don't want any nuisance, if you want to avoid all this, host these people! Offer concrete solutions, and you will see that people will go to accommodation because any human being, when offered a roof, he goes there. You probably don't want to hear it, because there are numbers, because you have to create an atmosphere in the country, say that you are telling the story of the migration wave – which does not exist. You are in this race to the scallop: it will be without us, whether because of the numbers or because of the duty of humanity.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u181	Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u182	It's a delicate reality. We recognize that the Government has increased the funds but I come back to my example of Briançon: the accommodation centre has 65 places and receives about 160 people. Directors therefore wonder if they should put these people out. When you ask them the question, you know the answer: "If you would ever accept it better, it would be an air call. »
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u183	Oh, there!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u184	This expression is completely crazy, but that's how it is. So we're limited to 65 places, knowing that 160 or 180 people are there regularly. What are we doing with these people? The question is asked.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u185	Mr Pierre-Henri Dumont, draftsman of the opinion, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u186	One way to create new places is to remove the 15 per cent of people housed in these reception centres for asylum seekers who are no longer asylum seekers, either because they have been protected or because they have been rejected. These places, funded, are occupied by people who have nothing to do with them for one reason or another. Mr Bernalicis, you mentioned the situation in Calais. Let me, as a Member of Parliament for Calaisis, answer you.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u187	Go ahead, dear colleague!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u188	In Calais, the people present do not file asylum applications,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u189	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u190	... for a very simple reason, they have been in the hands of networks of smugglers since their departure from the Middle East or Africa and want, or are encouraged to want, to go to the United Kingdom.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u191	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u192	Consequently, they do not file asylum applications in France. OFII patrols circulate in the various camps and ask migrants to apply for asylum in France, but they do not.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u193	And they're not expulsable!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u194	So they're in a grey area. They are mainly from countries with high levels of protection, Afghanistan, Syria, Sudan and Eritrea, who are not expelled but are not seeking asylum. However, a reception centre cannot be set up in Calais.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u195	So we leave them on the street?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u196	Don't you remember what happened when we made available the Jules Ferry centre, a leisure centre for the kids of Calaisis? In the space of six months, we created the "jungle", Europe's largest slum, with prostitution networks and murders inside. Is that what you want?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u197	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor to support Amendment No. 773.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u198	There has been no job creation at the French Office for the Protection of Refugees and Stateless Persons for two years: In 2019, there had been a decrease of 0.9%; In 2020, the Government had made only one catch-up. While it authorized the recruitment of 150 additional staff, it finally acknowledged that this recruitment was not finalized until the end of the year. There were no new full-time equivalents for 2021, and the OFPRA employment ceiling was reduced by two positions. By 2022, OFPRA is expected to issue approximately 170,000 decisions. To achieve this level, the ministry relies on productivity per agent, which must return to the level set in the operator's objective and performance contract, i.e. between 404 and 412 decisions per year. An employee working an average of 216 days a year, that makes about two decisions a day, which, of course, takes the time to focus on the life of the person in distress... And the OFPRA employment ceiling remains unchanged! This is an unacceptable situation for the persons concerned, asylum seekers and also OFPRA agents. That is why we are proposing to abound with EUR 20 million a new programme which would guarantee additional resources for the Office.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u199	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u200	I sometimes agree with you, dear colleague, but in this case I do not understand how you can have such an analysis. Since the beginning of the legislature, we have increased the strength of OFPRA by more than 40%. We have created 200 additional posts. Whether it's the first semester of the year or the last semester of the previous year, it doesn't matter...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u201	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u202	... this is very significant: 30 million euros more have been allocated to OFPRA since the beginning of the legislature. We too are here to assess the decisions we make. For the past year, OFPRA has made more decisions than it has registered new applications. The number of pending cases has increased from 88,000 to 53,000. Evidence is therefore provided that the means are available and that the service provided by OFPRA is greatly improving.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u203	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u204	I would like to point out that OFPRA has benefited from a substantial strengthening of its human and financial resources, strengthening up to the objectives set by the law passed by parliamentarians in 2018 for the reduction of delays in the investigation and the quality of the processing of asylum applications lodged. In 2020, the Office's employment ceiling increased by 200 FTEs: it is huge, and many services would like to see such an increase. The ceiling thus reached 1005 FTEs, with 150 additional protection officer posts and 50 support mission posts. These people have been identified, recruited, trained, which takes some time; They are now operational to carry out the difficult and delicate work of the profession of protection officer of OFPRA, and I would like to salute them. The financial resources corresponding to these recruitments have been sustained and allocated to OFPRA under the Initial Finance Law (LFI) for 2021 and are renewed in the PLF for 2022 in order to allow these 200 FTEs to continue this integration and the work carried out by OFPRA. The government's objective is to pursue a balanced policy that allows the human and financial resources allocated to the Office to increase and maintain itself in order to enforce the law passed by parliamentarians. So it's a request for withdrawal.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u205	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u206	A workforce can only be considered as required, otherwise it is referred to as figures in the air. If the number of staff increased by 200 while the number of files decreased by 50000, you would have been told that you hired too much. But the situation is not at all that: the stock has actually been absorbed, but it was catching up. And when you hire in December to clean up a stock, it's not the same as if the staff had been assigned in January. In my former position, when I received new staff for year n, it was still 15 December. On the 1st of January I was then asked what I was complaining about since I had received ten people: agreed, but who had worked from 1 January to 15 December? An understaffed service of 10 people. These tricks, in the real world, translate into suffering at work, I say very clearly. At the same time, we have increased from 14,000 to 15,000 Border Police (BFP) officers. Each of its priorities: you preferred to hire a thousand additional FAP officers while you were assigning 200 to OFPRA to listen to the life stories of people who live uprooted from their home country and deal with this in half a day. It's file processing, but it's not human treatment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u207	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor to support Amendment No. 967.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u208	By this amendment we wish to denounce, as on the mission of the General and Territorial Administration of the State, the establishment of an information system to dematerialize the procedures concerning foreigners, whose appropriations we want to use to devote them to the recruitment of personnel in prefectures and sub-prefectures. It is explained in the budget for 2022 that the ANEF programme – Digital administration for foreigners in France – aims to "dematerialize from end to end foreign trade processes: asylum, immigration and access to nationality". In addition to the very start-up language used, we denounce the fact that this programme has cost more than 102 million euros in payment appropriations since its launch, or 93.9% more than expected. All of this is intended solely to make savings at the expense of the rights of users who deserve a human reception in prefecture: "The ANEF programme will make it possible to achieve, from 2023 onwards, operating savings estimated on average at 15 million per year. These savings will result from the reduction of the allowances for asylum seekers, the acceleration of the processing of summonses by OFPRA, the abolition of receipts and provisional documents issued during the procedure for applying for residence permits and the end of the use of electronic management. In short, whether they are foreigners or agents, faced with a great deal of suffering and the inability to respond to demands, all this is organized to the detriment of humanity and fundamental rights.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u209	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u210	In our last report, Jean-Noël Barrot and I analysed the means of the prefectures. We have estimated that approximately 250 additional staff are required in offices dealing with the situation of foreigners in France. We are therefore particularly interested in the subject, but it is not within the framework of this mission that it should be addressed; It is within the framework of the State Territorial Administration mission, discussed just before it and in which we voted an amendment proposed by the Special Rapporteur aiming to allocate EUR 15 million to these State services in the prefecture as well as to the Resource and Title Centres of Expertise (CERT). I therefore believe that the amendment is partly satisfactory and I propose that you withdraw it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u211	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u212	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u213	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u214	Dematerialization, as committed in many prefectures, I can testify for my department of the Hauts-de-Seine. The Hauts-de-Seine prefecture is almost always a pilot service for measures related to foreigners. The dematerialization started, we were promised that after a few months, once the files were handled delayed by the covid, everything would be in order and the processing times would be shortened. However, I note an increase in the duration of the replies, not only for the first deposit but also for the renewal of residence permits, sometimes for ten-year permits. People are waiting for their new title seven, eight months. They remain without documents during this time, with just a small paper that is worth nothing, for no state service, which means that they are not entitled to training, to social benefits or even to employment, because some even lose their jobs! [[Mr Bernalicis applauds]] With these delays, the prefecture creates new undocumented people and increases poverty. When you are asked for additional resources, it is a question of employing agents who will receive people in the prefecture. With the dematerialization, it is most often the elected representatives or associations who are responsible for transmitting the files and, at the time the agent seizes them to deal with them but finds that a document is missing, the applicant has lost four months; Then we're back for three months, again... We have to stop this!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u215	I call Mr Pierre-Henri Dumont, draftsman of the opinion, to support Amendment No 909.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u216	Madam Minister, you are well aware that in Calais, a private company carries out a work that falls within the competence of the Regalian power, by controlling the presence of migrants in trucks on their way to Great Britain. So she does the work of the state. This costs the port's concessionaires €8 million, namely the Strait Ports Operating Company (SEPD). These EUR 8 million obviously affect the result. In a post-Brexit and post-covid context, where the flow of Channel crossings has decreased, there is a danger for wages and employment. The best proof is that the Eurotunnel group had to make a starting plan of 200 employees. My request is therefore very simple: I ask that the State take over the 8 million euros, or at least reimburse the company operating the ports of the Strait, in order to assume its burden. If this is not possible, I would ask the State to release the Brexit fund which has been set up by the European Commission to deal with Brexit's affronts, so that the port employees and those responsible are paid for the work they do not for themselves but for the State.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u217	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u218	With Brexit, the external borders of the European Union have moved. It hasn't escaped anyone, and not you, Mr. Dumont. You are asking the relevant question of the United Kingdom's participation in the financial management of these controls. The contributions have just been noted. By July 2021, we had all been aware of a Franco-British declaration to stop a payment of almost 63 million euros in 2021-2022. According to the information provided to us by the Directorate-General for Foreigners in France (DGEF), this payment was somewhat delayed but would have been made recently. Through your amendment, you ask the state to fund a port operating company. It seems to me that it is to the United Kingdom that we should turn instead of the French State. That is why the committee is voting against your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u219	On the appropriations of the Immigration, Asylum and Integration mission, I am seized by the group La République en marche of a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. What is the Government's opinion on Amendment No. 909?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u220	I would point out that the definitive exit of the United Kingdom from the European Union has no bearing on migration controls at that border, since the United Kingdom has never been part of the Convention implementing the Schengen Agreement of 19 June 1990. Consequently, the conditions for the implementation of the Touquet Agreement of 4 February 2003 govern the organisation of migration controls.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u221	Of course, since you didn't denounce him!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u222	These conditions remain unchanged, and Brexit has no consequences on this point. The Touquet Treaty does not impose any migration controls on transport infrastructure managers within the meaning of the Schengen Borders Code. These controls are the sole responsibility of the public authorities. The EUR 8 million costed by the port operator corresponds to the annual cost of security checks against intrusion into means of transport, which are not imposed by the Schengen border code or by the Treaty of Touquet but fall under the international code for the security of ships and port facilities. The search for a diplomatic solution with the United Kingdom remains the preferred route by the Government for a better distribution of the cost of combating irregular immigration across the English Channel, supported by both the public authorities and certain French private actors, of which the Port of Calais company is part. That is what the Minister of the Interior, Mr.Gérald Darmanin, is doing in the close, nourished and regular exchanges he has with his overseas counterpart. The Government therefore expresses an unfavorable opinion on this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u223	Mr Pierre-Henri Dumont, draftsman of the opinion, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u224	What you're saying is very interesting. Does this mean that you feel that the port of Calais does not have to carry out these checks? You say that this has nothing to do with Brexit, because it is true that the controls had already taken place before. But if it's only a matter of trade, let's stop the controls! Let us explain to the operator, SEPD, that the State assumes that it does not control, because it is not included in the various treaties, and that it can therefore save and recover its EUR 8 million. The purpose of the controls is to prevent migrants from being inside the cargoes in the trucks. They are necessary only because this Government does not manage the situation of Calaisis, nor did the majority of the previous quinquennium, which had allowed the jungle to settle. We must stop making fun of the world and pretending that the EUR 8 million paid by the port operator has nothing to do with the migration situation in the territory. This obviously has everything to see! But if you tell them, as you have just done, that there is no need to do the checks, they will be passed on to them; They'll be very happy to know!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u225	I put to the vote the appropriations of the Immigration, Asylum and Integration mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u226	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 54 Number of votes cast 52 Absolute majority 27 For adoption 40 Against 12
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u227	Amendment No 657 by Mr Pierre-Henri Dumont is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u228	I call Mr Kamardine to support Amendment No. 977.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u229	I listened with great interest to the debates and understood that we definitely did not have the same approach. So, for you, you must continue to bring people, not to drive people back to the border; You don't have a problem with immigration. For us, immigration poses many problems; We have said that in very precise terms. I am going to go in your direction: I propose that we issue specific residence permits that would allow the people who are in Mayotte to come here, and we would see how many of our colleagues agree to welcome them. And Mayotte can finally breathe! In the meantime, I hope that the national representation will be better informed of the situation in Mayotte. It is the meaning of this amendment that calls for a report on the development of budgetary expenditure, in particular under Action 03 Combating irregular immigration, to which Mayotte is confronted.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u230	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u231	Personally, I express an unfavorable opinion, even though I am very committed to the evaluation, and in particular to the evaluation of the measures taken at Mayotte. Indeed, you are proposing that the Government submit a report to Parliament by 1 April 2022, which means that this report will only be able to assess the effect of the measures taken in January, February, and perhaps the first 15 days of March. The timetable does not seem to me to be appropriate. I think we need a full year to have an evaluation worthy of that name. It is therefore at the time of budgetary implementation that this can be analysed together, if you wish, because I will follow this closely as Special Rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u232	I call Mr Pierre-Henri Dumont, draftsman of the opinion, to support Amendment No. 661.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u233	This amendment aims to make the data on state medical aid in Mayotte more sincere. You are aware that Mayotte Hospital is one of the two hospitals in France where fee-for-service does not exist. As a result, we cannot tell how many people benefit from the AME in Mayotte, nor even the cost to the Mamoudzou hospital. This is problematic because the definition of the number of foreigners in an irregular situation in France is largely based on the number of persons benefiting from the AME, although it is known that a large part of them do not use the AME for fear of being identified by the various State departments. We therefore request a report on the number of persons who receive such care when they are in an irregular situation in order to make more sincere the data which make it possible to know the number of foreigners in an irregular situation in the territory of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u234	We could also set up the prefecture at the hospital!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u235	We know that in Mayotte there are, at the bottom of the line, 100,000 people in an irregular situation – I am speaking under the control of MP Mansour Kamardine, a member of the group The Republicans. When an estimated one third of foreigners in an irregular situation are not included in the AME's calculations, the question of sincerity arises.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u236	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u237	My colleague, the information you would like to know is contained in the report published in June 2021 by our colleague Véronique Louwagie on the cost of care for foreigners in an irregular situation. It estimated this cost at €67 million in 2019. This calculation was based on the elements transmitted by the Mayotte hospital centre. I therefore believe that your amendment is satisfactory and I propose that you withdraw it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u238	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u239	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u240	Mr Mansour Kamardine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u241	First of all, I would like to thank Mr Dumont for the quality of his presentation, which says things as clearly as possible, and in any case better than I can do. The cost of real immigration to Mayotte is estimated at about 200 million euros – a figure that the prefect himself acknowledges – when the real population exceeds 400,000 people. In Mayotte it is necessary to distinguish between the legal population of 289000 and the actual population of more than 400,000 people. This figure is known to all. It is on these 400,000 or more people that the AME must be calculated. Why do you refuse to make this transparent for national representation? When we vote on appropriations, we need to know very precisely what it costs; It is a matter of budgetary sincerity. Otherwise, your ceiling will explode, as this EUR 200 million represents 20% of the budget allocated to the AME. We therefore support this request for a report in order to allow the transparency that we owe to national representation and to French opinion as a whole.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u242	We have completed the review of the Immigration, Asylum and Integration Mission. The continuation of the budget discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1035.u243	Next meeting, tomorrow, at 9 a.m.: Continuation of the second part of the finance bill for 2022: review of the appropriations of the Mission Relations with local and regional authorities. The meeting is adjourned.
