ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u1	Pursuant to articles 29 and 30 of the Constitution, I declare open the special session convened by decree of the President of the Republic of 1 September 2021.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, if I am happy to find you calm and relaxed, after this summer break, it was with great emotion that we learned yesterday of the death of Jean-Paul Belmondo. We will never forget the talent, the brio and the legendary humour of this monument of French cinema and theatre, well known to all our compatriots.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u3	The next item is the question to the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u4	Mr Gérard Leseul has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u5	Mr President, our democracy is based in particular on the lives of parliamentary groups. It is therefore the custom not to sit on parliamentary days, which call for a logistical organization upstream. Unfortunately, this was not possible this year, because of the calendar,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u6	Yes, we're parliamentarians first!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u7	[[MM. Stéphane Peu and André Chassaigne applaud]] ...which explains the absence of my colleagues. Mr Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs, the images are still in all the minds, the repatriations from Afghanistan started just a month ago have had to take place in an emergency and under particularly painful conditions. The speed with which the Afghan government fell highlighted an ill-prepared withdrawal. What has happened since the last statements of the President of the Republic? Have the negotiations referred to evolved or have we reached a point of no return? From a diplomatic point of view, we question the autonomy of the French position. We cannot expect everything from the United States, which has particularly badly prepared their withdrawal and privileged their nationals. The aim must therefore be to ensure diplomatic continuity on the spot in order to assist populations at risk. This brings me to women's rights. If the Taliban's way of communicating has evolved, it is not their deadly ideology. They will continue to defend a retrograde vision of women, depriving them of their rights. Testimonies come to us, which show a very harsh reality, as you know. Protests are violently repressed; Afghan girls are forced to marry; soon they will no longer be able to go to school and will no longer have the right to work. On August 16, Emmanuel Macron declared that Afghan women "have the right to live in freedom and dignity". Will we organise coordination at European level, allowing for a worthy reception of all those who have worked with our countries, and protection for young Afghan women?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u8	The next speaker is the Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u9	[[Applause on all benches]] You are right to point out the extremely difficult conditions in which the French teams – that is, the diplomats, police and military present at both Kabul airport and Abu Dhabi and in the crisis centre of the Quai d'Orsay – worked day and night to ensure that these evacuations took place, allowing us to evacuate 2,800 people in ten days. I would like to pay tribute to them and to pay tribute to their composure and courage. Our Ambassador to Afghanistan will shortly be received in camera by the Committee on Foreign Affairs. If we have the opportunity to talk at length about the substance, let us recall that the entire international community – both the United Nations Security Council, by its Resolution 2593, and the European Foreign Ministers, meeting in Kranj on Friday and Saturday on this subject, or the G7 – agree on five demands with regard to the de facto power, the power of force, in Kabul. First, it must allow free movement without hindrance; Second, to renounce all ties with any terrorist organization; Third, to ensure that human rights, in particular the rights of women and girls, including in the field of education, are respected; Fourthly, to make humanitarian aid accessible; fifthly, to establish a transitional government. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] As the international community has agreed on these five principles, it is now important for de facto power in Kabul to announce acts consistent with its commitments. At the moment, we only have words, including those of this morning; For now, they're worthless.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u10	Mr Didier Martin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u11	I would like to associate Anne Genetet, Vice-President of the France Afghanistan Friendship Group, and my colleagues in the La République en marche group, who are members of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and, more broadly, those who work in the repatriation crisis unit, which is still operational. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Mr. Philippe Vigier also applauds]] Mr Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs, on 16 August last, the President of the Republic decided to launch Operation Apagan to repatriate our nationals from Afghanistan. This operation, carried out in close cooperation with your Ministry, the Ministry of the Armed Forces and the Ministry of the Interior, established an air bridge between Kabul International Airport, the French Air Force Base in the United Arab Emirates and Charles de Gaulle Airport in Paris. In two weeks, nearly 3,000 people were evacuated, including 143 French. I welcome the efforts of the military, gendarmes and staff of the various ministries who have worked tirelessly, under extremely dangerous conditions, in an emergency and disorganization, to allow these evacuations. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I would also like to pay tribute to the thousands of French soldiers deployed in Afghanistan between 2001 and 2014, particularly the ninety who lost their lives there and the seven hundred who were injured there. Through their commitment and sacrifice, they fought against international terrorism. On 30 August, the United Nations Security Council adopted a resolution. Today, a question arises: how can dialogue be established with the de facto authority in Kabul to ensure that these requirements are met?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u12	The next speaker is the Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u13	Thank you for highlighting the quality of Operation Apagan, which we conducted with the Minister of the Armed Forces and which enabled the results that I indicated earlier. We still need to protect hundreds of Afghans and Afghans, as well as some French nationals who could not be exfiled, because of the rapid departure of American forces and the aftermath of the attacks. I would also like to remind the national representative that we must not deceive ourselves: the Daesh risk is still present in Kabul. It is now important that UN Security Council Resolution 2593, to which we have contributed a great deal, be implemented, enabling security and safety. Security must be technical – the airport must operate – and environmental – the people we want to exfil from Afghanistan who have requested it must do so safely. We are currently working on this, in good coordination with our European partners, but also in relation to the United States of America. An interlocutor was appointed by the de facto authorities in Kabul, Qatar,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u14	It's not a reference!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u15	... which is likely to provide technical management of the airport. We need to work with this one, to allow the evacuation of our nationals and Afghan women...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u16	We could talk about women's rights in Qatar...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u17	...and Afghans who want to get out of the territory. You have to work well with those who will allow it! That's what we do.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u18	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u19	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] I will go to Qatar myself in some time, to ensure the safety and security of people who wish to return to France or another of the European countries, since we coordinate with them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u20	Mrs Justine Benin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u21	I would like to associate my colleague Max Mathiasin with my question. [[Applause on all benches]] Mr Minister for Solidarity and Health, dozens of deaths every week, a health system under maximum pressure: this is the situation in Guadeloupe. Caregivers work day and night to care for the sick and save lives; I want to pay tribute to him and to pay tribute to him and to all the reinforcements from Hexagon. In these serious situations, fears, concerns and legitimate anger are expressed. Important braking measures have been introduced in Guadeloupe, which force the daily lives of the population, seriously affect small businesses and economic actors and disrupt our most entrenched habits and practices; The return to school has thus been staggered. Earlier, we will be debating the bill authorizing the extension of the state of health emergency in the overseas territories until November 15. However, we must anticipate the exit from the state of emergency today. As you know, ultramarine territories have much lower vaccination rates than Hexagon, due to misinformation, lack of pedagogy and manipulation on social networks. This set of factors leads to the division, fear, fracturing of our society and has wasted us valuable time in the face of the spread of the virus. We cannot add division to the social divides that persist. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] The overseas minister, Sébastien Lecornu, himself declared in an interview with Libération on 1 August that he was ready to present adaptations of the health pass to the local realities of the overseas countries. Of course, we must listen to the words of the scientific experts, who say that we will come out of the health crisis through the vaccine; We also need to hear the testimony. However, in concrete terms, how does the Government plan to adapt the deployment of the health pass in the overseas territories, particularly in Guadeloupe? What differentiation measures do you propose?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u22	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u23	First of all, Mrs Benin – I obviously associate your colleague Mr Mathiasin with my answer – thank you. You are holding a speech committed to vaccination in the ultramarine territories; That counts. Unfortunately, this is not the case for the entire political class in the overseas regions, despite the catastrophic health situation that has prevailed for several weeks. I thank you, therefore, for your courage and your mobilization. With regard to the ultramarine epidemic situation, following the introduction of increasingly difficult and binding measures, up to full containment, particularly in Guadeloupe, from mid-July onwards, the epidemic incidence is decreasing, even though it remains high. [[Mrs Caroline Fiat protested]] As for the health and hospital pressure, it is still very important. Sébastien Lecornu visited Guadeloupe, as well as Martinique where I was with him this summer. We have seen, with our own eyes, what "epidemic pressure" meant in ultramarine territories where vaccination is far too low: between 25% and only 30% of the total population received at least one dose, with such a contagious and dangerous delta variant. [[Applause on many benches]] I would like to emphasize what has been done: the sending of material to the ultramarine territories and French Polynesia; Most importantly, the deployment of nearly 2,000 caregivers in one month, who left the metropolis by plane to help their colleagues in the ultramarine territories. Two thousand! This is an absolutely unprecedented effort. At the time I'm talking to you, 800 of them are still present in these territories, away from their families for a few weeks, to help save lives: it counts! In the same way, we had never carried out sanitary evacuations across the oceans, in these proportions: a hundred have been carried out since the beginning of the fourth wave and this will continue. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] To answer you very simply on the sanitary pass, we decided not to apply it in ultramarine territories in a state of health emergency, for reasons that everyone can understand. I confirm to you what the Minister for Overseas Affairs, Sébastien Lecornu, rightly said: when we leave the state of emergency, at the time of the deconfinition, we will adapt, on a case-by-case basis, territory by territory, the introduction of a health pass that will apply, but under conditions different from those of the metropolis.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u24	Mr Guy Teissier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u25	My question is for the Prime Minister. After the murderous summer in Marseilles, the kalashnikov melody continues. For yesterday's only day, a drug dealer ripped off from the police, a young man shot and shots fired in the middle of Canebière. We are witnessing, powerless, an uncontrollable outbreak of violence linked to the territorial wars being waged by drug resale networks. The inhabitants are terrified by these thugs who control their neighbourhood. The rule of law is only a distant memory in our city. Nothing stops these traffickers without faith or law. But what is the Government doing? You will refuse to admit it, but some of Marseilles' territories have become invivable and inaccessible. What I describe is not fiction, it is the painful daily life of thousands of Marseillais who live in these cities. The observation is brutal, terrifying: violence in the raw state. A daily away from the postcard that the President of the Republic was able to see during his visit to the city of Bassens, which had been emptied and cleaned up the morning. Four years and three months after his election, the President seems to discover the measure of a problem that has not yet occurred and on which many have preferred to close their eyes, thus buying social peace in those neighbourhoods where we have failed to integrate foreign populations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u26	It's you who should have bought it, social peace!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u27	It is regrettable that these promises come so late. I have not forgotten those of Jean-Marc Ayrault and Manuel Valls. Today, it is necessary to avoid downgrading, to strike quickly and hard, to reform the 1945 law, to ensure the proper application of penalties, to expel foreign delinquents, to suspend the rightful share of juvenile delinquents and to create a police force dedicated to the fight against drug traffickers. It is because most of the sanctions imposed by judges are not enforced that offenders who feel in complete impunity are being confronted. France must put the sanction at the heart of the criminal justice process.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u28	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u29	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Mr Prime Minister, in addition to the announcement of the President, what does your Government intend to do to eradicate this evil that spreads terror and gnaws the suburbs for too long?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u30	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u31	The next speaker is the Minister for the Interior.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u32	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] I heard you. To go to your municipality a whole week every six weeks, I share some of these findings. Share with me the one that Emmanuel Macron is not responsible for the Marseille situation that we have known for decades. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups. – Protests on the benches of the LR group]] [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Even though I do not have the honour of being elected from a Marseille riding, I do not make the same observation as you concerning the extremely courageous, repeated and continuous action, throughout Marseilles, of mobile policemen and gendarmes, who are doing a very important job against drug traffickers. There is no non-right zone in Marseille or elsewhere, even though it is true that we have had 164 points of deal as our legacy, an almost total absence of video protection cameras installed by the municipality. In all the northern parts of Marseilles, there are almost none, since they are concentrated in the city centre – very important. But the problems are in the northern neighbourhoods: urban planning problems, transport problems, security problems, problems of concentration of poverty, problems of school, problems of public service. Three hundred police officers were missing in Marseilles. We brought them here: 100 have already arrived...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u33	They're the same people running around.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u34	[[Vif applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups. – Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] ... and 200 were announced by the President of the Republic. Video surveillance cameras were missing: we announced 10 million euros to equip the entire city of Marseille. Some 40 magistrates were missing: they were announced by the keeper of the seals. There was a lack of political will and frankly, for the sake of Marseilles, you could thank the President of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u35	Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u36	[[Applause on a few benches in the LT group]] Tomorrow will begin the trial of the attacks of 13 November 2015. On behalf of the Liberties and Territories Group, we have a thought for the victims of these attacks, for their families, for their loved ones and more personally for Djo, Milan and Shana in memory of Armelle. My question is for the Minister of Ecological Transition. This summer was the summer of major natural disasters, exacerbated by climate change. Another crisis, less visible, must be of equal concern to us: the continued erosion of biodiversity. In the past 50 years, global vertebrate populations have declined by an average of 68 per cent. One of the major causes of biodiversity collapse is plastic pollution. The Mediterranean Sea is 1% of salt water and 7% of plastic pollution; a sea that renews very slowly every 90 years; a sea that is dying and will disappear in twenty years if nothing is decided. The cradle of humanity, the Mediterranean cradle, will be lost. Since Friday, Marseille, symbol of the Mediterranean, hosts the World Congress of Nature. Under the aegis of IUCN (International Union for Conservation of Nature), it should help to anchor biodiversity as a fundamental issue in the collective spirit; It must allow France to carry its environmental ambition higher. [[Mr. Jean-Luc Mélenchon applauds]] [[Applause on the benches of the LT group and on some benches of the LaREM and IUD-I groups]] Minister, you boarded the 7th Continent Expedition boat on Friday. Experts have told you, unanimously, that the challenge is to get out of our plastic addiction: it is everywhere in our hyperconsumption society. It is now everywhere in the food chain, especially microplastics, starting with textiles. On this World Day of Nature, Minister, are you ready to announce strong measures such as the end of oil-based plastic or the creation of an international plastic agency, like the IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) for climate change or IUCN for biodiversity? Thank you. There's an emergency, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u37	The Minister for Environmental Transition has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u38	You're right, there's an urgent need to act. In Marseille, which is today and until September 11th, the world capital of biodiversity, plastic is one of the topics looked at very closely. You're right, it's one of the major causes of biodiversity erosion. I would like to recall that while we are aware of the impact of climate on our lives and of the need to act against and adapt to global warming, the issue of biodiversity loss is also serious and requires such proactive measures. As for the Mediterranean Sea, you are right: it is a form of hotspot, everything goes there faster. Warming is faster and plastic pollution already has terrible consequences. There is no point in attacking plastic once it is in the sea: it breaks down into small particles and cannot be recovered. This was underlined last week, when we embarked on this beautiful 7th Continent Expedition sailing boat: we must take care of the plastic before. To do this, we need to work on ecodesign, we need to produce less, we need to ensure that it is better recycled and replaced by other uses. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] To this end, measures have already been taken: the so-called AGEC (anti-spill and circular economy) law, which provides for prohibitions of single-use plastic before 2040, with steps; Some have already been implemented, including the ban on plastic straws. At European level, the French Presidency of the European Union must be an opportunity to bring everyone together, particularly on eco-design issues. Finally, we are campaigning for an international plastic treaty, which could be discussed from next year. With regard to the Mediterranean, the President of the Republic announced the "Exemplary Mediterranean" plan, which will allow no plastic to be discarded at sea by 2030. Here are some elements of this long list.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u39	There's not a lot of action!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u40	Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u41	Minister of National Education, a few days before the beginning of the school year, on a television show, you gave your opinion on an umpteenth bill of right-wing and centre officials, who maintain the old reactionary myth that the school starter allowance (ARS) would eventually be too generous, too often wasted by unconscious parents who would turn it away for futile purchases and that more control would be needed. Sharing the fantasies of these elected officials, you said, I quote: "We know well, if we look at things in the face, that sometimes there are purchases of larger flat screens in September than at other times. » [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] [[Same movements]] [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] No, Mr Blanquer, it is not acceptable – moreover, when you are a minister of national education – to make such fake news. You are customary, for example last July, about the covid or other subjects on which you have had risky comments. Here, the seriousness of your false information lies in the fact that it is contemptuous and hurtful to our most modest fellow citizens. The contempt of the poor is enough! You never have the same requirement when it comes to billions of euros of public money distributed to the big companies of the CAC40 without condition of hiring or social consideration. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] No, Mr. Blanquer, it is not known that flat screens buy more in September: it is pure invention, no data attests to it. On the other hand, according to specialized institutes, it is even known that the months of August and September are the worst months of sale of flat screens and that there is no increase in sales of high-tech products at this time. How can we allow the rumor that 370 euros allocated to the most modest families, for a child and for a whole year, would be almost too much as the sum would be diverted by bad parents? Mr Blanquer, since your statements, the Minister of Solidarity and the Prime Minister have publicly set you up – and so much the better. In front of the national representation, do you withdraw your lies? I give you the opportunity to apologize to the 3 million families you have hurt by your words.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u42	The next speaker is the Minister for National Education, Youth and Sport.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u43	I'm very happy to find you in good shape, Mr. Corbière. You give me the opportunity to come back to an important topic for children: the starting point of reasoning must always be whether public money is used for children.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u44	The Prime Minister agrees.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u45	When I answered this question – it was a question, it was not a subject that I especially wanted to put on the table – it concerned, you rightly recalled, a bill by Member Perrine Goulet. This is an interesting proposition – that's what I said – that deserves to be looked at.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u46	We have to stop!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u47	We need to know what we are talking about: on this subject, investigations are either very old or rather weak. This would require further instructions in the future. I am based on the discussions that I have very often in the field with teachers in schools in particular, or with school principals. As the President of the Republic recalled when we were together in Marseilles, everyone knows that there are obviously different uses from one family to another.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u48	Oh!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u49	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Of course! Not everyone goes into the same department making the same purchases: there is a freedom of purchase. We can agree with that; It can also be said that different initiatives can be interesting. The mayor of Clichy-sous-Bois, for example, who buys equipment and distributes it to families, does useful work in my opinion. When we create the sports pass, we don't give 50 euros, we give a cheque of 50 euros usable in a sports club. When President Lula in Brazil conditions certain allowances to the fact that they go to mothers so that the children go to school, you find that progressive. Well, we can have such progressive ideas, not to replace the allowance, but possibly to supplement it. [[Protests on the benches of the FI group]] So either we pay for words like you like to do so often... [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups. – Mr. Alexis Corbière mimes a person rowing]] Poor families do not see this at all as contempt, I have received dozens of testimonies from people who, on the contrary, see very well what we are talking about, especially the potential – if we analyse things – in the service of children. On this subject as on others, you will always see my compass: these are the rights of the child. You, your compass, it's polemic!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u50	Mr Julien Dive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u51	I would like to associate my colleague Emmanuel Maquet with my question. Prime Minister, more than 9 million Allies shed their blood a century ago during the first global conflict. Of these, 62,000 Australians. For many, they were not 20 years old; Fathers, sons, who never saw their homeland again, for our freedom. The price of this sacrifice is respect: respect for their memory, to which thousands of French, Australians and British pay tribute every year during the ANZAC Day to the Australian memorial of Villers-Bretonneux in the Somme. Might as well tell you this site is sacred. But it has been more than six years since, on the same site, an umpteenth project was launched to install wind turbines.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u52	Again!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u53	In 2017, however, the prefecture refused to allow this project, considering that it harmed the memorial and memory of the victims. It was also the position defended by the inhabitants, elected representatives and associations. The administrative court had confirmed the prefecture's position – before the court of appeal overturned it. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] A wind of anger now blows on this territory, as in the entire Hauts-de-Frances, as our region is disfigured, sacrificed on the altar of postures. Nearly a third of the wind turbines in our country are concentrated in our home. Every day it is a new project that mounts without consultation, and these anarchic settlements no longer even respect the quality of life or the memory of the territories. On such a case, only the state can still move the lines. However, the Ministry of Ecological Transition has indicated that it will not avail itself of cassation. Isn't it the President of the Republic who himself pleaded for "pragmatism on a case-by-case basis" where wind projects "create too much tension", where they "denature the landscape"? Paradoxically, this advice does not seem to have been understood within your government. Prime Minister, do you intend to intervene to put an end to this project? Or do you consider that the history and respect of memorial sites such as Villers-Bretonneux do not deserve your attention? [[Vif applause on the benches of the LR group]] The ecological transition, yes; No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u54	The Minister for Environmental Transition has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u55	You're talking about "positions" about renewable energy; It seems to me that everyone should in this case sweep in front of his door! [[Long protests on the benches of the LR group]] While many were gratifying, we set ourselves in order to make the development in our territory of renewable energies, of all renewable energies, compatible with respect for the territories. We want to find the best ways to do it. Electricity demand will increase by 20% by 2035. Yes, we will need to develop renewable energies! On this issue of wind turbines, I have asked all prefects to draw up, taking into account different criteria, a map to know where the settlements are possible, and where they are not. As far as the Villers-Bretonneux site is concerned, I know him perfectly well, as you know, for having attended the ANZAC Day on numerous occasions, particularly at the point-of-day ceremony, a very moving ceremony which takes place every year and which is visited by many Australians and New Zealanders. I have expressed my reservations about the project you are referring to, in particular because these sensitivities must be avoided. [[Protests on the benches of the LR group]] However, the case law considers that the quality of the place of memory alone cannot justify a ban on the establishment of wind turbines. The preservation of memory must coexist with economic activities. Let's think about it. The whole of our territory is a place of memory, and we must find the best solutions together. Adopting postures, putting people against each other, it is not in my opinion a good way of doing politics: we must move forward together.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u56	Mr Saïd Ahamada has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u57	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Protests on the benches of the LR group]] Prime Minister, the President of the Republic – no one knows – was in Marseilles last week, for a three-day visit that can be described as historical, whatever one thinks of the President of the Republic and his announcements. No one is unaware of the ills that afflict Marseille either: ghettoisation, which affects half of the city, problems of public transport, the state of schools... Many articles have described the latter, and you all know, I believe, that Marseilles children attend schools that are not worthy of the Republic. As for mal-housing, it is endemic, and it has been tragically illustrated by the eight dead on Rue d'Aubagne. All this causes repeated deaths, and the abominable security situation in our city. [[Protests on the benches of the LR and FI groups]] This extraordinary situation required an extraordinary response: we had it thanks to the visit of the President of the Republic. One billion for transport, in order to serve in particular the north of the city;...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u58	It's not funded!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u59	... the renovation of 10,000 homes – which has already begun – and 200 schools;...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u60	Where is equity?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u61	... progress in health, with a new mother-child centre, employment and entrepreneurship, culture... There are many subjects.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u62	Give back the money!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u63	[[Brouhaha on the benches of the LR, FI and GDR groups, many members of which show the clock]] Beyond the response to the daily discrimination suffered by the Marseillais, it is the ambition of the President of the Republic that I wish to welcome here, that of making Marseille a "capital of the Mediterranean". The Marseillais are proud to belong to this city. Deputy of the capital of the Mediterranean, on behalf of the Marseillais, I would like to thank the President of the Republic and the Government for their action.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u64	Time to speak, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u65	Prime Minister, we have an obligation to achieve results.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u66	Thank you, dear colleague...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u67	[[Vif applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] How does the Government intend to ensure that the planned actions are completed?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u68	The Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u69	Ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased to see you after this parliamentary holiday. The question you are asking, honourable Member, is important, highly symbolic: it is that of Marseille, the second largest city in our country, a beautiful city, a city of history and culture of which we are all very proud. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Protests on the benches of the LR and FI groups]] We must help Marseilles, whose population is facing serious difficulties. It is the role of the State, it is the role of the Government of the Republic – it is the head of a government that places the question of territories at the centre of its policy that tells you so – to go to the relief of the most difficult territories and populations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u70	Who's responsible?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u71	You recalled, after Mr Teissier, the problems of insecurity are very real in Marseilles, as are the problems of school attendance for children: almost 200 schools must be rebuilt; 32 out of 470 are still Pailleron type, which brings us back to the early 1970s. You all know the housing situation in this city, which has 40,000 unworthy housing units. According to the Fondation Abbé Pierre, 100,000 Marseillais live in completely unacceptable conditions. Everyone remembers the catastrophe on Rue d'Aubagne. These subjects are serious, and require the mobilization of the State at the highest level. And the state is mobilizing: in Marseilles as in other territories in difficulty, it responds "present".
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u72	What else?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u73	It does so first of all as regards its own competences. Mr. Gérald Darmanin has responded to Mr. Teissier on security issues, and we keep at the disposal of the National Assembly the data on the evolution of the police force in this city in recent years. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] We will also act in the area of justice, thanks to the exceptional effort made by the 8% increase in this budget, because you are right, Mr Teissier: the criminal response is essential to ensure the credibility of the State's action. This 8% increase is unprecedented, and we will start again, I announce it before the national representation, in 2022! I have no doubt that this budget will be voted on on every bench, because it is in the national interest, well beyond Marseilles. We will also intervene in the field of health, thanks to Segur, led by this majority. I know Timone well, and you know how much this institution needs our support: we're going to support it. We will invest, thanks to the National Agency for Urban Renewal (ANRU) and other tools at our disposal, in the renovation of housing. We're going to invest in schools. But, as the President of the Republic has said very clearly, on the occasion of this exceptional intervention of national solidarity, justified by the situation of the Marseillais and the Marseillais, we wish to achieve three things – I will work on it, as head of government, with the competent ministers. First of all, we want to control operations, with the respect of local elected officials. The State will form, together with the elected representatives of Marseilles, ad hoc companies that will enable us to ensure that these exceptional financings actually bring concrete and rapid solutions. [[Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon protested]] The President of the Republic said: he also wants these operations to be an opportunity to experiment with new solutions, which will be able to prosper beyond Marseille if they succeed as we wish. Finally, we hope for a change in the governance of Marseilles and its metropolis, because it is this governance that has too often upset the implementation of policies indispensable to Marseilles and Marseilles as well as to the entire metropolitan arc. This topic will be dealt with in the context of Bill 3DS – differentiation, decentralization, deconcentration and simplification – which will be presented to you by Jacqueline Gourault. [[Vif applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Controversial point: the situation in Marseilles is complex enough for this beautiful and large city to find, like all the others, the state at its side.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u74	Mrs Manuela Kéclard-Mondésir has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u75	Minister of Solidarity and Health, covid-19 has very serious social and psychological consequences, especially in Martinique, where 30% of French people live on less than 820 euros a month – this is also the reality of Martinique. Inequalities persist and are growing. This fourth wave of exceptional magnitude is a real disaster. Guy-Albert Rufin-Duhamel, a social engineer and member of the local scientific committee covid -19, stresses this: today's health crisis is the result of a social crisis amplified by the covid, and untreated. This analysis is supported by the scientific community in Martinique. A social shield is needed to support the population and limit the devastating effects of the health crisis. Social work must be rethought in close proximity to the most exposed people. This is what citizens, associations, social workers, local authorities and community centres for social action (CCAS) expect. Mobile mediation and social outreach teams must be promoted and financially supported without delay. Why didn't you operate the social reserve in Martinique? [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] What does the Government intend to do to effectively anticipate the effects of the crisis on socially disadvantaged populations? What does the Government think it is doing to support the most vulnerable, the most vulnerable, the most exposed and to reduce the collateral effects of this crisis? Action must now be taken at the social level, in parallel with action at the health level. Minister, how does the Government intend to act in this regard?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u76	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u77	[[Mr. Jean-Christophe Lagarde warmly applauds]] Thank you for this question; I largely share your analysis, even though I'm missing some elements. You say that the current health crisis in Martinique is the result of a social crisis; Madam Member, the health crisis is the result of a virus, which causes a disease that can now be prevented by a safe and effective vaccine. Only 20 to 30 per cent of the population of Martinique is immune. You can put the money you want, it won't prevent the virus from circulating until the population is protected. But you are right: confinement has important social and psychological consequences in Martinique. We do not, of course, want a new containment in a fifth or sixth wave. But if there were to be more waves, I say again, it would not be the result of a social crisis, but of the delay in vaccination. This is the whole difference that we can make between some ultramarine territories and the metropolis: it is the same variant that circulates. Again, I count on the elected representatives to send a courageous message to the population: if you do not want to be hit by the health crisis, protect yourself! Because the more precarious you are, the more social inequalities you suffer, the greater the health inequalities, and the more vaccinations you suffer: those who are furthest from vaccination are also the ones who suffer the most. Nevertheless, you are right to point out that when there is a crisis like this, there is an absolute need to accompany the most vulnerable people socially. Since the beginning of the crisis, we have always done so in metropolitan France, as in the ultramarine territories, with an exceptional increase in the school start-up allowance last year, the payment of exceptional solidarity aid to 4 million households in difficulty and the introduction of aid of 160 million euros to help young people in difficulty. Martinique had benefited from it. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and LR groups. – Mr. André Chassaigne protested]] You rightly ask the question of the social reserve; It is now under the jurisdiction of the territories. Sébastien Lecornu and I are following the case very closely. It is up to the territories to decide whether or not they are applying this mechanism in the period we know. We'll be with the Martinique in the long term.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u78	Mrs Manuela Kéclard-Mondésir has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u79	Immunization is not the only solution or concern. It is true that the issue of vaccination arises, but we must take into account the social situation of families.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u80	Mr Patrick Hetzel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u81	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group and on some benches of the Dem group]] My question is for the Minister of National Education, Youth and Sport. First of all, I would like to wish the teaching teams, students and their parents a good start and good luck, hoping that this year will be more lenient on the health front. In taking up your duties, you said that you were going to build the confidence of the entire nation in the school of the Republic. Today, if we take stock, you know that we are very far from it. Over time, you've rather built mistrust. Let us take a few examples. You announce 600,000 salivary tests per week for 6.5 million students, which amounts to testing at best one student every ten weeks; Unfortunately, the good business is inefficient. Not to mention that, for several months, you have in fact never managed to perform more than 300,000 salivary tests a week. In short, for the sake of trust, we'll come back. A recent report from your own general inspection denounces your reform of the baccalaureate that deepens inequalities.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u82	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u83	It reserves the options to the most privileged and the majority of students in France, especially in rural areas, have only a very limited choice. In these circumstances, it is difficult to build trust. Another example is that class closures due to the covid have increased, alas, throughout France for a week, to such an extent that your ministry does not want to give the overall figure; yet another situation that does not really create confidence.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u84	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u85	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] My question will therefore be very direct: what do you intend to do to straighten the bar, at last?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u86	The next speaker is the Minister for National Education, Youth and Sport.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u87	And inequality!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u88	I am also pleased to find you, Mr Corbière, no less in shape than Mr Corbière and no less determined to describe everything in grey, against all evidence, and by mixing all the subjects, since the three you have discussed have nothing to do with each other. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Long protests on the benches of the LR group]] Had I followed your advice since the crisis began, the students would have been deprived of school for months. That's not what happened. UNESCO itself points out that France has managed the health crisis very well at school level. So you can continue, but the French know well that we managed to open the schools, especially last year thanks to our policy of salivary tests which was one of the elements of our action. Yes, at the end of the year, we had 600,000 salivary tests per week; I don't see what criticism can be made about that.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u89	Give everyone the baccalaureate!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u90	Reform of the baccalaureate had been required for decades. Two majorities, yours but also the socialist majority, may have wanted it and considered it at certain times. It's pretty tasty to see you criticizing her now. First, it is based on freedom. Students have been given more freedom and today, a majority of them say in the surveys that they are in favour of this reform.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u91	Oh, yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u92	I mean it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u93	This is precisely the school of trust and we have developed it in consultation with the high school students. By giving more choices, we have gone deeper. Yes, our strategy is to raise the general level of the nation and of each student. And yes, the new options make it possible to pursue a social policy since we can proactively propose them in the most disadvantaged territories. That is what is happening and we have managed to carry out these reforms despite the health crisis. Indeed, succeeding in leading them while managing the health crisis inspires confidence. Of course the oppositions are violent, sometimes radical. Sometimes you associate with it, we can see it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u94	Oh!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u95	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on a few benches of the Dem group. – Mr Fabien Di Filippo strongly protested]] Yes, you have to build a school of trust. I dream that one day you will depoliticize these subjects, that you will succeed in admitting what is right and what is worse and that together we will make the necessary progress. Of course, we can always make progress, but if you look at what has been accomplished for five years, at least it has been done consistently and in application of clear ideas that everyone can understand.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u96	Mr Patrick Hetzel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u97	[[Vif applause on the benches of the LR group]] Your self-satisfaction is incredible. Look at the polls you love so much: one parent in two has a very bad image of you; According to the latest survey, two thirds of parents consider that the level of education in the national education system has declined during the period you were a minister. If you are satisfied, congratulations!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u98	It's so sad not to be a minister, Mr. Hetzel!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u99	Mr Sylvain Waserman has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u100	My question is to the Minister for Labour, Employment and Integration. Let us make it clear that the "no matter what" has saved millions of jobs, and collectively we can be proud of the proactive decisions that have been taken by our government with broad support from the National Assembly on those issues that have often gone beyond political divides. Before I was a member of Parliament, I was a business manager. I can see how hard this crisis has been for everyone, for both employees and job seekers, but also for those who create jobs and attractiveness in our territories. Today, at the time of recovery, these entrepreneurs are all telling me the same thing: we don't find a job. If we do not solve this difficulty in recruiting, it will penalise us twice: on the one hand, by limiting growth, on the other hand, by discouraging job seekers in their research. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Of course, to recruit, you have to pay the fair wage, but that is not enough. Of course, the reform of apprenticeship and vocational training which affects 520,000 young people – they were 280,000 in 2016 – is a major success, as is the "1 young person, 1 solution" initiative. But that is not enough. Of course, it will also be necessary to reform unemployment insurance, even if the judge for interim measures of the Council of State considers that this is not the right time. In my opinion, it goes beyond its prerogatives to enter the field of political opportunity. But whether we're for or against it, it's up to politics to decide. Of course, at last, everyone can act. In my constituency, I launched the "300 young people to work" initiative, where volunteer business coaches accompany 300 young people from priority neighbourhoods until they find a CDI or CSD of more than six months. It is a concrete action that shows that our young people want to succeed and that they can be given the means to do so. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem and LaREM groups]] Minister, it is necessary to act now to encourage the resumption of employment rather than the continuation of unemployment. Our unemployment rate is 8 per cent, and it is up to us to succeed in the incredible challenge of achieving the 7 per cent target. How can we go even faster and further?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u101	The Minister for Labour, Employment and Integration has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u102	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] I can assure you that the Government is committed to supporting the recovery of our economy by responding to the skills needs of our companies. In fact, there are many companies that find employees and recruit. I recall that in the second quarter, we broke all the records with 2.2 million hires, almost half of them in CDI. But you are right to point out that some sectors actually have difficulty recruiting, such as services or hotels, cafes and restaurants. The Government is very involved with them. It has been several months since I asked Pôle Emploi to identify the jobseekers who can fill the available vacancies and to offer them, if necessary, training. Together with the Prime Minister, we still want to increase the training of jobseekers as closely as possible to the needs of businesses. Since the beginning of the year, Pôle Emploi has recruited 160,000 employees in hotels, cafes and restaurants, and 25,000 in the last four weeks. Together with the Prime Minister, we will soon see the regional presidents who are in charge of training jobseekers. The aim is therefore to find the best solutions to be applied locally by mobilising all regional actors. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] As you have also said, certain sectors and employers must also take their part in improving the attractiveness of the trades. These may be salary-related issues, but one third of the companies we are questioning tell us that candidates have given up a job because of working conditions. Branches are ready for significant progress: cleanliness, safety and road transport. Other industries, such as hotels, cafes and restaurants, need to take advantage of these challenges.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u103	Mrs Beatrice Descamps has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u104	My question is for the Minister of National Education, Youth and Sport. On 2 September last in Marseille, the President of the Republic announced that he wanted to conduct an experiment aimed at giving the school principal the freedom to choose his team of teachers, an experiment that could be generalized. An announcement which comes, let us recall, after the Grenelle de l'Éducation and before the final reading of the bill of our colleague Cécile Rilhac creating the position of principal or principal of school. That more freedom should be given to the teaching teams is obvious if we want a true school of trust. Training adapted and specific to our territories and to the types of institutions is also obvious. That the directors deserve more recognition and help is another. However, the announcement of this experiment raises many questions. Some see it as a means of experimenting with the establishment of a hierarchical power of the school principal; Still others believe that this would be detrimental to teamwork, which is essential to the proper functioning of a school. Minister, what is your vision of tomorrow's school? Is it a school where young children, teenagers and adults would feel good? What changes in the role of school principal are you considering? Are we going to be a school principal? Would it not be necessary to experiment in other territories and at other levels?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u105	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u106	[[Applause on the benches of the IDU-I group]] What are the possible consequences in the context of the review of the text creating the function of principal or principal?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u107	The next speaker is the Minister for National Education, Youth and Sport.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u108	Member of Parliament, I'm glad to see you too. The concept of the organization of primary school is a key topic. The President of the Republic spoke to him in Marseilles, in a context that was recalled earlier, where he announced state support for the community so that things would go well for all children, if one wanted to be simple. If there is to be a school of trust, that is, a school structure worthy of the name, we must not only look at material issues but also concern ourselves with the immaterial aspects, namely motivated teams, happy to be there and the outposts to make the children succeed. [[Ms. Bénédicte Pételle applauds]] In Marseille, with the president, we saw that these teams are there and are very motivated. They are to be commended, they are doing an absolutely remarkable job, especially in priority education networks. Recent measures for priority education, such as now the division by two of the major classes, in addition to CP and EC1, and the attractiveness measures with the bonuses that we have created as a reinforced priority education network – REP+ – are involved in the construction of a school of trust. Today, we want to go further to ensure that there is a proper school structure and an organization based on teamwork. There are two subjects. There is the experiment we will lead in Marseilles. The time allotted does not allow me to go to the end of the explanation, but these days we will refine with you, the national representation, and obviously with the trade union organisations what this will mean. These experiments aim to be at the forefront of what the team spirit at the service of the children of Marseilles can be. There will be a transition period of several years to rebuild the building. It will therefore be necessary to demonstrate a project spirit with real project leaders; That is the meaning of what the President of the Republic has said. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Ms. Maina Sage also applauds]] Then Cécile Rilhac's bill will soon be discussed again in the National Assembly. This will be the time to talk about school management in general, but not necessarily to go in your direction; the debate is still open. We have worked a lot with the MP for more than three years now and a promising result is emerging. In fact, primary school was the top priority of the quinquennium with not only the allocation of resources accordingly, but also the promotion of a mindset aimed at strengthening team spirit. This, of course, involves a school management that is both supported by the State and endowed with the means by which it can exercise its responsibility, which is considerable, that is, the future of our children.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u109	Mrs Beatrice Descamps has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u110	[[Mr. Jean-Christophe Lagarde applauds]] Team spirit and teamwork are important; Hence the need to reflect on the role of the Director. Today, some directors do not see themselves as superiors of their colleagues, while others would not be embarrassed. As I said earlier, the territories are different, so you have to have a fine approach for the good of all the small French.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u111	Mr Benoit Simian has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u112	In this parliamentary re-entry, let us hope that a wind blows on our work. My question is for Barbara Pompili, Minister of Ecological Transition. While the World Congress of Nature is currently taking place in Marseille, where, once again, all scientists and NGOs are collectively drawing the alarm, and we have just voted for the "climate and resilience" law, at the same time, in Gironde, at the heart of the regional natural park created in 2019 by decree of Prime Minister Édouard Philippe, an ecological disaster programmed, with a project of deep-water drilling aimed at supplying Bordeaux Métropole with drinking water. This project, which includes about fourteen drillings over 300 metres deep, represents an ecological risk and would have a negative impact on the surface table – also known as the "Plio-quaterary table" – of our marine pine forests. It could lead to a lowering of the level of our groundwater in the summer, of such a magnitude that our marine pine forests would run the risk of their growth slowing down or even disappearing. In addition, we are told that the supply of drinking water to certain seaside resorts, such as Lacanau, could also be threatened. You will therefore understand that this project carried out without consultation, in total opacity, causes the legitimate concern of the populations concerned. The BRGM – Bureau of Geological and Mining Research – estimates that the affected area extends over 15,000 hectares, located in Medocan communes, but also in municipalities adjacent to the Arcachon Basin. [[Applause on the benches of the LT and IDU-I groups]] As you know, water is a common good. When considering the climate and resilience bill, my amendment to create a scientific observatory dedicated to this drilling project was declared inadmissible. I brought you before me last May for you to carry out an inspection mission of the GSDG – the General Council for the Environment and Sustainable Development – which I see today as an emergency. Can you make a commitment to the national representation that your department will put an end to this risky project for future generations?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u113	The Minister for Environmental Transition has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u114	Water management is one of the crucial issues of the coming years, especially since global warming is making the upheavals more and more rapid: we must adapt to them. Water foundations have taken place and more specific foundations for agriculture will soon be set up, but, you are right, it is appropriate to consider this issue and territorial water management plans are absolutely essential in this regard. To answer your question, the Gironde is a department that has high quality deep water tables, which currently provide almost all of the area's drinking water supply. However, given the population growth that the department is experiencing – it is attractive! – and despite the water savings achieved in recent years thanks to the work that has been carried out, alternative projects must be undertaken to relieve imbalanced aquifers. The project you mentioned is under consideration, under the control of Bordeaux Métropole. Water from boreholes that would take place in non-deficit aquifers – unlike others – would serve not only the metropolis, but also the Entre-deux-Mers and the south of the Bordeaux agglomeration. Since this project is an old one, a consultation was conducted in 2014 and impact studies were carried out by the BRGM or by INRAE – the National Research Institute for Agriculture, Food and the Environment – with rather reassuring conclusions at this stage. Bordeaux Métropole has recently relaunched the concertation, which had stopped in 2019. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] In this context, – I give you all the elements I have – environmental studies began in September 2020. No request for authorisation has been submitted at this stage, bearing in mind that, in all cases, prior consultation, under the aegis of guarantors appointed by the CNDP – the National Commission for Public Debate – must be organised prior to such a submission, which should allow everyone to express themselves. Where appropriate, this consultation will have to discuss the general interest dimension of the project, in particular with regard to the balanced management of water resources, and take stock of the studies already carried out. If the conclusions of the consultation lead to the need for further studies, the State will ensure that they are properly carried out.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u115	Mrs Stéphanie Rist has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u116	My question, which I particularly associate with the Members of the European Parliament from Montpellier and Rambouillet, is addressed to the Minister for Solidarity and Health. Our vaccination strategy is effective, with more than 77% of the population having a complete vaccination schedule to date. These are all lives saved, already estimated at more than 50,000 by a recent French study. Despite the pessimistic forecasts of some on these benches, we are therefore one of the best vaccinated European countries, while the health pass is approved by a majority of French and supported by the actors on the ground, who organize themselves in the different sectors of activity where it needs to be controlled – they should be thanked for this. Even if we voted here for the laws that protected the French, nothing would be possible without the incredible mobilization of health and emergency workers and communities, which made vaccination accessible to all and allowed the French to be tested as necessary. However, we are facing an alarming rise in violence for our Republic. In the vaccination centre I visited last week in Orléans, patients asked nurses to drop the dose they were about to inject, to pretend, and very often with unacceptable aggressiveness. In Montpellier, a demonstration ended with vandalized pharmacies. In Rambouillet, a pharmacist was forced to give up vaccination. In Marseilles, hospital directors were threatened. "Collabo", "Nazi", "sold": that's what people who care for us hear every day. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Remember that the enemy is the virus, not the caregivers – caregivers today threatened with death! I believe that we must reaffirm here the very firmness that we must have against those who believe that their supposed freedom allows them everything. So what steps will you take to stop these threats against people who are just doing their job? How will we protect those who protect us?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u117	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u118	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u119	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Thank you for your important question. You are right to point out that the great family of caregivers, made up of both those who wear the coat and those who do not wear it but work in contact with the caregivers and organize the care – i.e. the hospital directors or the staff of the regional health agencies – who have been on the bridge for eighteen months, has not deserved anything other than our acclaim, our esteem and our thanks for their action. I contacted the pharmacist in Montpellier you referred to. I also called, at the request of Mrs Bergé, Rambouillet's pharmacist. I contacted the director of the hospital in Guadeloupe, as well as the director of Marseilles. Each time, these people have not understood the scandalous situation they have suffered, because it cannot be. What are we talking about? There are people who are afraid of the vaccine: you have to talk to them, show pedagogy, reassure them, explain them, accompany them. And then there are people who want to scare. These people, I look them in the eye...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u120	They're shaking!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u121	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] ...and I say to them one very simple thing: You who, hidden behind your screen, make threats to white coats or hospital directors, you who go down the street not to show your fear, but to taint the housings of the hospital directors or to break pharmacies, you will not pass! You will not pass, because the very meaning of the commitment of those who you take care of, who have what is called, in the health community, a vocation, is that on the day you are in trouble, when you will be ill, when you will be in a situation of fragility, they will be there for you, as they are for any of our fellow citizens: they do not sort between the good and the bad patients. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM groups and Action ens]] This is the honour of our country and our caregivers, and they can obviously count on my full support, as well as that of the Minister of the Interior, with whom I have discussed throughout the summer the strengthening of the safety of vaccination centres, pharmacies, medical offices, nurses, hospital directors, etc. We are with them and, thanks to your question, the national representation shows that it is also so: I thank you for that.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u122	Mr Gérard Leseul has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u123	Mr Minister of National Education, you announced at a press conference on 26 August the full implementation of the reforms carried out since the beginning of the quinquennium, thus enabling the general level of students to rise, and assured that they had given more to those who had the least. However, we do not have the same record of the last five years, marked by the decline in our schools, colleges and high schools. The regression first concerns the level of the pupils. The various international studies unfortunately show that, for the first time, the level of French pupils falls, both in reading – by 3 points – and in science – by 8 points – and in mathematics – by 10 points –, falling below the averages of the European Union. We then see a regression in the fight against inequalities. The quinquennium began with the elimination of all the mechanisms introduced by the previous majority, which were used to combat educational and social inequalities; It ends with a bad campaign on secularism and with haughty or even contemptuous statements, insinuating that the school start-up allowances would be used for the purchase of flat screens. So what understanding of solidarity do you have, when the facts and your words contradict our republican promise? The decline in school supervision, particularly among the public, should also be highlighted. In five years, you have reduced the average number of teachers per student in the second degree by 3.5%, and 10% in the public. In the first degree, the average number of teachers per pupil fell by 1.8% in the public sector, when it increased by 11% in the private sector! As for the inclusive school, you are removing teachers from schools working in ULIS – a local school inclusion unit – from the college to reallocate them to primary school and you are recruiting contract workers through the Employment Pole – I found it in my constituency. I come to my question: while the health crisis persists and the vast majority of teachers are vaccinated, can you assure us that there will be for this school year, as we have been demanding for many months,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u124	Thank you, Congressman.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u125	... CO sensors, air purifiers and self-tests?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u126	The next speaker is the Minister for National Education, Youth and Sport.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u127	It is difficult to take your question from one aspect or another, as it contains different elements, presented in bulk. To sum up, you argue that our social record is not satisfactory. Let's go to this field! [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] First, never so much money – the credits are on the increase – will have been spent on national education during a quinquennium. The funds released are significantly higher than in the previous quinquennium. And the budget increases have not been made any way, as you liked to do in the previous majority by demagogically spreading them: we have targeted priorities. [[Same movements]] The first of these is primary school, with the duplication of classes, which is the most social measure you can imagine!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u128	What about rurality?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u129	The measure concerns major kindergarten sections, CPs and EC1s and 400,000 children per year. Yes, the level goes up thanks to this measure: our evaluations show that. [[Applause on the benches of the groups LaREM, Dem and Agir ens. – Mr Adrien Quatennens protested]] As for the international investigations to which you refer, let's be serious – I sometimes see such a statement in the newspapers! The most recent dates back to two years and covers 15-year-olds. Who is responsible for the results they present? Do you think this is the majority and this Government? We inherited a difficult situation. The decline of the level, I am the first to recognize it. And it is at the moment when a first rebound takes place that, of course, the criticisms of the very ones who are responsible for this decline arrive. Yes, we are proud of what we have done. I am not afraid to say this, because the first elements show us that the level of students who are currently entering CM1 or CM2 is better than that of their predecessors – the most disadvantaged backgrounds are the first to be involved.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u130	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u131	Nothing can be more social than this balance sheet. I would add that, of course, our assessment is not limited to that. We have also launched the system of "work done at the college", which benefits one in three college students, or the reform of the vocational school, which has reduced the dropout rate compared to the beginning of the quinquennium. I also affirm that the reform of the General High School is social, as it will limit dropout in higher education in the future. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Moreover, the fact that we have carried out these measures despite the health crisis shows that our social work continued to produce results during this period. Yes, the majority can be proud of that record. This is the first time that a team has been responsible for so long in this area, which has allowed it to act consistently, instead of operating an incessant demagogic zigzag, as you preferred to do.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u132	Mrs Nathalie Bassire has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u133	Mr Minister of Economy, you know that life is dear to Réunion and the situation is getting worse as the effects of the pandemic are increasingly felt. The price of consumer products is blazing: it is the case of telephone supply, health costs and, above all, food products, which are on average 26% more expensive than in Hexagon. The same applies to raw materials, which are mostly imported, destined for our companies. While these factors alone constitute a problem, their impact on the lives of the Réunions is increased by a rate of unemployment of 33 per cent and by precariousness. Indeed, 39 per cent of the island's inhabitants live below the poverty line. These data speak for themselves and make it possible to understand why In 2018, Réunion experienced such an important movement of yellow vests. But three years later, and despite the efforts that have been made, life is no less expensive. On the contrary, the disruption of the global economy, linked to the health environment, has led to shortages, delays in delivery and an explosion in freight prices. The cost of some containers is multiplied by five and that of raw materials, which has already increased by 25 % in one year, is about to undergo a dramatic surge for companies, which are very heavily dependent on imports. What about households? Let's remember, a large part of the food is imported. For the curry, for example, flat that, I'm sure, you know and appreciate, it takes onions. However, we produce only 1000 tonnes locally, compared with 9000 tonnes imported. With a maritime transport market in the midst of a crisis, consumer goods prices are also exploding, while we have no visibility of the future of this sector. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group, as well as on several benches of the GDR group]] Action must therefore be taken before the situation would deteriorate further. What concrete, new and immediate solutions do you propose in order to prevent Réunionnais from suffering these extra costs and companies from suffering from the hazards of the maritime market and to allow households to finally have a decent purchasing power, in a context of persistent health emergency?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u134	The next speaker is the Minister for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u135	Mrs Bassire, you are referring to the economic situation on the island of La Réunion. First of all, it is because of the health situation, which is still very degraded on the island, that we are extremely concerned, and we are making great efforts to find suitable solutions and to accompany all the inhabitants because you can imagine that, until the health situation is clarified, the economic situation will find it difficult to improve. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] You are right, however, to point out that the cost of certain products is higher on the island, because of its situation, than in other departments. The subject is not new and requires study. The Government is sensitive and, as soon as the health situation permits, we will work with the elected representatives of the Territory and the various officials to find appropriate solutions to accompany the economic recovery in that territory. We hope that this will improve the overall purchasing power of the inhabitants, so that they can return to their normal lives.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u136	Mrs Anne Brugnera has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u137	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] My question is for the Minister of National Education. Last Thursday, our schoolchildren, college students and high school students made their way back to school. It – alas, still under the seal of the covid – went very well, thanks to the investment, anticipation, experience and mobilization of all. [[Same movements]] Investment, of course, because we have increased the national education budget by €8 billion; the anticipation then, since as early as July a protocol for the reception of pupils, declined into four levels, was disseminated – each was able to consult it, to appropriate it and, on 22 August, you announced that, in view of the state of the epidemic, level 2 was retained: so the teams were able to prepare themselves; the experience also, that of teachers, but also of territorial agents who run canteens, and of out-of-school facilitators, who have all learned to work with the virus and who have allowed for a secure reception of each child; Finally, I would like to thank all school principals and principals, school principals, teachers, who have remained mobilized despite the covid, for the reception and teaching of our children and young people. I attended this re-entry in three schools in Lyon...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u138	But what's the question?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u139	...and I was struck by the atmosphere of calm, serenity and trust. Schools will now be able to focus on their educational objectives, the success of students and the raising of the school level, while remaining extremely vigilant to respect the protocols, organizing the vaccination of the 12-17 year olds and reacting to cases of covid in a class: it is a matter of fear, as you know, Minister, for the families that will have to organize themselves, especially at the professional level. [[Exclaims on a few benches in the LR group]] So, could you remind the national representation, what is planned, if a case of covid occurs in a class? What organisation will be set up to ensure the protection of children and the educational continuity we owe them?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u140	There was no question!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u141	The next speaker is the Minister for National Education, Youth and Sport.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u142	Mrs Anne Brugnera, a first point about this school year, which took place last weekend, shows that it has indeed gone well throughout the country. Students and teachers were at the meeting,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u143	On the other hand, the sanitary protocols were missing!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u144	...and no problem of importance has gone back to us. It is important to clarify this because, if everything seems normal, we are not in an ordinary situation but in a health crisis, and all this has been possible only thanks to the presence, on the ground, of exceptional women and men: the national education staff, teachers and staff of the local authorities who, together, have allowed a return to school like this one. It is our great and beautiful country that has made such a thing possible, and we must be proud of our school, united in gratitude to the teachers. If this return is marked by the health crisis, I would like to highlight all its other dimensions and to recall the levers that we have at our disposal for the school year to take place as normally as possible. The first of these consists of testing, alerting, protecting – in other words, testing as much as possible, in a different way in the first and second degrees, knowing how to spot and break the chains of contamination. In the second degree, this will not be through class closure, but through the identification of contact cases. When you're in contact – which is not necessarily the case when you're in the classroom of an already contaminated student – you have to stay at home unless you've been vaccinated. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Those who have to stay at home will, in my opinion, not be very numerous: in fact, today there are only 545 closed classes in France, a little more than 0.1%, which corresponds roughly to last year's situation. For these students in any case, the protocol of pedagogical continuity – specific to each school – will apply for only seven days, which therefore has nothing to do with confinement.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u145	Mr Philippe Meyer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u146	My question is to the Minister for Agriculture and Food. Olivier Dussopt told the Senate in June that, as part of the stimulus plan and its policies, the Government had the will to decarbonize the economy, in particular the construction sector, and to promote the timber sector. Today, more than government promises, these are concrete actions expected of professionals in the wood industry, quick responses adapted to the problems they face. For months, individuals and professionals have been facing growing difficulties in supplying timber. My colleagues in the Senate and in the Assembly regularly question you on this issue, without any improvement. In the absence of a government response to this alarming situation, the National Timber Federation is mobilizing against massive log exports: for the past six months, the majority of private forest oak volumes have been exported, and 90% of oak sawmills no longer have enough wood to meet their needs. At the beginning of the year, nearly 200000 cubic metres of French oak were exported to China without any processing: 42% more than in 2020, a figure which rises to 66% for softwood. This alarming shortage weakens businesses, our artisans and our citizens, since 400,000 direct jobs in the sector are affected. The timber sector is still unable to meet domestic demand, as the sector's trade balance has a deficit of EUR 7.4 billion, while our country has Europe's fourth largest forest area. The plan for forest and wood does not seem to match the challenge or the urgency we face. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] In concrete terms, what is the Government doing to generate the necessary investment, to fully exploit the potential of our forests and to boost this sector, whose multiple opportunities are strategic and essential for our country?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u147	The next speaker is the Minister for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u148	Mr Meyer, we have seen in recent weeks an overall acceleration in the price of materials and even a shortage of some of them. This phenomenon is due to a very strong economic recovery...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u149	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u150	... and, as of June 15, we received, Bruno Le Maire, Emmanuelle Wargon and myself, representatives of the sectors affected by these increases and this shortage of materials. We made immediate decisions. First of all, we have set up a crisis committee and a mediator, responsible, in the various fields, for bringing solidarity between the actors; Secondly, we decided that public actors would not apply a penalty in the event of delay in the delivery of construction sites, particularly in the wood sector, which was mainly affected. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] The Prime Minister called on the European Commission to consider whether it would be possible to put an end to massive exports of timber, particularly to China. In addition, in October, the foundation of wood and forest will be launched, which will give us the opportunity to work with all partners to find more lasting solutions to the problem you are talking about.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u151	Mr Adrien Quatennens has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u152	Prime Minister, the economic situation is, it seems, resounding. This is how several ministers of your government are said to rejoice loudly, without any contradiction: journalists nod their heads, editorialists bleed in cadence. Unemployment is falling, they say: no matter whether there are 5.7 million people enrolled in categories A, B and C, almost 5% more than in March 2020, if Mr Le Maire and Mrs Borne say that unemployment is falling, then unemployment is falling. Jobs are not filled, they say: that it is important that there is on average only one job unfilled for twenty persons enrolled in categories A, B and C, if Mr Le Maire and Mrs Borne say that the problem of unemployment is the jobs not filled, then it is the jobs not filled. There were no social breaks, they say: no matter if there were more than a thousand layoffs plans, between March 2020 and May 2021 for a total of 112,000 layoffs,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u153	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u154	...despite the billions paid by the state, if Mr. Le Maire says there was no social breakdown, there was no social breakdown. And it is on the basis of these false rejoicings that you intend to continue the reform of unemployment insurance and, why not, bring back the pension reform, both promised to the European Commission, which once again holds the pen of Mr Macron's economic programme for his election campaign. You repeat to the length of the antenna that it is inevitable that the French work longer: that is not true! There are some 150 billion reserves in the funds earmarked for this purpose, so there is no immediate problem of pension financing. To say that it is inevitable that the French work longer simply amounts to a refusal to share the wealth produced, and there is no need to stigmatize the 3% of the labour force benefiting from special schemes in order to try to divide the French. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] [[Same moves. – Mr Sébastien Jumel also applauds]] Prime Minister, pension reform was abandoned a year and a half ago in the face of the mobilization of French and opposition parliamentarians. For our part, we are ready to fight her again if she should come back. What are your intentions and your calendar?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u155	The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Pensions and Occupational Health.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u156	Mr Adrien Quatennens, the President of the Republic said on 12 July that pension reform is right and necessary.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u157	Anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u158	You know that, because we debated it at length here, a little over a year ago. This reform, we must do so to ensure the sustainability of the distributed system, which we all believe in.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u159	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u160	This reform will have to be done to ensure that our pension system can continue, but also that it is more just, not broken and unreadable, as it is now.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u161	Remember that you did less than 8% in the last election!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u162	[[Exclaims on FI banks]] Today, the entire Government is mobilized on economic recovery and improvement of indicators – thank you for reminding them that they were good. You were right to recall the action of the Government: thanks in particular to the partial unemployment and the aid that allowed companies to keep their heads out of the water, unemployment has returned to its 2019 rate, while growth remains steady and will probably exceed 6%.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u163	It's not nice to lie. There are children watching us.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u164	You tell us that this reform is useless: I simply refer you to the studies carried out by the Pension Guidance Board, where all the social partners sit, which shows that our system is in great difficulty...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u165	Stop with that!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u166	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] ... with 8 billion euros in deficit, destined to become 10 and 15 billion by 2035. Mr President, you cannot deny the reality of this budgetary stalemate or contest that it is putting our system in serious difficulty by division.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u167	Yes! We're contesting it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u168	It's regression in motion!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u169	Mrs Alexandra Louis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u170	My question is to Ms. Nadia Hay, Minister of the City. "It's Marseille! We know this expression; It is marked by both the seal of fatality and resilience. A few weeks ago, 14-year-old Ryan was carried away by a burst of kalashnikov in front of 8-year-olds: it's Marseilles! The anguish of a mother in the northern neighborhoods to see her son or daughter sink into traffic is Marseille! One in eight people living in unworthy housing, and 174 schools in an advanced state of disrepair, is Marseille! But Marseilles is not just that. Citizens who fight for the future, mothers and teachers who organize solidarity networks, successful entrepreneurs, talents that reveal themselves, police officers engaged in the field, children who dream of becoming footballer, sailor-fireman, engineer or even president, is Marseille. You met them; with them, in Marseilles, you have set up educational cities and strengthened prevention. You were at the side of the President of the Republic during his historic visit, not only to promise financial aid, but to counter the urgency and to present an ambition worthy of the second largest city in France. I would also like, together with all the members of the Group of the European People's Party, to welcome the announcements made by the President of the Republic. [[Applause on the benches of the Action ens group]] To combat insecurity, we have strengthened the capacity of the judiciary and the police. But we cannot see Marseille in big without looking at it as a whole: we must therefore tackle the roots of evil through education, prevention and the fight against poverty. Madam Deputy Minister, you once told me, "We either win together, or we lose together. Citizens, associations and many local elected representatives are ready to act together to raise Marseilles. What will your ministry do to drive this new momentum?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u171	The Minister responsible for the city has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u172	Madam Member, you are perfectly demonstrating that there is no better than the Marseillais to talk about Marseilles and that there is no better place for them to comment on the three-day visit that the President of the Republic made to Marseilles.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u173	It's a little normal...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u174	What did we hear during this sequence, if not the words "requirement", "waiting", but also "hope", "unpublished approach" and "new method"? I will not list here the reciprocal commitments that have been made, for I would do so with much less talent than the Prime Minister; What I can tell you is that the compass of "Marseille en grand" points towards the neighborhoods. Some want to address the issue of neighbourhoods from a security perspective. We must not deny that security issues are out of order, and the Minister of the Interior has expressed himself at length on this subject by putting an end to certain fantasies, but at the same time we must repair Marseilles. The President of the Republic has given meaning to our collective action by announcing the renovation of schools, the creation of Mediterranean studios, the crossroads of entrepreneurship and transport to open up the neighbourhoods, putting an end to forty-five years of inaction in this field. It is also a job for the city's politics: 17 million euros are spent each year on the city of Marseille to support associations and to build social ties, including through sixty educators and specialized mediators. It is unprecedented for the state to intervene on the subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u175	It's historical!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u176	On the other hand, 300 million euros will be spent on urban renewal, and the President of the Republic has pledged to double this envelope if the elected representatives are ready. You will have understood it, it is not a plan, but a renewed ambition that is displayed by the President of the Republic; the one, precisely, who missed the previous plans, whether they came from the left or the right.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u177	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u178	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Agir ens groups, as well as on some benches of the Dem group]] You're asking me about my action. Under the authority of the Prime Minister, I will ensure that all the inhabitants of the neighbourhoods can benefit from these measures, because France must be an opportunity for all.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u179	Mr Jean-Pierre Vigier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u180	Prime Minister, in your general policy speech of 15 July 2020, you made ruralism one of the main thrusts of government policy. However, we learned from an interim report from the Court of Auditors on 24 July that a number of aid for rural development was actually being received by urban areas: for example, 40% of the DETR amounts – the provision of equipment for rural areas – benefited urban municipalities in 2018. If we do not fall into the trap of opposition between cities and the countryside, this situation, I say loud and clear, is not acceptable. For having been mayor of a commune in a rural department for more than twelve years, you know the urgent need to support the territories more strongly and clearly: ruralness deserves better than mere promises. In this respect, all territories – I insist – must be given equal attention, and more specifically rural towns and villages far removed from urban dynamics. Should I remind you that the municipalities have been subject to several budgetary restrictions in recent years? It is essential that campaign-specific measures fully meet their objectives. [[Applause on the benches of the LR and GDR groups]] As the 2022 Finance Bill approaches, statements of intent are no longer sufficient. Prime Minister, when will you launch an ambitious rural policy for a sustainable and coherent development of the territory?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u181	Excellent question!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u182	We're all Marseillais!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u183	The Minister responsible for the city has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u184	You are asking us about the territorial distribution of state support for local investment, in particular the insufficient targeting of rural areas. Your question is based on a recent reference by the Court of Auditors, on which the Government has expressed significant reservations. First, the DETR and the DSIL – the support for local investment – benefit more to rural areas and the most fragile territories: on average, the most densely populated departments received 1.5 euros from DETR and 7 euros from DSIL per capita, compared with 95 euros from DETR and 19 euros from DSIL for the least populated departments. Moreover, the figures show that these allocations play a role in territorial cohesion and contribute to vertical equalisation: for example, the ten departments with the lowest median standard of living were allocated, on average, 30 euros of DETR and 13 euros of DSIL per capita, compared with 8 euros of DETR and 7 euros of DSIL for the ten most affluent departments. Secondly, the goal of the DETR is to target rural areas, which it does effectively. The Court of Auditors states that in 2018, more than a quarter of the projects funded by the DETR concerned urban municipalities. However, with reference to the INSEE's new municipal density grid, the share of grants allocated in 2019 to densely populated municipalities or of intermediate density under the DETR covers less than 15% of projects and less than 25% of the municipal envelope. In addition, the distribution of the DETR has evolved over time to take into account the rural nature of the departments as precisely as possible. In addition, the Finance Act for 2021 carried out a reform, based on the communal density grid, to improve methods of calculation. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] As you can see, all of these data demonstrate the reality of rural support.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u185	Mr Jean-Pierre Vigier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u186	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] The report, however, says the opposite. Minister Delegate, rurality is 20% of the population for 80% of the territories: help her!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u187	Mr Moetai Brotherson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u188	[[Applause on all benches]] Before I ask my question to the Minister of Solidarity and Health, I would like to pay tribute to the caregivers of Polynesia and to those who have been there in recent days to fight the pandemic in our homes and overseas. My question is candid. I hope they don't make me an antivax, a conspiracy or whatever. I am the son of a nurse and vaccinated; I've always been vaccinated and I don't have a problem with the vaccines. Nevertheless, I hear from our caregivers, including doctors, asking: When people are sick and they call us, what can we do, except give them Doliprane? That is the meaning of the question that I ask you today: what can we do in France in 2021? The vaccination policy is being launched and we have understood the strategy, but in parallel, is there another strategy?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u189	We can wonder!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u190	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR, FI and SOC groups]] Are there any research going on to develop a drug to treat, excuse me for the term, this fucking virus?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u191	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u192	I would like to add my thanks to yours. Over eighty caregivers flew last week to French Polynesia, leaving their families and their usual workplaces. Mobilizing so many people at the heart of the summer has been a real feat: it is the result of the very important work carried out by the RHAs, the regional health agencies, which are often forgotten to mention and which I thank again. We'll always be with the inhabitants of Polynesia, and I exchanged yesterday with President Édouard Fritch to make sure everything was going well on the spot. You ask a good question: what to do against the covid -19? First, as you said yourself, we are vaccinated: it avoids catching it or, if caught, contracting a serious form; The vaccine greatly reduces the risks, so there is no longer any need to ask the question. If, however, you catch covid -19, it will be in most cases a benign form that sometimes combines fever with influenza syndrome with curvature, chills, pain, etc. It is then necessary to treat the fever for what it is, that is, not a fever linked to a bacterium, but a viral fever that heals itself; In this case, you lower fever with Doliprane, other antipyretic medicines or accompanying measures. Sometimes, alas, you develop an infection; It can be prevented by antibiotics, which are prescribed by doctors according to clinical criteria to avoid bronchial overinfections. Finally, you can contract one of these terrible serious forms related to covid -19 that make the lungs fill with an inflammatory fluid magma. It can go very fast. When the lungs are full, they can no longer stretch properly; You choke, and you are forced to gradually give oxygen by means of an oxygen bezel. When oxygen requirements are greater, as is the case for a few patients in Polynesia, the so-called high-dose oxygen, Oxyflow, is used; When, in spite of this, your lungs are so full of liquid that they can no longer extend at all, you are obliged to put a tube in the tracheal – it is the orotracheal intubation – to save your life, or at least to do as much as possible, while waiting for inflammation to be absorbed. Is there an antiviral molecule that has shown its effectiveness against covid-19 to limit the risk of serious form? No. Are there treatments currently being researched or already developed, available in France and Polynesia, to limit the risks of accentuation of serious forms in some audiences? Yes, including monoclonal antibody treatments; There are several types, which sometimes reduce the risk of contracting a serious form by 20%, 30% or even 40%. Cortisone treatments are also used for patients with high inflamed lungs and anticoagulants to avoid thromboembolic complications. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] Don't worry, doctors know how to treat the disease. What we can't do is get rid of the virus when it's there. On the other hand, we know a way to avoid catching it: it is, as you said yourself, and I thank you, vaccination.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u193	Mr Moetai Brotherson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u194	Thank you for that clarification, Minister. However, information work should be carried out on the medical profession in Polynesia, as local doctors are often distraught...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u195	They know!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u196	... and the bell sounds coming from the public authorities are a little dissonant.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u197	Saying this is not responsible. There's only one bell sound.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u198	Mrs Cécile Rilhac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u199	My question is to the Minister responsible for sports. I associate my colleague Stéphane Testé. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] After a summer under the sign of sport and competition, the Tokyo games are officially finished. Last Sunday was the closing ceremony of the Paralympic Games; This is an opportunity to pay tribute to the good performance of our delegation. Fifty-four: this is the number of medals reported by our athletes, a performance even better than that of the Rio Games in 2016. I would like to congratulate the athletes, as well as all the teams who have accompanied and supported them tirelessly over the past few weeks. I have a special thought for Timothy Adolphe and his guide, Bruno Naprix, residents of the Plessis-Bouchard, in my constituency, and for their silver medal over 100 meters in the T11 category. From now on, it is France's turn to organise the next Games in 2024. The results of our athletes must not only make us proud, but also encourage us to further develop sport for all by offering accessible activities. Currently, 48 per cent of persons with disabilities do not engage in physical or sporting activity, compared with 34 per cent in the general population. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] The President of the Republic has chosen to make disability one of the priorities of his quinquennium; As a result, it has engaged the Government in the development of reforms and strategies for a more inclusive society. In sport, inclusion translates into the possibility for everyone to engage in physical or sporting activity of their choice; This is the meaning of the great national strategy for sport and disability that you share with Sophie Cluzel, which includes several measures to develop the practice of parasport. Deputy Minister, I know your experience and your commitment to sport for all. Less than three years from the Paris Games, how can we continue our sports inclusion policy?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u200	The Minister for Sport has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u201	Thank you, Member, for bringing the parasport to light in this House. It has been highlighted in an exceptional way during the last fifteen days thanks to the results of our extraordinary athletes and thanks to an unprecedented media coverage. Sophie Cluzel and I know that there are two essential conditions to achieve the sports inclusion you are talking about: to value the sports paths, but also the life paths of our champions to show that sport helps overcome accidents of life, to live better with its body and to develop self-confidence; To further democratize access to sport and, above all, to parasport through this visible high-level success goal, which was achieved or surpassed at the Tokyo Paralympic Games. This also involves additional means dedicated to the parasport. Between 2017 and 2021, the means of high performance Paralympics were multiplied by 2.5 in my department's budget, from 2.9 million to 7.3 million for parasport for all. This money has mostly funded additional human resources. Within the Paralympic Committee, there are now thirteen additional full-time employees – one per region – to work on linking actors, families, schools, clubs, centres, social and medico-social institutions and communities. Within the federations, we have increased the number of development agents in the field of parasport. Their mission is to draw up a suitable offer for each sport, to offer it to nursery and primary schools, to teachers of EPS, as well as to clubs to raise awareness of disability through these inclusive practices. Of course, there is also the issue of accessibility, that of sports facilities that we finance, provided that they are accessible and that priority is given to renovating their access to persons with disabilities. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] There is still access to sport and parasport for children and families. The pass'sport, a central measure of this sport year, is aimed at young people with disabilities, such as the two digital platforms we have just launched, "the right sport for me" and the mandiguide, to enable every citizen to find the right discipline near him or her, as well as a sports offer adapted to the mental and physical handicap.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u202	Mrs Nathalie Porte has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u203	Prime Minister, the milk producers and cheese processors in Normandy are very concerned: the Camembert, one of the French' favourite cheeses, one of the flagships of our agri-food export industry, is experiencing difficult times. There has long been a disagreement between, on the one hand, the producers of camemberts of Normandy, holders of the AOP label – protected designation of origin – who respect a demanding specification, and, on the other hand, the producers of camemberts made in Normandy, most often with milk produced in Normandy but without these constraints. From this historical disagreement was born, something rare enough to be stressed, a consensus among all the actors of the Camembert to change the specifications of the PDO in order to draw the whole industry upwards.) For obscure and regrettable reasons, the National Institute of Origin and Quality, INAO, which had first accompanied the process, then opposed it. Since then, the services of the Directorate-General for Competition, Consumer Affairs and Fraud Prevention – DGCCRF – have multiplied the initiatives to destabilize the sector, hunting all the mentions recalling the link with Normandy on the labels of non-AOP camemberts, until the origin of the milk, threatening sanctions all processors who would not quickly change their labels. Ladies and gentlemen, imagine that one day your local producers will no longer be able to use this link to the terroir, which helps to identify agricultural production! [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Prime Minister, you have at your side a minister of agriculture who bears the name of our beautiful region – it would be a shame to lose him! –, do you prefer to leave to the cheesemakers of Germany, Poland, even further, the possibility of exporting to France camemberts without allowing Norman cheesemakers to assert the place of production of their cheeses? Do you have a real political will to promote the economic activity of our territories or do you leave the field open to controllers, electrons free from your administration?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u204	Long live the Camembert!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u205	The next speaker is the Minister for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u206	Since 1996, the name "camembert de Normandie" has been registered as a protected designation of origin. Since that date, the association of the terms "camembert" and "Normandie" has been protected on European territory, where it can only refer to products strictly complying with the criteria of the PDO specification. However, the mention "camembert made in Normandy" continued to be used on the labelling of camemberts that do not fully meet the criteria of the PDO – which are not, for example, made from raw milk. This status quo was maintained until 2020 by the French authorities, in the hope of creating a realistic solution to reconcile the protection of the PDO with the possibility for the producers of camemberts established in Normandy to value this origin. Unfortunately, these efforts were unsuccessful, since on 1 July 2020, the National Committee responsible for INAO endorsed the failure of the project to extend the specifications to the camembert manufactured in Normandy.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u207	That's too bad!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u208	To take this decision into account, two opinions were published on 9 July 2020 by the ministries of agriculture and the economy to clarify to the operators the rules of protection of the AOP "Camembert de Normandie". These opinions point out that the mention "made in Normandy" is not possible when the cheese does not meet the specifications of the PDO; They also point out that the labelling of products must not mislead the consumer or usurp official quality signs such as protected designations of origin.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u209	He progressed in reading during the holidays!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u210	These notices indicated to operators that they had a deadline of 31 December 2020 to bring their labelling into line. Currently, controls are being carried out to enforce these opinions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u211	Mrs Nathalie Porte has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u212	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Mr Sébastien Jumel also applauds]] These controls and sanctions will destroy hundreds of jobs in Normandy farms and cheese factories. You will find in front of you those elected who disagree.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u213	Mr Gérard Leseul, who is particularly well-appointed to put the third question of the Socialist Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u214	Plus 5.7% in March, plus 1.1% in May, plus 4.4% in June, plus 9.96 % in July, plus 5.3% in August, plus 9% this month: since January 1, 2019, Minister of Green Transition, regulated gas tariffs have increased by 15.8%, and this is not over since a further increase of more than 5% is expected in October. There is not only the rising price of gas, but also that of electricity: plus 1.6% in February, plus 0.91% in August and between 7% and 8% of the expected increase in regulated electricity tariffs in February 2022. Almost all households are affected by these two major increases, which are soon to be joined by that of fuels, even though the partial unemployment benefit decreases, from 70 % to 60 % of gross earnings for the most part of employees since 1 July and for all from 1 September. The employment and purchasing power of employees are likely to be a blow, and therefore consumption and recovery as well. The level of housing subsidies has also declined since 1 January as a result of a reform of their calculation method. Let's add to that an increase in the regulated troubleshooting rates and I doubtless forget many other costs which, cumulatively, end up weighing heavily. It seems to me, Madam Minister, that the question of increasing the various tariffs and the erosion of purchasing power is to be monitored like milk on fire and that this milk is beginning to boil. Urgent action is needed to limit the impact of these increases on the most vulnerable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u215	Other than that, it's all right! The French are happy!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u216	[[Mr. André Chassaigne applauds]] What do you intend to do to prevent the saucepan from overflowing or worse, does it explode again? What is the status of the discussions with Bercy in order, according to the press, to help the most precarious households to cope with their burdens, especially those resulting from the increase in energy prices?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u217	The Minister for Environmental Transition has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u218	You are right, honourable Member, that gas prices in international markets have been rising steadily over the last few months, and this increase has been accelerating since this summer, particularly because of the recovery in economic activity around the world, which has an impact on regulated gas tariffs, which affect three million households. The successive increases we have seen since July will unfortunately continue until October. Price stabilization can be expected from November or December before a reflux in the spring of 2022. Unfortunately this phenomenon also concerns electricity tariffs, which are rising sharply in the wholesale market, which could have an impact on the regulated tariffs around February next. Here's the picture. In the face of this, what is absolutely necessary is first of all to make people less dependent on increases, by taking structural measures to reduce their bills. The first is about building: it's about helping people make their homes less electricity or gas-efficient. This is what we do with MaPrimeRenov'and we will accelerate this policy with the "climate and resilience" law, which will help households to renovate their homes to reduce their energy bills. But we must act quickly because this bill is now increasing and from this point of view the utility of the energy check is becoming more and more obvious. The number of beneficiaries has increased from 3.6 million to 5.8 million since the beginning of the quinquennium and its average amount has increased by 50 euros to reach 150 euros today. We will continue to monitor this closely because it is out of the question that households suffer the consequences of increases linked, I would remind you, to the increase in fossil fuels. It must also encourage us to reduce our dependence on them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u219	We have completed the questions to the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u220	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u221	[[The sitting was suspended at 16.55 p.m. and resumed at 17.05 p.m. with Mr Marc Le Fur in the chair.]]
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u222	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u223	The President of the National Assembly took note of the termination of the term of office of deputy of Mr. Stéphane Baudu on July 27 at midnight and of Mr. Gabriel Serville on August 1 at midnight. The Minister of the Interior informed the President of the replacement of Mr Serville by his alternate, Ms. Carine Sinai Bossou, who immediately informed him that she was resigning her term as a Member of Parliament. In addition, several Members having resigned to the President, the Minister of the Interior informed him of their replacement by their alternates: Mr Martial Saddier by Mrs Christelle Petex-Levet, Mr Arnaud Viala by Mr Sébastien David and Mr Jean-François Parigi by Mr Bernadette Beauvais. Ms. Beauvais informed the Chair that, as of August 25, 2021, she was relinquishing her term as a Member of Parliament. Finally, the President noted the resignation of Mr Mustapha Laabid in today's Official Journal.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u224	The next item is the debate on the draft law authorizing the extension of the state of emergency in the overseas countries and territories (No 4428, 4432). The next speaker is the Minister for Overseas Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u225	France is facing, overseas, the worst health crisis since the arrival of the covid-19 epidemic on the national territory. With the delta variant, more contagious, in the West Indies and French Polynesia in particular, the figures exceed all the records reached in France hexagonal for the last year and a half, with incidence rates higher, at the peak of the epidemic, to 1000 cases per 100,000 inhabitants in Martinique, 2000 in Guadeloupe, and even 4000 in the islands Sous-le-Vent, in French Polynesia. Behind these figures, there are people who are sick of the covid, some in resuscitation, some who will take months to recover and some who will not recover. There are more and more young people, bereaved families who have lost one or more relatives, caregivers, on site and in support, experienced by this epidemic, which has lasted for more than 18 months, firefighters and volunteers who help where they can. I want to thank all our compatriots who are fighting the virus overseas, the caregivers, the testers, those who are vaccinating, the police who are enforcing the braking measures on the public road and in public spaces. I want to salute their courage and self-denial, which we all know. We owe them so much! This situation, which is dramatic in some overseas territories, must first be looked at in the face. This tragedy of our overseas fellow citizens calls for all the energy of the Government and the services of the State. We are constantly following the evolution of the epidemic. The violence with which the West Indies and French Polynesia were and continue to be affected during the summer required strong braking measures, adapted to the specificities of the epidemic and the territory, as well as the call for national solidarity, with the dispatch of unprecedented numbers of volunteers and materials. Two thousand caregivers responded to the call for mobilization launched by my colleague Olivier Véran on August 8th and reiterated on August 29th. It is an exceptional movement of solidarity that has been expressed and I would like to thank all the staff who volunteered. Let me therefore briefly report on the current situation in each of the Overseas Territories, starting with the most affected. In Martinique, first of all, a state of health emergency was declared on 13 July last, with curfew measures which were tightened in July and the introduction of a containment measure from 29 July, reinforced on 9 August. The school year has been postponed to 13 September. Strict curfew and containment measures were renewed until 19 September. The indicators are starting to decline, but the incidence rate remains at a very high level, at 438 cases per 100,000 inhabitants. Unfortunately, the number of hospitalized people is not decreasing, with 124 still in critical care in the hospital. None of these hospitalized patients have a complete vaccination schedule. Guadeloupe, Saint-Martin and Saint-Barthélemy were declared in a state of emergency on 29 July, which allowed curfew measures to be put in place and, for Guadeloupe, a containment measure since 5 August, reinforced on 13 August. The school year has also been postponed to 13 September. The incidence rate remains very high in Guadeloupe, with 581 cases per 100,000 inhabitants, and hospital facilities remain under very high pressure from covid, with 69 people hospitalized in critical care and a dynamic of admissions that does not weaken. Of all those hospitalized in resuscitation, more than 95% are not vaccinated. This also justifies the extension of containment and curfew measures until 19 September. National solidarity plays a full part: 388 reinforcements from the health reserve and from national solidarity were deployed in the West Indies as early as 10 August to support the teams of the CHU of Martinique and the CHU of Guadeloupe. A second rotation took place on 20 August with 457 volunteers, a third on 28 August with 213 volunteers and a fourth on 1 September with 430 volunteers. On the islands of the North, Saint-Martin and Saint-Barthélemy, the situation is improving more clearly, which allowed the Prefect Delegate to announce relaxations of curfew hours, but we must remain particularly vigilant because, as you know, these two islands benefit from the support of the hospital structures of Guadeloupe for critical care. It was therefore essential to maintain braking measures in those territories in order to avoid any further epidemics and medical evacuations that would further increase the burden on the Guadeloupian hospital services. In French Polynesia, at the peak of the epidemic, an unprecedented incidence rate was reached: more than 2860 cases per 100,000 inhabitants, more than ten times the average incidence rate in Hexagon. This inevitably results in an increase in the number of hospitalizations: 362 people are hospitalized today, 46 of whom are in resuscitation. Again, 95% of those hospitalized do not have a full vaccination schedule. In the face of this situation, national solidarity is also at work, with an organization of expertise specific to Pacific communities. Since 15 August, 230 medical and civil security personnel have been sent from Hexagon in French Polynesia. The call for volunteers remains relevant to continue to increase hospital capacity and to support highly mobilized caregivers. To stop this crisis, we must stop the contamination. The declaration of a state of health emergency was taken by the Government on 12 August, which enabled the High Commissioner of the Republic to put in place a first curfew measure by that date. In connection with the French Polynesian government, braking measures were taken on Monday, 23 August, with a strengthening of the curfew and the introduction of containment on the affected islands. These efforts that we are asking the public with the government of Édouard Fritch are not yet having their effects in hospital. It is therefore imperative to be able to extend them. I recall that, without the passage of this bill, the state of health emergency will end on September 11 in French Polynesia. In Guyana, epidemiological indicators are increasing less than in previous weeks, even if they remain very high, and the hospital impact, at this stage, is still contained. However, the immunization coverage rate remains very low. In order to curb the rise in indicators, braking measures were reinforced as early as 20 August: curfews from 7 p.m. to 5 p.m. on weekdays and weekends, and confinement in the so-called "red" zone, where the variant is most active. Again, the impact on the hospital is still contained, but Guyana is still facing its fourth epidemic wave. National reinforcements are being deployed to support health workers affected by the epidemic: 20 reservists and five identified professionals. The school year was postponed to 13 September in the Red Zone. In La Réunion, the first effects of the prefect's braking measures at the end of July are visible: hospital and epidemiological indicators are falling for the second consecutive week, despite the active and majority circulation of the delta variant. The prefect announced the relaxation of the braking measures from Monday, when confinement will be limited to weekends and travel 10 kilometres from home, curfew from 9 p.m. to 5 p.m. on weekdays and from 7 p.m. to 5 p.m. on weekends. These measures will remain in force until at least 5 September. In the hospital, the number of beds occupied by patients with covid -19 gradually decreases, but extreme vigilance remains to be done because the occupancy rate of beds remains high. In Mayotte, although the indicators for the circulation of the virus remain low, there is, however, a clear and worrying increase in the circulation of the delta variant; a new epidemic wave is to be feared in the coming weeks. It must be anticipated, especially in view of low vaccination coverage. As a result, unfortunately, I must tell you that the Prefect will be taking strong braking measures this week. In New Caledonia, only seven cases of covid-19 were recorded in this territory until then known as "covid free" – without covid. As early as Monday evening, the High Commissioner and the president of the college government announced the introduction of strict confinement for 15 days. The state of health emergency will be declared tomorrow by a decree in the Council of Ministers. It should be recalled that only 31 per cent of Caledonians received at least one dose of vaccine. The re-emergence of the virus in the archipelago demonstrates the need to remain vigilant and predictable. It is foreseen, for example, that if a state of emergency is declared before 15 October in an ultramarine territory where it does not yet apply, it will remain in force until 15 November; Regrettably, this measure has its full meaning and is even more legitimate in Wallis-et-Futuna, which shares a health bubble with New Caledonia and where vaccination is unfortunately at an even too low level. So we are caught up in the news and we need to react urgently. That is why I would like to propose that you adopt an amendment to bring New Caledonia into the group of territories under a state of emergency, even though it is, in the original draft law, a territory in which the Government "could" trigger the state of emergency. Despite the unwavering mobilization of health-care personnel, the human and material reinforcements and the numerous medical evacuations, nearly 1500 of our compatriots have lost their lives in the hospital since the 1st of July in the aftermath of the overseas covid-19. In addition to these hospital deaths, home-based deaths must be added. The human balance is therefore particularly heavy. In the face of this dramatic situation, we must be able to mobilise all legal tools to reduce the circulation of the virus and thus to reduce hospital tension, in particular curfew and containment measures that can only be taken in the context of the state of health emergency. That is all the meaning of this bill. These measures already produce tangible effects, notably in La Réunion, Martinique and Guadeloupe; It is imperative to be able to extend them. The bill is therefore intended to extend the state of emergency in all these territories until 15 November, the deadline set out in the Act of 5 August 2021. Currently, the state of health emergency is applicable in the West Indies, Guyana and La Réunion until 30 September; in French Polynesia, it will expire on 11 September. The bill also provides that, if a state of emergency is declared in another ultramarine territory before 15 October, it will apply until 15 November without the need for a new law. Indeed, in these territories, we must remain vigilant about the possibility of an accidental introduction of the virus – for example, your rapporteur will present an amendment relating to Saint-Pierre-et-Miquelon. In short, the bill allows for rapid action and strong measures to contain the spread of the virus in territories that remain fragile due to their remoteness and inadequate immunization coverage. I would point out that the extension by law of the state of emergency until 15 November does not mean that the state of emergency will necessarily last until that date in all the territories concerned. If braking measures and vaccination result in a significant improvement in the health and hospital situation in one or more territories, it is quite logical that the prefect(s) concerned will gradually reduce the braking measures and that the Government will be able to put an end to the state of emergency by decree, as has already been done. This is, of course, what we want to do as quickly as possible, because it is not a gait of heart that we are taking measures to restrict freedoms; It is because they are often indispensable to save lives. Be assured, ladies and gentlemen, that, as since the beginning of the health crisis, the measures will be territorialized and adapted to the circulation of the virus and to hospital pressure in each territory. The State is there and mobilizes all the means at its disposal. There was no hesitation in his response: the Government has deployed all the means in its possession to protect our compatriots. The regional health agencies have allowed an unprecedented rise in the health system at the local and zonal level: white plans, reminders of staff, calls for the mobilization of staff on leave, assignment of professionals, requisitions of interns, and so on. Similarly, national solidarity has played its full part with the strengthening of the hospital system at national level, the mobilization of the health reserve and the element of resuscitation of the army health service and a system of requisitions – more or less voluntary. In times of crisis, the number of resuscitation beds was multiplied by two to five depending on the territory. In Guadeloupe, for example, the capacity for critical care has already increased by 290%: whereas there were originally only 33 beds available, at present there are 129. A total of 2000 professionals were sent to overseas, with an intermediate rotation on 9 September and a reinforcement on 15 September. Material resources were sent without delay to each of the territories, including those where health no longer falls within the competence of the State. More than 10,000 swabs, 600,000 antigenic tests, 30,000 self-tests and 50,000 blouses have been sent to French Polynesia since 16 August, as well as thirty-two oxygen concentrators to strengthen the country's hospital capacity, and other equipment or consumables will be sent according to the requests of the Polynesian authorities. Thanks to national solidarity, ultramarine patients, including Antillean patients, have also been accommodated in hospitals in Hexagon: 94 medical evacuations have been organised since the beginning of the fourth wave and the Ministry of Solidarity and Health will continue to do so in the light of the health situation. The following comparison will allow the national representation to grasp the scale of the means deployed: at the height of the first wave of the epidemic, in March 2020, 350 reinforcements had been dispatched to the Greater East region, while more than 1,700 professionals visited the West Indies or were still there to support hospital teams. National solidarity also supports the economic sectors affected by braking measures, including hotels, catering and air transport. We recently announced the continuation in September of the Solidarity Fund in the overseas countries under the same conditions as in August; its retention in October could be considered in the light of the health situation. Anywhere else, the fixed cost scheme will take over from the Solidarity Fund and the threshold of EUR 1 million in turnover to benefit from it will be removed. We will continue to protect the local economic fabric as we have since the beginning of the crisis. In addition, in all the territories subject to the state of emergency, we have allowed companies in the hotel, catering and tourism sectors in the broadest sense to receive compensation twice as much as in the rest of France, i.e. 40% instead of 20% of the loss of turnover. Similarly, we have allowed very small companies affected by the confinement to continue to receive the EUR 1500 base amount under the Solidarity Fund, whereas this scheme was abolished in Hexagon in June. Throughout the crisis, we have therefore adapted the support tools to the needs of the ultramarine territories and now their situation again requires differential treatment. We share this analysis with the economic actors with whom we are in regular contact. In recent weeks, the federations of ultramarine companies have transmitted to the Government and, as I know, to parliamentarians, new proposals that my Ministry and the Ministry of Economy have studied. To meet these demands, we will make further adjustments to the Solidarity Fund, which will benefit businesses in our territories. Thus, it was necessary to have benefited from the Solidarity Fund in April or May 2021 to receive aid from the Tourism Solidarity Fund during the summer; This condition will be extended since it will now be necessary to have benefited from the fund for at least one month in the first half of 2021. In addition, companies will be able to file their applications for June and July until 31 October, whereas so far the deadline was two months after the expiry of the period concerned. Younger companies, created before 31 January 2021, can now benefit from the Solidarity Fund – this was an important demand – and the methods of calculating the reference turnover have been constantly adjusted since March 2020 to deal with all cases. Specific schemes allow new or renewed undertakings to be taken into account. Finally, the tourism solidarity fund as it has been adapted – the amount of the support going from 20% to 40% of the losses, as I said – will be accessible from 20 days of state of emergency health and containment or curfew measures in August, which will make it possible to better support Polynesian companies in this crucial sector. These are some examples of our ongoing dialogue with the economic actors in the territories. I have taken note of the questions relating to the processing times for applications concerning the Solidarity Fund addressed to me; I will therefore ask the Prefects to step up their efforts to support businesses, by regularly bringing together local committees devoted to the difficulties of the economic fabric and the mobilisation of support mechanisms. As agreed with the presidents of the business federations, we are preparing a vade-mecum on this subject for the services of the State, in particular the public finance directorates. On the other hand, the momentum of the recovery plan will have to be intensified in the territories affected by the new epidemic wave; Here again, the prefects will make a new complete point with the different actors. There is also the preparation of a plan for the recovery and transformation of tourism, of which we know the importance for the overseas countries and territories. Clearly, you see us fully mobilized. France has been able to support its economy in the overseas regions as well as in the Hexagon region. Despite the violence of the crisis, there has been neither a wave of bankruptcies nor a wave of unemployment – not all countries can say the same – and we will continue to do so. I conclude with a word about vaccination. The containment and curfew measures we have taken to curb the circulation of the virus provide only a short-term response, which has a significant economic and especially social cost. In the long term, vaccination is our main shield against possible future waves. I repeat and assume that we have entered an epidemic of unvaccinated people. In France, 87 per cent of those admitted to critical care and 83 per cent of those hospitalized in conventional services are not vaccinated. The statistical office of the social ministries estimated that 82 per cent of people who died of covid-19 were not vaccinated, compared with 14 per cent who were completely vaccinated. Recall that an individual who has received two doses of vaccine is ten times less likely to be infected without knowing it than an unvaccinated person. [[Protests on the benches of the FI group]] However, it must be noted that vaccination abroad is more difficult than in Hexagon. This is the only factor that explains the dramatic difference between the health situation of Hexagon on the one hand and that of the West Indies and Polynesia on the other. Despite the dispatch in January of large doses of vaccine in each of the overseas territories – more than 2.3 million, I would remind you – despite the opening of the vaccination centres and the so-called "go-to" operations, despite the communication campaigns in regional languages, the rate of vaccination is still too low. In Guadeloupe, 31 per cent of the population received at least one dose and 19 per cent had a complete vaccination schedule; The situation is similar in Martinique, where 30% of the inhabitants received their first dose and 21% both. These rates are only 25 per cent and 18 per cent respectively in Guyana. In the Indian Ocean, the situation is more mixed: 52 per cent of Reunions received a first dose compared to 34 per cent of Mahorais. Finally, 50% of Polynesians received one injection and 38% received two injections. More than a lack of membership, it is a real mistrust, particularly in the West Indies and Guyana, where false information endangers the lives of our compatriots. Unfortunately, the vaccine has become a political issue for some. That is why I call on all politicians, well-known and well-known personalities, artists, athletes and others, to converge to advocate vaccination for the benefit of all our ultramarine fellow citizens. Let us all work together to advance vaccination. The State will continue to act by explaining and doing pedagogy. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM, Activité ens and IDU-I groups]] In the face of the dramatic health situation in our territories and the human tragedies involved, the responsibility of the State is to protect our fellow citizens, especially in territories where vaccination coverage remains too low. The state of health emergency has been designed in this sense. It has proved its worth throughout the national territory during the previous waves and bears its first fruit in the overseas territories, but the situation is still too dangerous to put an end to it. We must act quickly to ensure that containment and curfew measures are maintained, the only effective solution to break the virus's circulation and the epidemic wave; That is the meaning of the bill that the Government is presenting to you.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u226	Mr Jean-Pierre Pont, rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u227	As we closed the special session in July on Sunday 25 July, we meet again to open the September session with the ninth text on the management of the health crisis examined in a year and a half. In the fall of 2021, France faced the persistence of the covid-19 epidemic, particularly since the beginning of the summer, with a fourth wave carried by the virulence of the delta variant. This new wave has once again put our country and our hospital system to the test. To confront it, we have been able to rely on the two main pillars of our health strategy: the massive – and successful – deployment of vaccination and the timely extension of the perimeter of the health pass, both allowed by the adoption of the law of 5 August 2021. Although, despite a situation that remains fragile and calls for caution, optimism can be of general concern, there is still a great deal of concern in most of the overseas territories. They are faced with a health situation that is everywhere worrying, if not dramatic, in some territories, with rates of incidence that have never been reached, but also with saturation of hospital capacities and mortality that remind us that covid-19 kills, and continues to kill – mainly non-vaccinated people. I am thinking in particular of French Polynesia, where the situation is unprecedented: the incidence rate there is more than 3000 new cases per 100,000 inhabitants, and even close to 4000 in the Sous-le-Vent Islands. Hospitals are saturated. In Guadeloupe, the situation is beginning to improve, but it remains very degraded: the incidence rate remains above 1000 and the occupancy rate of the resuscitation beds is 92%. I will also mention Guyana, where the situation is deteriorating again because of the increase in the circulation of the delta variant throughout the territory: the incidence rate was up by 16 per cent last week. While this situation is justified by structural reasons which make these territories particularly vulnerable to the epidemic, as the Scientific Council pointed out in its opinion of 29 August, it is also, unfortunately, due to a slower increase in vaccination than elsewhere. Beyond our sincere thoughts which accompany the bereaved families, the mobilized healthcare staff and the public authorities that are at work, the extension of the state of emergency health in Guadeloupe, Guyana, La Réunion, Martinique, French Polynesia, Saint-Barthélemy and Saint-Martin must above all be accompanied by an indispensable continuation of the exceptional efforts that are being made in favour of these territories. National solidarity has enabled unprecedented mobilization of health workers. Since 10 August, four aerial rotations have been introduced in favour of the West Indies and French Polynesia, allowing the mobilization of more than 1600 reinforcements of nursing staff. At the same time, efforts were increased to organize a large number of medical evacuations: as at 31 August, sixty-seven patients had been evacuated to the metropolis. From an economic point of view, I am pleased to note that the partial activity compensation scheme and the two solidarity funds for companies have been renewed and strengthened in the ultramarine territories. Although more technical in scope, the bill we are considering today, passed without amendment by the Law Commission last Friday, is essential to allow the continuation, until 15 November, of the measures necessary to combat the epidemic, which are permitted by the state of health emergency regime where it is already in force. This is in particular the case of French Polynesia, where the state of emergency was declared on 11 August: it is in order to allow its indispensable extension beyond 11 September that we meet to legislate within forced deadlines. Contrary to the regime of exit from crisis provided for by the law of 31 May, the state of emergency – and only it – allows the taking of measures limiting the movement of people out of their homes, as is the case today in all the above-mentioned territories – Guadeloupe, Guyana, Réunion, Martinique, French Polynesia – all of which are experiencing a curfew and a sometimes differentiated confinement, more or less strict. These measures are difficult and challenging, but they are the only ones able to protect the health of populations. The proposed extension is justified by the health situation in the territories concerned and by the need to maintain a rapid and reactive response instrument to an unpredictable virus. It is also proportionate, since it is planned for a month and a half. The date of 15 November 2021 corresponds, moreover, to the deadline set, at national level, for the regime for the management of the health crisis which we adopted by the law of 31 May 2021 and extended by the law of 5 August 2021. It has also been validated by the Council of State and the Scientific Council. The single article of the bill also extends, until 15 October 2021, the derogation from the declaration of a state of health emergency, applicable to Mayotte since the law of 5 August last. If it is decreed before that date, the state of health emergency will also be in force until 15 November 2021. Although the incidence rate in this territory is the lowest at the national level, it has nevertheless increased by almost 50% over the last seven days. The situation is also beginning to cause concern in New Caledonia: New Caledonia is recovering, so we must draw the consequences. The same applies to the Wallis and Futuna Islands, which have an air link with New Caledonia. On the other hand, the situation is under control in Saint-Pierre-et-Miquelon, and the extension of the derogation is not justified: I will propose an amendment to that effect. Once again, the date of 15 November 2021 is a time frame consistent with the prospect of the referral to Parliament next autumn of a bill which will allow to define, according to the evolution of the health situation, the appropriate legal framework to continue the measures necessary to combat the epidemic, both in metropolitan France and overseas. Until then, I know that our ultramarine compatriots legitimately expect strong support from the state. I hope that our debates today, in the presence of the Minister for Overseas Affairs, will help to comfort them. As such, I know, Minister, that there is a strong expectation for the adaptation of the information systems introduced on the basis of the law of 11 May 2020, so that they are made applicable – particularly in French Polynesia – and strengthen the mechanism for combating the epidemic. Indeed, the relevance and usefulness of these information systems are no longer to be demonstrated. Can you tell us, Minister, how the Government intends to proceed on this matter? [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group. – Ms. Yaël Braun-Pivet, Chair of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, also applauds]] The Senate, with whom we worked in good intelligence and in concert – I take this opportunity to salute my colleague Senator Philippe Bas – will be seized of this text quickly. I think we can hope, as the Overseas Territories expect, that it will be promulgated as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u228	I have received from Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon and from members of the La France group a motion to reject in advance pursuant to Rule 91(5) of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u229	We concluded that the motion to reject was the only way we could tell you our outrage at the situation in the French overseas, and the conditions that made it possible. We do not believe that the delta variant is the only cause – and perhaps not even the main cause – of the extraordinary rate of contamination in the territories we are talking about today. On the contrary, we believe that it was the social crash that made the health crash possible. In fact, we have already observed in Hexagon that the maps of poverty corresponded most often to the maps of contagion and death. This is the first time, since the beginning of our mandate, that a bill deals exclusively with overseas countries, considering them uniformly despite their obvious geographical differences and the natural conditions that separate them. Even the incidence rates of contamination vary, ranging from one to ten. To be even clearer, of the thirteen French departments where the incidence rate reaches the alarm threshold, only three are ultramarine. Yet they are being applied a particular decision: the possibility of re-establishing curfews and confinement. These are the only two measures in the bill that we will be debating, and it is precisely against this limit that we are taking action, proposing that you reject the text in order to require a comprehensive discussion that will allow us to take into account the overall reality of the overseas departments and territories. As we must know, passing this bill is once again part of an endless and meansless confinement. Whatever the development of the future, as long as the prevailing conditions do not change in the overseas world, it will worsen with each wave of contamination, with each variant. Of course, we must salute the effort of those who fight; Of course, it is remarkable that 2000 professionals have come in addition to those who were there – even if, let's not forget, they are taken from the posts that exist in Hexagon. The gesture, the attention, is worth the effort, and it is our duty, as parliamentarians, to recognize that the problems faced by the overseas countries are not reserved for the ultramarines: it is for the entire national community to take charge of them, to express them. It is for this reason that our group has decided that it will be its chairman who will speak on the subject, not another of its members – they will speak during the debate. The most important thing is to take stock of the situation in which our compatriots live. Guyana has been in a state of emergency since 17 October 2020: it was scheduled to end on 30 September, but is finally extended until 15 November. It is anticipated that it will also be declared in Mayotte, Saint-Pierre-et-Miquelon and Wallis-et-Futuna. And you have just announced, Minister, that it should also be established in New Caledonia. By force of things, as provided for in the Constitution, you will indeed have to consult the Congress of New Caledonia. We can therefore ask ourselves the question: why were all these measures taken without the sound of the voice of the local assemblies, without they having told us how they appreciated the reasons why the overseas countries and territories are in this situation? I don't blame the assemblies: to be a member of an assembly myself – this one – I know how it works! Finally, like the overseas compatriots, I depend each time on the decisions of the Health Defence Council and the President of the Republic – on himself. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] It cannot be said that the overseas situation and its worsening were not predictable. If I insist, that explains why we are so unhappy that, suddenly, we are emerging, constantly aggravating the state of containment and permanent curfew. We ourselves, the unsubs, had conducted a commission of inquiry at the end of the first confinement. In our report, a section was dedicated to overseas areas, in which we were warning of the possibility of a very serious health collapse in these territories. And if the expression of a political movement seems to you to be insufficient or, a priori, to be eliminated, note that in July 2020, the MEP insoubed Younous Omarjee, chairman of the European Parliament's Committee on Regional Development, had written directly to the Prime Minister to alert him and ask him for an emergency plan for the overseas countries. It is true that at the time, we were the only ones to announce the arrival of a third and a fourth wave, and that we were getting used to it. Then, in October 2020, the unsubstantiated Member of Parliament for La Réunion, Jean-Hugues Ratenon, wrote to the Minister for Overseas Affairs – you yourself, the minister – to alert him to the lack of medical personnel and the weakening of national solidarity – these are his words – with regard to the ultramarines. [[Same movements]] Let's go straight to the point: it is the social crash overseas that explains the extent of contamination and destruction of lives. As for the inadequacy of vaccination, we should first ask ourselves what it is due to, rather than pointing at the populations. I speak to you, I am vaccinated; I believe in the vaccine. I know the limits of it: it does not fully protect me. However, I have consciously chosen to receive and recommend it to those who ask me the question. I chose it for a simple, humble reason, a reason for being human that does not ignore the doubt: it greatly reduces the risks, so it is worth being administered. However, I do not claim to pronounce myself from a scientific, medical point of view. My political family has long ceased to have political ideas about this area! In terms of research, it is feasible; On the other hand, everyone is aware of the danger of asking politicians for an opinion on science. Perhaps I have a personal opinion, but I will not express it; Again, I only know that the vaccine reduces the danger and, with this rational argument, I try to convince those who question me. This does not mean that my colleagues or myself are giving up anything of our opposition to the health pass, that is to say, to measures to restrict freedoms. I'll tell you straight away: they're no use! You are not preparing us to face the aftermath of events! All the factors behind the pandemics remain. The chain of contamination which causes zoonoses to be transmitted by wild animals to domestic animals, and then by animals to humans, will only be broken if certain types of livestock are abandoned, as well as the destruction of natural habitats; In other words, the cause of such epidemics is not only viral, but also ecological and social. The contamination map coincides with that of poverty. In a considerable part of Guadeloupe as well as in Guyana, as in Mayotte, it is simply impossible to carry out certain barricades, for lack of running water!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u230	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u231	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] This applies not only to individuals, but sometimes to hospitals and other structures. What we need then is not to confine; It's coming with shovellers, digging holes, laying pipes, and let the water flow! Would France not be able to do so? Can't a state of emergency be decreed to resolve this issue radically once and for all? [[Caroline Fiat applauds]] I repeat, it is not by limiting the number of contaminations that we will be able to limit, on the contrary: the virus circulates even better in overcrowded homes. However, the Overseas Territories are a high place for this unacceptable phenomenon, including for all of us, which regularly witness it! These slums, these unworthy dwellings scandalize us every time images come to us or we see them on the spot. That's not it, France! France is able, in the event of an epidemic, to isolate the sick so that they do not contaminate their entourage, while respecting their personal dignity. In addition, there has been a long time in these overseas territories – which is why I recalled the warning we issued about this – a problem of medical sub-equipment. They are the worst medical deserts in France, the least well equipped with hospital beds! Mr Minister, you are announcing 130 beds for Guadeloupe, which until very recently had only 32 beds. I don't blame you personally, but the hospital in Nantes, with an equivalent population, has 200 beds! Why 200 beds here and 32 over there? If this last number rises to 130, so much the better; However, the scale of the crisis would require much more. [[Minister acquiesce]] I believe I have given enough examples to ensure that the situation has been well understood. Yes, there is a responsibility for political decision-making! You have described to us, no doubt objectively, the scale of the crisis, the efforts that it has been possible to make at the moment, the appeals to certain personnel. However, these measures do not affect any – I say none – of the structural causes of the pandemic in these territories. In case of degradation, there will be only one thing to do: re-defining, re-covering, returning to this unbearable way of life. [[Caroline Fiat applauds]] [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Finally, and again, Mr Minister, without your personal responsibility being involved, why do we not trust vaccination in Guadeloupe or Martinique? We've heard a galloned moron explain it on a television set by the belief of the Martiniques in voodoo; Fortunately, the channel, although innocent of this foolishness, has apologized, and I congratulate it. Then why? Because, in these same departments, chlordecone was still allowed to be used while its lethal effects were known everywhere else.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u232	Who was minister at the time?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u233	[[Same moves. – Protest by François Cormier-Bouligeon]] Since then, colleagues, whether we believe it or not, there has been a culture of distrust which must be defused by means of pedagogy, by means of going to people, by meeting them, as, for example, our Spanish colleagues, who have developed this method. Let us do the same, and let us stop giving in ideology where there is no need to do it! We French, we should be taking ourselves to the rescue of others, in particular those unfortunate Haitians to whom we are finally providing only a rather superficial aid, even though France will forever remain indebted to Haiti for what it has done to it in the past. It was only in 1982 that Haiti finished off offsetting the price of slaves who were not there! [[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] [[MM. Jacques Marilossian and Rémy Rebeyrotte protest]] Ladies and gentlemen, what I am saying right now deserves better than invectives. You can send me disdainful gestures: the inhabitants of the ultramarine territories see them and will recognize the authors of them. I am taking part in a debate; I try to make myself understood, to make myself heard, I expose the situation overseas. This is not acceptable. Ideology should not be mixed with how to combat the health crisis. In the Caribbean, France has neighbours with whom it can work, either to help them – for example Haiti – or to help each other – I am thinking here in Cuba. In the Indian Ocean, we have responsibilities to all nations that look at us, that question their future: Mayotte must be at the forefront of dealing with the radical problems that arise there. Whatever the political colour of the elected officials, we must help them with all our strength to resolve this crisis! If we succeed, we will have demonstrated to a whole continent what the methods and principles of the French Republic are worth.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u234	Long live the Republic!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u235	[[Applause on a few benches of the FI group]] We propose that we begin to build, where things go worst, the rolling society that will allow the change of access times, the society of the end of overcrowding, organizing the necessary separations methodically and proposing housing – because we are able to build them everywhere and at all speed! We need to organize understanding for vaccination. We need to install air purifiers, CO measuring devices in all classrooms.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u236	Just leave the windows open for 30 seconds!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u237	There more than anywhere else, France can! It's nothing to do!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u238	Thanks for closing.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u239	Fourteen minutes and fifty-nine seconds! You don't miss me, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u240	Fifteen minutes, now, Mr. Mélenchon.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u241	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Since I was entitled to a quarter of an hour's speech, I will conclude with these words: I urge you not to pass this bill so that another piece of legislation can be passed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u242	On the motion for a preliminary rejection, I am seized of a request for a public vote by the La France group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. For explanations of vote, I call Mrs Stephanie Atger.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u243	Before I go further in my remarks, I would like to convey my warm thoughts to the fully mobilized personnel and my thanks to the many reinforcements that have arrived in recent weeks, as well as my most affected thoughts to the families affected, even bereaved, by the virus. As we come together to consider the bill authorizing the extension of the state of health emergency in the overseas territories, and given the health situation in those territories, it would hardly be inappropriate to vote in favour of this motion to reject it beforehand. Although epidemiological indicators in the West Indies and French Polynesia appear to be the beginning of an improvement, incidence rates and the number of hospitalizations and deaths remain of great concern, if not dramatic. In order to protect populations, braking measures have been taken and must continue to apply, as long as vaccination campaigns bear fruit. While the efforts made are important, these measures are difficult to endure, they are the only effective means of halting the spread of the delta. Our conviction that they will enable us to get out of the crisis is all the greater because we are all aware of the harshness of the hardships that we are going through. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Constant in their frontal opposition, our colleagues in the La France insoumée group question, through their motion, a political and scientific consensus. Indeed, the Scientific Council and the Council of State agree to judge the measure contained in this bill – I quote the opinion of the Council of State – "justified by the existence and foreseeable persistence of the health catastrophe in each of these territories over the period running until 15 November 2021". For all these reasons, aware of its responsibility, the La République en marche group will vote against this motion of rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u244	Mr Olivier Becht has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u245	[[Protests on the benches of the FI group]] I didn't think I'd ever agree with Jean-Luc Mélenchon. However, he was right: in the field of health, drinking water, education and transport infrastructure, the overseas territories needed massive investment. Precisely, our majority has been doing this for more than four years now, including our Minister Sébastien Lecornu. [[Ms Caroline Fiat exclaimed]] I repeat, you are right: we must invest overseas. But what you're proposing tonight is not to invest, but to kill the bill! I'm sorry, but Mr Mélenchon, former local elected, knows very well that a water system is not being built in two days...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u246	And in four years?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u247	... and that it is not a water system that will stop the epidemic in Guadeloupe or Polynesia.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u248	We must conclude, Mr. Becht.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u249	[[Danièle Obono and Caroline Fiat laughs]] [[Applause on the banks of the Action ens, LaREM and Dem groups]] Let's not tell anything! This evening, by this motion for a preliminary rejection, you propose in practice to prevent the continuation of health measures overseas, i.e. to endanger our compatriots. This is particularly irresponsible. That is why we will vote against the motion to reject!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u250	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u251	In addition, the health crisis does not date from today, or even from yesterday. Its current intensity is due to decades of regression, an intolerable break in equality with Hexagon. In 2014, a report by the Court of Auditors already pointed to the alarming health situation overseas; In 2017, the National Advisory Commission on Human Rights (CNCDH) alerted us to health inequalities, pointing in particular to infant and prenatal mortality rates in Guadeloupe, as well as a higher than average prostate cancer rate. Guadeloupe, Martinique, Guyana are the territories most affected by medical underdensity. We've known it for decades, you've known it for more than four years and you haven't done anything! Worse, you have pursued the policies behind these disparities, accentuating the inequalities and vulnerability of the inhabitants. This is your direct responsibility. The bill to extend the state of health emergency in the overseas territories is not only unacceptable from the point of view of freedoms and rights, but intolerable by its contempt for people and territories who are systematically ill-treated. We oppose this text and oppose it with an alternative health strategy based on emergency measures, in particular on the establishment of a real policy of proximity, to "go towards", based on the tools of community health and those of health democracy – for example the immediate installation in all schools and in all theatres of show of CO sensors and air purifiers, mentioned by President Mélenchon. But this strategy must also involve the introduction of structural measures, such as the Sanctuary of Health in the Overseas Territories and investment in infrastructure sufficient to allow access to water. These measures, which we proposed through our amendments, you have swept them away. That is why we are proposing to reject this bill...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u252	We understand!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u253	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] ... and why we propose these measures again, which we will apply when we are in power.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u254	Mr Olivier Falorni has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u255	The Libertés et Territoires Group will not vote on this motion for a preliminary rejection for two reasons: firstly, because its adoption would prevent us from having a substantive debate on the health situation in the overseas territories, but also on their overall situation and on the dysfunctions which the health crisis shows; Then, because it is necessary to vote on this bill in order to respond to the urgency. This does not prevent us from reflecting on the worrying, if not sometimes disastrous, situation of hospitals in these territories, which must not fail to concern us: they lack human and material resources. There is also a mistrust of the word of the State that we must look at in the face. It is the result of a long history and linked in particular to the health scandal of chlordecone. [[Murmures on several benches of the LaREM group]] Finally – it is important for me to remind you – our group is campaigning for a pedagogy of vaccination. We must convince our overseas fellow citizens to be vaccinated without stigmatizing them, without taking them as savages who would not understand anything but by treating them as citizens capable of hearing a discourse of reason, provided that they are addressed with pedagogy. The word "pedagogy" is, I believe, the one that must prevail today in our debates.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u256	Mrs Maud Petit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u257	I express my support for the entire ultramarine population currently suffering and mourning their deaths every day, but also wish to express my support to the Government for the consideration of this text. The extension of the overseas state of emergency is not an anomalous decision, but the health situation in these territories makes it more than necessary. The rejection of the text, proposed by several of our colleagues, is irresponsible and dangerous.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u258	Of course! It's us who are irresponsible now!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u259	Even if they are difficult, the measures provided for by the state of emergency protect our citizens while allowing the deployment of vaccination. I want to believe that our ultramarine compatriots will eventually understand the seriousness of the situation and get vaccinated, thus demonstrating responsibility and fraternity in the fight against the virus. In July, I launched a cry from the heart on social networks, especially at the address of my island, Martinique. I repeat: vaccination is one of the most effective ways to curb the epidemic and, above all, to prevent the most serious forms of the disease and prevent death. To get out of this worrying health situation, we need everyone to be responsible. The faster you get vaccinated, the better protected you will be and the faster you will be able to regain a normal life situation. We know only too well, in fact, the adverse consequences of confinements, which we have been able to measure in the metropolis. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] So see: the Government takes into account the specificities of our overseas departments and territories and accompanies their populations, just as it does in metropolitan France. There is no differential treatment, but a united Republic. Our group will vote against the motion to reject.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u260	I thought we could proceed to the vote now, but Mr Gosselin has the floor, even if he shows up at the last moment!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u261	No, I had asked to speak in explanation of vote. But I don't blame you, Mr. President, you know that! I would like to say a few words on behalf of the Republican Group. The use of a state of health emergency can never be considered as a simple field trip. We have fought sufficiently for extensions that we consider to be abusive to allow ourselves to be simple and direct. Of course, the vote on this text is not a pleasure. I am also speaking to the ultramarine population – I should rather talk about the populations because of their diversity and that of the territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u262	Oh, yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u263	We cannot therefore speak of overseas: there are overseas territories, whose inventory was drawn up earlier by the minister – I will have the opportunity to return. The national community, the nation, is now looking with great compassion at these suffering territories and populations; There is no doubt about that. But to allow the motion of rejection proposed by our colleagues in the La France insoumée group would be to short-circuit a necessary debate and prevent measures which, unfortunately, are also, and which are, necessary in the light of the situation. Of course, these measures will have to be as brief as possible and framed – we will come back to them later. The state of health emergency is always a right of emergency, exorbitant to ordinary law. It cannot be regarded as the alpha and omega of the responses to a health crisis. There are other solutions, on which we shall return, but the rejection of this motion is necessary at this stage: its adoption would, I repeat, be to refuse the debate and put the people concerned at risk, which we cannot do.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u264	Mr Gérard Leseul has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u265	I share some of the observations made by our colleagues in the FI Group on the scandalously unsatisfactory overseas health and medical situation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u266	Of course you have no responsibility for this! Between 2012 and 2017, everything was going well in the overseas territories!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u267	[[Mr. Max Mathiasin applauds]] In fact, there are medical deserts in too many ultramarine territories, along with a shortage of liberal doctors and specialists, as well as an almost chronic sub-donation of hospitals – which I think we will talk about earlier. No university hospital is in a satisfactory position today and we cannot accept a sorting between the patients, as happened during the epidemic peak in Guadeloupe. We cannot accept the sorting of the sick, just as we cannot accept that equality, one of the republican promises, is not implemented everywhere in the territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u268	Whose fault?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u269	[[Mrs Justine Benin and Mr Maud Petit and Mr Max Mathiasin applaud]] The rejection of the text, proposed by our colleagues, unfortunately does not allow for the urgent response that we owe, in particular, to the populations and to all hospital and medical staff. On the other hand, we must also assume, perhaps more strongly than some do, the fact that vaccination is the first solution – I did not say the ultimate – and necessary in the first instance.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u270	I put to the vote the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u271	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 146 Number of votes cast 143 Absolute majority 72 For adoption 13 Against 130
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u272	In the general debate, Mr Guillaume Gouffier-Cha spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u273	Faced with the worrying level of the covid -19 pandemic, we find ourselves a ninth time to examine a text on the health crisis – in particular, today, to extend the state of health emergency until 15 November 2021 in the ultramarine territories. The text, consisting of a single article and specific to the overseas sector, addresses specific issues in the territories concerned. They have experienced real difficulties since the beginning of the summer: unlike the metropolis, they are indeed experiencing a particularly strong and difficult epidemic rebound, particularly in Martinique, French Guiana, Mayotte and French Polynesia. In view of the significant spread of the delta, its high contagiosity, the low rate of vaccination of the population and the high pressure on hospitals, the number of deaths has unfortunately increased steadily over the past several weeks. In the West Indies, despite a noticeable improvement, the situation remains complicated and worrying. In Martinique, admissions to critical care are maintained at a steady pace, with a resuscitation bed occupancy rate of more than 96%. In Guadeloupe, the number of patients entering the hospital for critical care is steadily increasing: it has grown by 18% in seven days. In La Réunion, hospital tension, although decreasing, remains high. In Mayotte, the covid-19 positivity rate now exceeds 3%. Over the past 10 days, several patients have been admitted to hospital or resuscitation for covid-19 infection, although this territory has not known such cases in months. Finally, in Polynesia, the situation has deteriorated considerably in recent weeks: 412 patients are currently hospitalized and their number in resuscitation is increasing every day. To respond to this emergency, seven territories are already in a state of health emergency. It shall apply until 30 September, except in French Polynesia where it expires on 12 September. This text also provides a legal framework in the event that the health situation in the other overseas territories deteriorates. It thus provides that, if the state of emergency is declared by decree before 15 October 2021 in Mayotte, Saint-Pierre-et-Miquelon, Wallis-et-Futuna or in New Caledonia, it will also expire on 15 November 2021. Several amendments will be made to the bill, in particular because of the establishment of a state of emergency in New Caledonia as soon as this week's Council of Ministers – as you mentioned, Minister. In view of the situation in Saint-Pierre-et-Miquelon, where vaccination coverage is more than 85% and the number of cases is low – thirty people infected and no deaths recorded to date – the rapporteur will also propose an amendment, worked with our colleagues in the Senate, to remove this territory from the list of those affected by this scheme. The extension of the state of health emergency is justified by the evolution of the pandemic in the ultramarine territories and by the need for an effective and usable tool quickly until 15 November. However, the only extension of the state of emergency will not suffice. It is necessary and essential to continue to apply the barrier gestures, to wear the mask as often as possible and to be vaccinated. Today, immunization coverage remains too low in the ultramarine territories: 31 per cent in Guadeloupe, 30 per cent in Martinique, 25 per cent in Guyana, 52 per cent in Réunion, 34 per cent in Mayotte, 31 per cent in New Caledonia, 50 per cent in Polynesia and 43 per cent in Wallis-et-Futuna. The campaign has yet to be accelerated. It must be said: the only solution is vaccination and we invite everyone in charge to call on the population to be vaccinated. Since the beginning of August, 2,000 metropolitan health personnel have also been mobilized and equipment has been delivered to the area as part of national solidarity. Since August 10, four rotations have been organized for the West Indies and French Polynesia, and health reservists have been sent last Saturday. I would like to acknowledge the exemplary commitment of all of these caregivers and the continued commitment of all of our health care workers mobilized overseas. Despite the application of exceptional health devices, the main challenge lies in the vaccination of populations, without which a fifth wave cannot be avoided – it must be repeated. That is the objective we must strive towards. The "go-to" operation has already affected more than one million people and the system will be strengthened in the ultramarine territories. In the meantime, we must accompany these territories as much as possible with the braking measures that have already proved their worth in the past. That is why we are extending the state of health emergency there. Economic support will also continue to be provided to enable recovery as soon as the situation is stabilized. In this regard, I welcome the renewal and strengthening of the partial activity compensation scheme and the solidarity funds. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Ladies and gentlemen, these measures are heavy, difficult, but will remain necessary for all the territories as long as the health crisis persists and, in particular, today, for the ultramarine territories, for the inhabitants of which we have special thought.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u274	Mr Philippe Gosselin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u275	Once again, we find ourselves on the subject of the state of health emergency and, rather symbolic, this text opens the special session. Unfortunately, this is no coincidence: while there seems to be some improvement here and there, the situation in the overseas territories is unfortunately not the same and justifies our work today. I naturally have, with the members of the Republicans group, a particular thought for the families affected and, more broadly, for all the populations whether or not they are directly affected, because in reality they are all concerned with what is happening today. Of course, I take a strong and caring look at caregivers who sometimes get involved in very delicate conditions, it must be said. In previous debates, Mr rapporteur, we had hoped for the introduction of re-visiting clauses, and we had stated that we would be at the meeting when it was necessary. We are therefore present, as we are likely to be on 23 and 24 October, for other texts concerning the state of emergency again and again. Parliament is on the table, and this is the least of all things in a democratic state, because resorting to a state of emergency, and then extending it, is never, at all times, annoyance. Some situations may impose legal decisions or some kind of reaction, but, once again, the state of emergency is an exorbitant right of ordinary law, which may be restrictive of fundamental rights and freedoms – which is very often the case – to be used only with parsimony and trembling hands. However, in this case, it seems to us that if the situation is serious, it is not yet desperate and we must strive to minimize the possible effects of the pandemic. That is what justifies this heavy, difficult decision that we must take today – our colleague from the running Republic Group has just used these terms – but we think it is necessary. Of course, there is not a uniform situation in the overseas territories, but different situations: therefore, it is not necessary to take identical decisions for the territories of the Pacific, for those of the West Indies, for Mayotte, for Guyana... We have already seen, moreover, in the case of Mayotte and Guyana, that we have been able to establish special regimes for some time because they were necessary. Moreover, for almost a year now, Guyana has been in a state of health emergency, which is very long – and it can be understood that the population is feeling a form of despair. But there are many basic reasons why we agree with the need to extend the state of health emergency for a limited period of time. The Government wished to align the date with that set out in the laws of 31 May and 5 August: the extension would therefore extend until 15 November at the latest. This time limit seems reasonable to us at this stage and, if necessary, the re-visit clause would apply in order for Parliament to discuss it again, in complete serenity and transparency. The Overseas Territories are governed by very different legal regimes and there are a wide range of situations to be taken into account, as the Minister pointed out. That is why we consider it necessary to extract from the scheme the territory of Saint-Pierre-et-Miquelon which, with 6,000 inhabitants, is not affected in the same proportions as other territories. That is why we could also take a special look at New Caledonia, the first territory of the Republic to have made vaccination compulsory and which, until now, was free of any covid – I prefer this formulation to that of covid free – but which, in recent days, has been caught up by the pandemic. So we need to adjust the devices and that's what we're following you, minister, through this bill. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group and a few benches of the Dem group. – Ms. Maina Sage also applauds]] But in particular you will have to act on economic matters. This is a request from the overseas delegation, but also from employers, employees and the Federation of Overseas Enterprises (FEDOM), chaired by Hervé Mariton. Pedagogy will also be required to support vaccination and to anticipate the outcome of the crisis. In short: pedagogy, realism, but also a lot of patience.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u276	Mrs Justine Benin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u277	The time is serious overseas. It is a serious time and, in Guadeloupe, we are experiencing an unprecedented situation: the incidence rate among our population had never been reached in France until now – up to 2000 people infected per 100,000 inhabitants; a significant number of hospitalizations affecting the entire health system; a dozen deaths every day, not counting the deaths at home; and serious cases that also affect the youngest. These figures are alarming and the seriousness of the situation is similar for our neighbours in Martinique or our compatriots in Polynesia. The first consequence of this strong epidemic recovery is the saturation of the health system. In Guadeloupe, hospitals have been facing a massive influx of patients for several weeks. All health professionals have set themselves in order to face this crisis day and night. The hospitals in Guadeloupe, both public and private, coordinated to double the number of beds, whether in medicine or in resuscitation. How do you want these valiant personnel, always standing, to understand the many criticisms that are emerging, while they save lives on a daily basis? [[Mr. Philippe Gosselin applauds]] I would like to pay tribute here to the constant and unwavering commitment of all the health workers in public and private hospitals, city doctors and liberal nurses, not to mention the hundreds of professionals from the health reserve who have come to our hard-hit territories. This health crisis is violent, its consequences for the daily lives of the population are numerous: important braking measures have had to be taken to limit the circulation of the virus; the school year in Guadeloupe and Martinique has had to be staggered to guarantee the protection of our youth and of all the populations – a decision taken in responsibility with all the local elected representatives and the Government. This health crisis, by its unprecedented character and brutality, upsets the usual landmarks and undermines confidence a little more. It upsets even the most entrenched traditions, as our funeral rites so characteristic of Creole cultures are challenged by the effects of the pandemic. It is also a new test for all the economic players in our territories, especially those of tourism, which is an essential sector in the overseas territories and which finds itself at a standstill: many very small enterprises are in great pain, in great difficulty and rely on the massive support of the State and the communities. On this point, I know, Mr Minister, the many support mechanisms put in place by the Government – you have reminded them – but I also hope that we will move forward together, creating a real monitoring committee to support the economic sectors and tourism in particular. We are all concerned by the current health crisis in Guadeloupe, Martinique, Polynesia and all the overseas territories. Each family is touched in its flesh – I say well in its flesh – because everyone knows the pain of losing a loved one. We need to hear the fears, doubts and fears of so much misinformation, so many manipulations at a time when some still doubt vaccination. We must listen to the words of the scientific experts and it is difficult to make it clear to our people. It is in this, you are right, Mr Gosselin, that we must show patience and pedagogy. We must hear the pain and suffering of the sick and the families, but also listen to the testimonies of the caregivers. Keep in mind that as long as there is no effective treatment to combat the serious forms of the virus, the vaccine remains the only way to effectively combat the pandemic and save lives.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u278	You have to say it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u279	Now is the time to re-establish the debate. Today we are living in dark days and the crisis is affecting us very much. As is often the case in serious situations, we face concerns and see the anger of the population, its legitimate misunderstanding of the loss of a father, a mother, a daughter, a wife, a husband at the same time, to be buried day after day. We must ask ourselves about our responsibilities and not take refuge in the search for scapegoats. The real topic is: how can we restore confidence to fight the virus effectively?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u280	Thank you, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u281	[[Applause on the benches of the Dem group. – Mrs Maina Sage and Sophie Panonacle and Mr Philippe Gosselin also applaud]] I appeal in this to unity, the first weapon to stop the wars of religion, to solidarity, but also to the sense of responsibility for a constructive dialogue with the State – I urge you, Mr Minister – in order to establish, within the framework of the draft law on the financing of social security (PLFSS), not only a real organization of work to review the geographical coefficients, but also a mission of general interest in favour of the overseas.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u282	Mr Gérard Leseul has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u283	I humbly express myself, on the basis of information that I have been able to gather from my ultramarine colleagues, forced to stay there because of the health crisis. We had the opportunity, as part of the review of the text in committee last Friday, to address several points on which previous speakers have come back. The epidemic wave that has been going through our ultramarine territories for several weeks now is of particular concern and weakens them, even if it differs from one territory to another. We have long said that the epidemic affects the elderly, but I would remind you once again that in ultramarine hospitals the average age of patients is 48 years; the delta variant strikes without distinction. Low immunization coverage rates have had particularly dramatic effects in the West Indies and currently in Polynesia. The epidemic peak was reached a few weeks ago in the West Indies, with a plateau observed for several days now: between Friday 3 September, the date of the meeting of the Law Committee, and this Tuesday 7 September, 419 new cases of covid-19 were recorded in Guadeloupe, a withdrawal which still represents more than 200 cases a day; With 195 new cases confirmed this Monday, September 6, compared to 213 three days earlier, the contamination curve continues to decline in Martinique but these situations remain fragile. In Polynesia, the incidence rate exceeded 3000 cases per 100,000 inhabitants and, as we pointed out in committee, the number of deaths in 24 hours would amount to 6000 French if the death figure were reported to the population of Hexagon, a figure ten times higher than at the height of the epidemic. We must all have a thought for the victims, their families, the sick and all the doctors and caregivers who come in to help save lives. In view of these situations of particular concern, this bill to extend the state of emergency in the ultramarine territories is justified. Of course, we must remember that the state of health emergency must be used with the utmost caution, but this device also allows us to envisage measures of price control or requisition in case of need. It must, however, be part of an effort to strengthen national solidarity efforts towards the territories concerned, in particular through the provision of new human, material and economic resources to strengthen the capacity for care. We have been talking about underprivileged territories for years and where, in many cases, the means are slow to arrive. I will cite a few specific examples: the structural situation of the university hospital centre (CHU) in Martinique is very degraded; that of Pointe-à-Pitre almost disappeared three years ago and the island is still waiting for a new CHU; For several years, the Reunion had been hoping for a reassessment of the geographical coefficient, which would allow it to obtain oxygen bottles at a lower price. The report on "Discriminations in the Overseas" also highlighted the existence of medical deserts in several territories, due to the lack of liberal doctors and specialists. Such unequal access to health care is not acceptable, especially since it does not allow us to look calmly at a possible epidemic recovery. In addition, vaccination coverage is particularly low in several ultramarine territories. However, the figures reported by the Minister reflect an undeniable reality: vaccination protects; It helps to contain the contamination and devastating effects of the delta variant. As long as vaccination rates do not rise sufficiently, some territories will continue to be exposed to catastrophic situations. So we must continue our pedagogy – this "go-to" pedagogy – not by simply making a few phone calls to the over 75s, but by taking an active, dynamic approach. We must also extend economic aid, as the confinements weaken companies. The Minister for Economic Affairs, Finance and Recovery has announced that the Solidarity Fund will be maintained in the Overseas Territories beyond 30 September, and we will ensure that all arrangements are maintained, adapted and strengthened in the ultramarine territories. If the Socialist and Related Group will vote on the bill authorizing the extension of the state of emergency in the overseas territories, it will propose amendments aimed in particular at institutionalizing monitoring committees, so that ultramarine elected officials are always involved in the decision-making process.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u284	Mrs Maina Sage has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u285	Above all, I would like to send a message of support to all our ultramarine compatriots, who are currently experiencing personal and family drama. I also have a thought for all the staff – volunteers, caregivers... – who face the daily health crisis, and of course for our local elected officials, more than ever mobilized to deal with an unprecedented epidemic wave. I do not forget the reinforcements we have received from the State, with all the volunteers coming from the health reserve in particular. As previous speakers have pointed out, the delta variant has caused an explosion of contamination in our territories: we are reaching record incidence rates, thus around 3000 active cases per 100,000 inhabitants in French Polynesia. Some territories suffer, moreover, from a geographical break-up – this is the case of French Polynesia with its 118 islands, 76 of which are inhabited. I have already stated here: it is more complicated to manage such a crisis in a territory far away from Hexagon and as vast as Europe; This requires additional resources. I would like to commend the very strong partnership we have forged with the State, with the High Commission of the Republic in French Polynesia and with all military and civilian forces, municipalities and even firefighters. Let's say: we are in a state of war; we are going through a major, unprecedented crisis – I have never seen my territory in such a situation. As Justine Benin noted, the situation is all the more difficult because, in our small territories, everyone knows each other: not one day happens without one of our loved ones being affected by the virus. I finally think, of course, of all our compatriots, wherever they are, who are experiencing such tragedies. Our hospitals have considerable needs, and they are almost saturation in many places. The crisis reveals structural deficits – the previous speakers stressed this. While this is not the purpose of this text, minister, we need to understand these deficits and consider a specific investment plan for future finance bills and social security financing bills. In terms of health, we need a proportionate response; It will vary by territory and over time. This bill is absolutely necessary. I would remind our colleagues who wanted to call it into question: it is an emergency measure which is part of an exceptional framework, and which will enable our territories to be supported both in health and in economic terms, the second being just as essential as the first. The health crisis is indeed causing major economic damage, which itself is causing no less serious social and societal damage. I will say a word about the psychological accompaniment that must be deployed in our territories. As you pointed out, minister, the answer at this time is to get vaccinated. We see the results, and the facts are there – we must say so. The people most at risk are those who have not yet taken this step. We must send them a benevolent message of encouragement, reminding them that this solution exists and that it must be addressed. It's a fact that you're less likely to go into resuscitation when you're vaccinated than when you're not. Perhaps we will have other solutions in the future, but for the moment this is not the case. The state of emergency requires a particular economic framework. In this regard, we expect a great deal. Professionals are very worried, especially those who depend on tourism activities, especially in French Polynesia – knowing that the air sector has already suffered a lot last year. Could you reassure us, Minister, about the ability to exceptionally support our airlines, which – as I have already pointed out here – are operators of strategic interest? [[Applause on the benches of the group Actir ens and on some benches of the groups Dem and LaREM]] Finally, I have tabled an appeal amendment to set up a committee to monitor the state's capacity in the Overseas Territories to combat the health crisis. On the other hand, my amendment to secure border controls was considered inadmissible. We hope that the State will provide a legislative response in this direction.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u286	Mrs Beatrice Descamps has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u287	The situation is worrying throughout the overseas region. It is particularly acute in French Polynesia and French Guiana, territories where the incidence rate is unprecedented and the mortality rate very high – for example, if the mortality rate of French Polynesia was reported to Hexagon, it would represent 6000 daily deaths. It took less to declare the "no matter what"! I welcome the commitment of our colleague Nicole Sanquer, who unfortunately was unable to come to Paris to take part in this debate. As in Guyana and the West Indies, it is the entire territory of French Polynesia that is in shock, in the face of the influx of patients into hospitals and the numerous deaths that mourn families. I am also thinking of our Caledonian colleagues, Philippe Gomès and Philippe Dunoyer. New Caledonia, which seemed to be spared by the covid-19, finally recorded its first cases recently, justifying the announcement of a confinement. This general discussion is an opportunity for the IDU and independent group to express its support and appreciation for the hundreds of voluntary hexagonal caregivers who have grown in the ranks of overseas caregivers: this is a direct and tangible testimony of the solidarity and humanity that animate our society, wherever we are, in the fight against covid-19. The extension of the state of emergency in overseas countries and territories is necessary, as the virus thrives, leaving patients, dead people, bereaved families and a latent economic and social crisis behind it. The state of health emergency is an indispensable tool because it alone allows to limit movements outside the home, through confinement or curfew. Beyond the state of emergency, the Territories are asking the Government for major measures – some of which have been formulated by the Chairman of the delegation to the overseas countries and territories, whose work we wish to pay tribute to. Economic measures must be renewed overseas: without them, the health crisis would be followed by an unprecedented economic crisis and then a social crisis. The Government intends to renew the aid – we will join you in this, Minister. However, the crisis is indicative of shortcomings in infrastructure and services. As was the case in Hexagon, where the crisis justified the Ségur de la santé and the plan France to revive, the overseas crisis must make us aware of the special needs expressed by our ultramarine fellow citizens. Another topic that calls our attention is that of immunization coverage. While full immunization coverage peaks at 77.8% for all of France, in many ultramarine territories, less than half of the population is vaccinated. The expressed distrust of vaccination – similar to what we know in Hexagon – is protein-forming. Whatever the reasons, it is the Government's responsibility to encourage, convince and do everything possible to ensure that our compatriots voluntarily accept vaccination. It would be a matter of concern that the lack of confidence persists, while the circulation of the virus is extremely high on the spot, and mortality is high. In addition to saving the lives of our fellow citizens, vaccination will allow economic recovery in areas where tourism is often the primary source of wealth production. Undoubtedly, tourism will not resume without a controlled health situation, and thus without large-scale vaccination coverage. In conclusion, the independent UDI group will vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u288	Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u289	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] The overseas is in a critical situation – we all know that. Here I renew my thoughts and solidarity with all the ultramarines. The exhaustion and dedication of health care professionals also deserve our recognition. The bill before us aims to extend the state of health emergency in the ultramarine territories that are already in such a state of emergency, and provides that if the state of health emergency is declared in the territory of Mayotte, Saint-Pierre-et-Miquelon, the Wallis and Futuna Islands or New Caledonia before 15 October, it will be extended until 15 November. To my surprise, the text concerns all the overseas territories, moreover in anticipation. None have been forgotten – forgotten, yet they are in other areas, just as alarming, if not more so, than the health crisis! [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] It is urgent to realize that the overseas is abandoned. I would like to address President Emmanuel Macron: if you are able to impose a specific law to extend the state of health emergency, you are also able to do so for the other ills that gnaw the overseas territories such as mass unemployment, poverty, illiteracy, the shortage and poor quality of water, the cost of life, the housing crisis, the ageing of the population – and I am moving on.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u290	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u291	[[Same movements]] These social situations cause co-morbidities directly related to the ravages of the delta variant in our territories. Why have there not been specific laws to deal with these serious problems, vectors of diseases and early death? What are you waiting for to establish a job guarantee, in order to combat unemployment which causes physical and mental suffering? What are you waiting for to launch a real anti-poverty plan and a major housing plan, or to help and support the elderly? There's been an emergency, and for many years! As far as the purely health aspect is concerned, it is deplorable to see a different treatment which certainly hides unhealthy maneuvers. The figures speak for themselves, ladies and gentlemen: in Mayotte, where prolongation is anticipated, the incidence rate is 50 cases per 100,000 inhabitants and it is 153 cases in Réunion. If the alert threshold is 200 cases per 100,000 inhabitants, how is it that of the twelve departments above this threshold, only three of them are overseas, compared to nine in Hexagon? In Bouches-du-Rhône the incidence rate is 503 cases per 100,000 inhabitants, it is 300 cases in Vaucluse, 271 cases in Gard and 273 cases in Var. Let us be clear, we do not want to include Hexagon in this text, but your contradictions are regrettable. Don't you see all the difficult situations, even dramatic ones, and the societal problems that go through our territories? You prefer to introduce an inhuman policy of sorting patients, first of all within the resuscitation services where our elders were abandoned and disconnected without agreement, as happened in Guadeloupe. Deprogramming of other pathologies was also deplored. This sorting was also carried out in health facilities depending on whether or not the health pass was owned. Who are you to choose between human beings, to grant you a right to life or death, to decide their right to be cared for? [[Applause on many benches in the FI group]] Last Thursday, at the meeting of the delegation to the overseas countries and territories, the lack of oxygen supply for patients, which led to the premature death of patients, was mentioned. It is unacceptable and shocking that a French territory suffers such injustices. Whose fault is it? Ultramarine or lack of public services, lack of humanism? A doctor returning from the West Indies even described his experience as ill-treatment. Why did you let the situation deteriorate? [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] This inhumanity is the result of the failure of the policy of conviction and vaccination in these territories, followed by restrictions of freedoms hindering the ultramarines even in their right to a normal family life. Once again, the Government is relying on the brutal effectiveness of the methods of another time. We have suffered an act of abandonment; The executive must therefore assume its responsibilities. We don't want your authoritarianism. We all know that forgotten territories are most affected by covid and the failures of your health policy. It is therefore urgent to put in place a true health policy such as that developed just before me by Jean-Luc Mélenchon, the chairman of our group.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u292	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u293	Mr Bertrand Pancher has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u294	From this rostrum, I have the opportunity to address all our thoughts to our overseas friends, our overseas compatriots. We are, of course, at their side in the face of the serious crisis they are currently experiencing. We want to tell them that we love them, that what they bring to our country is immense and that France has a permanent duty to listen to them more than ever, given the weight of history, the suffering that these overseas territories and departments have experienced. So we're with them, minister. Of course, we will support this bill because the situation overseas is very worrying. The number of deaths is increasing dramatically, particularly in Polynesia, where the epidemic killed at least 115 people in the last week of August. Compared to the population of the archipelago, this figure far exceeds all that has been experienced in the metropolis. For having spoken with parliamentarians from overseas, I was able to see how serious the situation was, to the extent that we are sometimes faced with a shortage of coffins. This critical situation obviously requires exceptional mobilization. Several hundred nursing staff have been deployed from the metropolis, and we obviously want to welcome their commitment, crucial – solidarity exists. Several explanations have been made to understand the specific situation in the overseas region, the vaccination rate of which is still particularly low. Our group reiterates its commitment to the vaccination of the entire population, the only solution to combat the pandemic effectively. The weakness of vaccination is also, it must be said clearly, due to a mistrust of the population, but not only. The executive's procrastination of the epidemic strategy and its many shortcomings – we think of tests, masks... – may have contributed to this defiance. The special situation of the Overseas Territories and history also contribute to a lack of confidence in the campaigns carried out by the State. We don't trust the state. Many unfortunate episodes such as the use of Chlordecone in the West Indies or nuclear tests in French Polynesia are still in memory. In the face of this situation, it was necessary to demonstrate pedagogy and to rely on field networks, including high-quality local elected officials, to carry out the vaccination campaign successfully. The Government had not taken sufficient account of the specificities of those territories and had not worked hard enough to convince the inhabitants. The decision-making process has not been sufficiently coordinated between the Prefect and the local elected representatives.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u295	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u296	We should have anticipated the reluctance to vaccination overseas and adapted the supply accordingly by adapting the logic of "go towards" to people who are experiencing difficulties in enrolling in the current vaccination route. In recent weeks, we should have seen significant delays in relation to the metropolis, and we should have set up targeted communication campaigns for the most affected audiences. There is an urgent need to do so, including civil society actors. We repeat that to restart vaccination, we need to rely on local health professionals, otherwise it won't work, on the treating doctors to whom we pay tribute, on pharmacists. They have a crucial role to play in restoring trust and obtaining informed consent from patients. This crisis also points to the specific problems of the ultramarine territories: isolation, co-morbidity, structural distrust of hospital services. Many of these territories have long been abandoned. Our colleague Sylvain Brial spoke in Wallis-et-Futuna about the incompatibility of QR codes with those established in metropolitan France. It's not nothing! In substance, our group has always opposed the principle of a state of emergency as a means of managing the health crisis. While containment and curfew at least restrict freedoms, these measures are nevertheless necessary, even if they will not in any way regulate the low vaccination coverage of the territories concerned. Finally, since the health situation in some overseas territories exceeds all that has been seen in metropolitan France, we understand that it is necessary to take exceptional short-term measures to curb the spread of the virus. Therefore, we will not oppose this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u297	Mr Jean-Philippe Nilor has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u298	As of September 3, Martinique had 460 deaths, Guadeloupe 508 and Polynesia 480. It's an unprecedented hecacomb. Whole families are decimated. According to the Government and the mass media under control, our populations reticent to vaccination therefore favour an epidemic of non-vaccinated: what a caricature! The aim is to blame the victims by concealing the responsibilities of the state: what cynicism! Now I'm angry. [[Applause on several benches in the FI group. – Mrs Martine Wonner also applauds]] Like many of my compatriots, I have lost enough parents, friends and relatives to remind you of the responsibilities of the State. In our territories, public policies have always favoured financial interests to the detriment of the precautionary principle. Several scandals, including chlordecone, have caused notorious co-morbidities. Despite the Lurel law, the overdosage of sugar in foods intended for our markets continues. This is the observation we made in the report which I co-produced with Maud Petit by denouncing this new scandal and making innovative proposals but which have not yet received any follow-up. In spite of all these vulnerabilities, the fourth wave followed the indiscriminate opening of borders, causing the massive influx of travellers and increasing the risk of contamination, to such an extent that at the height of the crisis the prefect of Martinique, aware of the shortcomings of the hospital system, hastened, on 9 August, to urge tourists to escape from the island to let our compatriots to their fate. Our hospitals are underequipped, underfunded, embolised. People have died because of the lack of resuscitation beds despite the seriousness of the risk involved. Others have died because of lack of oxygen, despite the presence of this resource in our territories and the great production capacity of Guyana. But Guyana is France. Today, Guadeloupe and Martinique are the largest outbreaks of contamination in the Caribbean. But why do neighbouring countries that have immunized less than we have fewer contaminations and deaths?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u299	Ah, Ah...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u300	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group. – Mr Nicolas Dupont-Aignan and Mrs Martine Wonner also applaud]] To explain this health catastrophe by the refusal of vaccination alone is to offend, once again and again, people who have learned lessons from history.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u301	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u302	[[Mrs Martine Wonner and Messrs. Jean-Paul Lecoq and Nicolas Dupont-Aignan applaud]] It is the Government that is sinning for lack of differentiated pedagogy. Under these conditions, the injection injunction is bound to fail. The population's mistrust of the vaccine is legitimate, especially since the strategy of the state's vaccine system obsessively excludes any therapeutic alternatives. Why are some drugs that are supposedly effective against covid not found in the West Indies when they are available in Hexagon? [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group and on many benches of the FI group. – Mrs Martine Wonner also applauds]] Worse, on 8 April, the High Health Authority validated a follow-up protocol for patients covid-19 in outpatients, which specifically recommended that each patient should be referred to a city doctor for diagnosis, free supply of oxygen meters, and finally saturation at home three times a day. However, this protocol has never been applied in our country. Why? Relevant initiatives by local actors aimed at faster management, such as the creation of an oxygenation room in the south-central part of the island, are being snobbled by the hospital authorities. Thus, our hospitals become dying for lack of anticipation, for lack of upstream care, for lack of material resources. In Polynesia, US billionaire Marc Benioff financed 480 oxygen extractor concentrators.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u303	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u304	For decades, our voices have evaporated in this House, and you are deaf.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u305	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u306	[[Applause on many benches in the FI group. – Mrs Martine Wonner also applauds]] It shows this bill, which is in one clause and which tells us nothing about leaving the state of emergency and the new, more effective control protocols, nothing about the participation of health professionals, union representatives in the general health organization, nothing about the early care of covid patients by city medicine in complementarity with the hospital, nothing about the therapeutic alternatives, nothing about the disastrous economic and social consequences of this crisis. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups. – MM. Nicolas Dupont-Aignan and Max Mathiasin also applaud]] Aimé Césaire said: "I live in a sacred wound. With this crisis and this calamitous management, our wound is now blissful and I warn you that its healing will be very problematic.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u307	It's all said!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u308	Mrs Martine Wonner has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u309	For the ninth time, we are considering a bill dealing with a state of health emergency. The situation in the overseas region is alarming, although there is an improvement in Reunion due to the dry season. However, in French Polynesia, Martinique, Guadeloupe, Réunion, French Guiana, hospital facilities do not have the capacity to accommodate all patients. Fortunately, the dengue epidemic has completely disappeared, hasn't it? As the flu had almost disappeared from the European continent last winter, right? You know that people are weakened by co-morbidities, it's not new, but what are you doing?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u310	What about you?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u311	She's not in the government, you'll ask her the question when she becomes a minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u312	In these territories, the shortage of equipment and the shortage of beds lead to situations that we never thought we would know again: the sorting of patients. I will give an example, that of La Réunion: if the regulation of the calls made to the 15 was more efficient, if there were not thirty minutes waiting, if there were still two SMURs – mobile emergency service and resuscitation – in Saint-Denis and at least one in Saint-Joseph, there would be less sorting to do. Another example: why did you wait for hospital saturation to finally hear the call of the Guadeloupian firefighters on the lack of equipment? Arguing the urgency, arguing the vital nature of the issue, you come back too much to impose an emergency regime. I refer here to a series of questions that our fellow citizens ask themselves in the ultramarine territories. Why was the Government not able to anticipate what could happen again? While there were zero cases of covid in the West Indies until June, the poor protection of vaccines was illustrated by the influx of allegedly immunized tourists, but actually contaminants. Why is ivermectin not accessible? Since when does a defence counsel have the skills to manage an epidemic? Nine times since the beginning of the crisis, the Government has introduced the emergency regime, either to establish it or to extend it. Nine times! Nine times, the Government has shown its inability to imagine a health and democratic response adapted to this pandemic. How did we get there? How are we still at this stage of urgency, of haste, of incompetence, with so much contempt for our rule of law? Here, three months ago, the Government, blindly supported by the majority, came to present us with a plan to leave the state of emergency. He is now returning to present a new one, this time for the overseas. It could have been hoped that the Government would increase the capacity of hospitals. He reduced them. It could have been hoped that the Government would improve access to care. He wiped it out. It could have been hoped that the Government would improve the working conditions of caregivers. He forced them, stigmatized them and from 15 September some will become pariahs. What have you been offering us for 18 months to get out of the health crisis? Still the same liberticide recipes: travel ban, curfew, closures of public or private places, without following any health logic or economic logic but only a political logic. That's the reality. Yes, I can hear the words of urgency and effectiveness, which are those of the Government to put an end to the health crisis. But is it not this centralized and inappropriate governance for the territories that explains our presence for the ninth time? [[Nicolas Dupont-Aignan applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, what is our share of responsibility, to us parliamentarians, in this situation? We are national representation and we have a duty to represent and protect the people. It would be time to listen to this people who are rising ever more, every Saturday, to defend fundamental freedoms. Health emergency measures significantly limit our fundamental rights, especially for the most vulnerable, the rights defenders tell us. Wouldn't it be time to change paradigms? When are you finally going to put an end to your ineffective, harmful and liberticide governance? Freedom has always guided the French people. You destroy democracy a little more every day; the story will remember.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u313	I now call, in the text of the commission, the single clause of the bill. As you know, normally only one speaker per group can speak on each item. However, because of the nature of this text, which particularly concerns our overseas colleagues, it has been decided to derogate from this rule and to allow all overseas Members who wish to speak, within a period of two minutes.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u314	Mr Olivier Serva has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u315	I will give a figure: while 1% of the French population is Caribbean, 25% of the deaths of Covid-19 are Caribbean. Thinking of our sisters and brothers who are fighting this virus at this very moment and on behalf of the entire overseas delegation, my opening remarks will be addressed to the bereaved families of this territory. It is impossible to forget the terrible scenes that structure our daily life: crowded morgues, express farewells, patient sorting, deaths at home, psychological suffering. The times are tough and I understand the willingness of the Government, including Minister Sébastien Lecornu, to extend the state of health emergency in our territory. However, it is my responsibility to recall the inadequacy of this framework in view of the immense difficulties and suffering on the ground in the overseas countries and territories. Since the beginning of the crisis, the ultramarine territories have faced many complications, whether health or economic. Health staff rely on you to meet their needs; You started doing it. It is also necessary to support the development of an oxygen production chain in each territory, as has been pointed out; This is already the case in Polynesia. In addition, a telephone line for liberal nurses must be created without delay so that they can sign ambulance vouchers, which is impossible for them today without the advice of a doctor. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Our economy is crumbling because of an unprecedented administrative apoplexy. Some companies have to apply for a tax or social moratorium to benefit from the solidarity fund or state-guaranteed loans, which are difficult to obtain on the ground. In addition, the fixed cost scheme should be adapted. In addition to the state of emergency, it is imperative that the State consider priorities and commit all its means to alleviate the economic and social suffering of our people.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u316	Mrs Nathalie Bassire has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u317	The health situation in some ultramarine territories is of great concern, as shown by the few figures we have heard. Some experienced an incidence rate of 2300 cases per 100,000 inhabitants last month and were in critical position due to lack of resuscitation beds available. If there is a gradual improvement, we must act with caution, which justifies derogatory measures. However, let us deplore the lack of resources in ultramarine hospitals. The difficulties faced by the Overseas Territories would have been reduced if their hospital services had been supported by the Government, thanks to an increase in the reception capacity and the number of staff, which we have repeatedly requested. In this connection, let us welcome the initiative of the Île-de-France region, which, in cooperation with the overseas regions of Guadeloupe and Martinique, has delivered twenty-six resuscitation beds to these regions. Minister, it is vital that the next PLFSS takes into account the structural fragility of the ultramarine territories and provides concrete answers. I also regret that in this text dealing with ultramarine territories, their specificities are not taken into account. Indeed, the bill aims to extend the state of emergency in a territory such as Réunion, which has an incidence rate similar to the national average, without measuring the economic consequences of this decision. If the text is voted as it stands, I hope that the Government will accompany it with measures to support companies and ultramarine populations, already shaken by these long months of pandemic. On the other hand, I know how to count on the vision of the prefects, especially that of my territory, La Réunion, to take only the decisions strictly necessary by this delicate situation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u318	Mr Max Mathiasin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u319	Recently, in the discussions on the introduction of the health pass, I drew the attention of our colleagues to the need for differentiation between the overseas territories and Hexagon. Of course, this request was not heard, as we were on the eve of a first wave overseas. It was already possible to anticipate the latter because we had figures showing the low rate of vaccination of the population and the low level of equipment and equipment in these territories – I am thinking in particular of the low capacity and even the under-dimensions of the university hospital in Pointe-à-Pitre. Many of us here agree that this crisis was predictable. We would have done better if we had anticipated it; This has not been the case. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group as well as on some benches of the LaREM group]] In addition, I would have preferred an article 2 to be added to the single article of the text. This would make it possible to include the covid's monitoring committee in the law, stating that the covid would meet once a week and that it would include not only elected officials, but also health specialists – for example, representatives of the National Council of the Order of Physicians and the National Order of Pharmacists – as well as other personalities. This legal framework would allow analysis, forecasting and anticipation. As you know, given the low rate of immunization, we are not immune to a new crisis.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u320	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u321	Without wanting to push open doors, I would like to stress that the priority of the priorities is to increase the rate of vaccination in the overseas countries and territories, as in metropolitan France. For this to happen, we must create the conditions of confidence, for a population made suspicious by the catastrophic chlordecone affair, we know this – not to mention the tendency of a part of the local population to resort to traditional herbs, of which one can doubt that they provide an effective response to the disease we know. Immunization of the population is crucial. We must redouble our efforts of conviction. I believe in pedagogy, I believe in information, I believe in respect for people, I believe that we must rely on professionals rather than coercion. The priority is here: it is the educational effort in favour of vaccination in the overseas as well as in the metropolis.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u322	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u323	Minister, if only you had introduced a bill to address the health problem, at least for hospitals overseas! There isn't a day without receiving a health alert asking for overseas reinforcements. It is the daily life of all Hexagon caregivers, whether they are stationed, or volunteered to serve as reinforcements. The message has one side of guilt: "Your caregiving colleagues overseas need you! I'm telling you with the bruised heart: I talked with members of my parliamentary group about where I belong – here or in a hospital in an overseas territory, to help?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u324	And Veran, where is he?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u325	Will this bill solve the problem of the number of caregivers and avoid triage? No! Will this bill solve the problem of water supply, even in hospitals, where caregivers must be able to wash their hands? No! That's where we're at. You blame the caregivers, you blame them for not being in sufficient numbers, while, in a few weeks, some will be dismissed – but that is another subject, moreover, very important. You are asking us to vote on your bill. How? You've already been four years, and it's been four years, that I've been asking for the most sincere means...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u326	Thank you, Mrs. Fiat.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u327	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] ...human and financial for hospitals. Take action, plan, plan, you didn't do it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u328	Mrs Karine Lebon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u329	This bill contains a single article that allows prefects to adapt decisions locally, depending on the health situation. If we agree with this principle, which could also be declined more often, we very much regret that it is being requested in a text without content. For the time being, La Réunion seems to have ruled out the risk of epidemic outbreaks, even if the situation remains fragile. This is not the case in Martinique, Guadeloupe or Polynesia. Our incidence rate is 152.9 when it is in Martinique of 438.47, Guadeloupe of 580.82 and Polynesia of nearly 3000. However, the text does not provide for any differentiation between these situations; All territories are expected to undergo the same treatment. Therefore, if, out of solidarity and a spirit of responsibility, I will vote on the bill, I will try, by way of an amendment, to exclude the territory of La Réunion. It is quite regrettable that it is only a scoping text, in which the real problems that the health crisis aggravates are not dealt with at the same time as it reveals them, this time in a dramatic way: the lack of beds in hospitals, the lack of resources allocated to the health of the Réunions, the mal-housing which favours contamination, the worrying comorbidities, more important than in Hexagon. Réunion holds the world's sad record of diabetics and the failure to enforce the law on overseas economic regulation, known as the Lurel law, does not help. All this calls for responses from the public authorities. Health is a national competence and it is urgent that the Government decide to deploy the necessary means and measures to ensure that our territories no longer have to deal with such situations of pressure and hospital tension. Diagnostics have been known for a long time. There are many reports in this regard; amendments were voted, commitments were made; However, the funding of hospitals has not moved and the geographical coefficient has not yet been changed. [[Applause on a few benches of the FI group]] The Ségur de la santé has not changed anything for our institutions, for the simple reason that overseas is one of the untreated subjects.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u330	She's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u331	Thank you for closing, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u332	We are still waiting for the actions you promised to launch, in liaison with the Minister of Solidarity and Health. The epidemic cruelly confirms the structural fragility of hospitals.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u333	Your time has expired.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u334	[["Stop! » on several benches of the LaREM group]] It is time for decision-making and strong action.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u335	We'll have an opportunity to get back to it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u336	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups. – Mr. Max Mathiasin also applauds]] I'll finish. Let us not forget that the situation of a state of emergency must remain exceptional and that we must build lasting solutions in order to get out of it in a sustainable manner.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u337	Mr Nicolas Dupont-Aignan has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u338	The dramatic health situation in the overseas departments and territories makes me think that this session is surreal. The bill is limited to a state of emergency clause and reveals your complete lack of anticipation. We are not at the beginning of the health crisis and we have long known the situation of hospitals in Guadeloupe, in Mayotte – I remember a trip to Mayotte where water did not arrive regularly. We knew all this. Members of Parliament and ultramarine senators did not fail to alert you, to write to you, whatever their political edge: nothing. Nothing but unconsciousness, total amateurism. [[Protests on the benches of the LaREM group]] Why do we keep closing beds? Why are we refusing – I would like to have the Minister of Solidarity and Health in front of me – to open the Val-de-Grâce, for example? It's the same thing, and worse still, overseas. Of course, there have been temporary beds open – and fortunately – but we're still a long way from it. Why this systematic refusal – I have the proof – in Guadeloupe and Martinique, to deliver ivermectin, which has saved lives in many countries? Why are doctors who prescribe ivermectin being prosecuted in these territories? The vaccine can be discussed, but in this case the vaccination rate is known to be low. Why don't we treat with preventive treatments overseas? Explain to me: why is it reserved for the metropolis? We can question each other. [[Protests and exclamations on the banks of the LaREM Group]] Finally, I come to respect for the barrier gestures. How do we respect barring actions when there is no water, when there are water shortages in Guadeloupe and it has been going on for years? We've been talking about it for four years. It is very easy to give lessons here and to blame the ultramarine populations, to accuse them of not being cautious, as the minister has done in a scandalous way!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u339	Thank you, Mr. Dupont-Aignan.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u340	Last point: a breakout is being made between the metropolis and the ultramarines, because of your management of the crisis.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u341	Mrs Manuela Kéclard-Mondésir has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u342	To bring parliamentarians together in special sessions to discuss the overseas territories is to recognize the peculiarity of their health, but also economic and social problems: poverty, youth employment, the ageing of the population, structural co-morbidities. Let us not forget the psychological question because the health catastrophe has taken on special forms that will leave deep traces, especially in the West Indies. But let me say that this is a missed opportunity: we could have asked ourselves real questions and brought true answers. Instead, as a result of the drafting of the single article, we cannot have a debate through which we could make proposals to recognise this ultramarine diversity. We are told that there are debates, but they are still in a state of promise. And we are still waiting for real understanding and ambition to discuss the structural problems we are facing, especially in the health sector. [[Applause on several benches of the GDR group]] I will vote on this bill in order not to prevent the mobilization of businesses and the implementation of the Government's mechanisms. Nevertheless, I regret that it contains only one article and, I repeat, that we cannot go any further in the debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u343	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u344	Mr Jean-Luc Poudroux has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u345	My speech is more directed to your colleague in charge of solidarity and health. You have the ability to swallow greens and ripe steps; the ability also to vary in your statements, so that I hear citizens here and there – probably "covidiots" – proclaim that the variant "all and its opposite" occupies a good place within the Government. As a result, we know it: a lack of confidence, even mistrust, and anger towards it. [[Smile on several benches of the LaREM group]] What's more, this variant is contagious. The latest contamination is very recent: it has again reached the Government and the President of the Republic. An uncontrolled slip on the technical control of motorcycles – François Hollande has escaped it beautiful! [[Same movements]] The urgency, Minister, is to make a coherent speech. The emergency is more of the resources allocated to the public hospital. The emergency in Reunion is the fight for employment, for housing. The urgency, Minister, is the increase in purchasing power; Unfortunately, the problem of freight is making the situation even worse. The urgency is to define a more just social and economic policy overseas. It is not enough to cross the street to get a job. It is a vision from above, a vision of the new world, which needs to be changed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u346	I don't understand!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u347	Change is now!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u348	It's the president that needs to be changed! And the government! And the majority!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u349	It's true the list is long!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u350	Mr Gérard Leseul has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u351	Gérard Leseul is an excellent parliamentarian!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u352	Only present in his group, he never bore his name so well!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u353	As mentioned above, we will ensure that all the various aid schemes, social and economic, are not only maintained, but above all adapted to the specificities of all the ultramarine territories. I understand that there are – or will be – discussions with several ultramarine parliamentarians in the context of the budget debates. We will then propose to institutionalise monitoring committees, as I mentioned earlier in the general discussion, so that the elected representatives are always involved in decision-making. In general, given the specific features of the ultramarine environment, whether in economic matters, such as geographical remoteness or the importance of the informal economy, or in health matters, such as access to water or low vaccination coverage, the question of adapting national measures must be constantly raised, in conjunction with elected representatives, in order to find appropriate solutions. I will propose two amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u354	On the identical amendments Nos 1 and 32, I am seized by the Group of the European People's Party of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland of a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. I have before me two deletion amendments, Nos 1 and 32. I call Mr Corbière to support Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u355	With this amendment, the La France group insoubted its very clear opposition to the bill as a whole; the arguments were given. We oppose the extension of the state of emergency until 15 November in La Réunion, Martinique, Guadeloupe, Polynesia, Guyana, Saint-Martin and Saint-Barthélemy. As we have said, this perpetuation of the restriction of rights and freedoms, which has been in place for more than a year, is not an adequate health and social response. Vaccination in the overseas territories is very low; Once again, what we are proposing, what we are advocating for, is, as a matter of urgency, a "go-to" policy, in order to introduce a real emergency vaccination plan to speed up vaccination coverage overseas, which is not really done. In addition, I insist and repeat what has been said forcefully by Danièle Obono, Caroline Fiat, Jean-Hugues Ratenon and Jean-Luc Mélenchon: we must guarantee access to water in order to wash our hands. This is one of the first ways to guarantee this barrier gesture; There are no plans for this. Don't excuse the urgency: for four years now that you have been in charge, this situation is a reality that you cannot ignore and that has not been resolved. [[Applause on a few benches of the FI group]] In short, we insist on "go to" policy, we want a true vaccination policy. That is why we want the deletion of the single article, in order to provide a true answer, not a false one.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u356	I call Mrs Martine Wonner to support Amendment No. 32.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u357	[[Mr Raphaël Gérard protested]] I have tabled an amendment to delete the single article, because the exceptional regime that you are still proposing for the overseas territories has lasted too long. You didn't anticipate anything, when it would have been easy to isolate the territories and prevent tourist shuttles that all summer, although vaccinated to get on the planes, showed that they were carrying the covid.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u358	Yes! We have to build a wall!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u359	What are you planning for the coming weeks? Given the low rate of vaccination, you plan to suspend caregivers, while being afraid of immediate consequences. I will give only one example: in Guadeloupe, there are people with dialysis; The vaccination rate of caregivers is so low that if unvaccinated caregivers were to be suspended, the life expectancy of all these dialysis patients would not even be a week. You know you're going in the wall...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u360	Ah! The wall!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u361	... and in spite of everything, rather than strengthening human resources, rather than early treatments, you always propose the same thing: lock up and not cure. It's a shame, minister. You can stand your head when I'm talking, but what's happening, what you're participating in, is really a shame.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u362	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u363	I agree on the need to step up the vaccination campaign by strengthening the "go towards" policy, informing and opening vaccination centres. On the other hand, the opinion was very unfavourable to these deletion amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u364	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u365	I do not go back to what I said in the general discussion, which responded in advance to a large part of what has just been said. Opinions against these deletion amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u366	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u367	It is the only health text on the overseas territories: I was hoping, Minister, for a more consistent answer. Several speakers have asked you about the structural problems that are partly at the root of the epidemic's strength, as well as about the emergency measures that should be taken now. Unfortunately, the majority have swept away our amendments, yet with very concrete proposals – on the overseas territories this week, but more generally for more than a year. The rapporteur has taken on board this idea of the "go towards" supposedly put in place by the Government, whereas it is not! Otherwise, you would have accepted the amendment that we proposed on this subject. But you rejected him. There is a need for a genuine "go-to" policy, that is, a community health policy, a policy that engages the community in the improvement of its own health, drawing on knowledge, the expertise of populations, associations and collectives. This is all the more true overseas as these territories have experienced other epidemics and developed expertise. We believe that not only does this bill reduce rights and freedoms, but it also shows contempt for the people on whom, in your view, descendant communication campaigns, which recall bad memories, are often perceived as neocolonial. Instead, you should mobilize the people themselves. This attitude explains, in our view, the great reluctance we have towards your policy in the population. [[Caroline Fiat and Jean-Hugues Ratenon applaud]] That is why your policy is a failure and that is why we refuse to vote on this article.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u368	Mr Nicolas Dupont-Aignan has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u369	I did not have time to conclude my speech on the single article; I wanted to stress the absolutely incredible climate of distrust that is developing between the overseas and the metropolis. The policy you are pursuing is limited to imposing a state of emergency when there is a need for a real, comprehensive, medium-term health action plan: thus, you are widening the gap between the ultramarines and the metropolis. [[Protests on the benches of the LaREM group]] You take on an enormous responsibility, to the extent that the Minister of Solidarity and Health has not even dared to speak to the firefighters of Guadeloupe: he escaped by helicopter, unable that he was to answer them. What is happening in Guadeloupe and Martinique is worrying for the future.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u370	Stop it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u371	If we love France with the overseas, we must act differently: our ultramarine compatriots read mistrust in your policy. Whether we agree with them or not, that is the reality, and many ultramarine parliamentarians, no matter what bench they sit on, say it and repeat it. I would like Mr Veran to be a little more modest when he goes overseas, and I would like him to consider ultramarines a little better. I would like us to have a global project, not just a state of emergency – against which I will vote in any event.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u372	Mrs Martine Wonner has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u373	It is very disappointing that we are not getting any answers on the health issue. The rapporteur speaks only of vaccination: it is shameful. The ultramarines expect something else: that they be offered means, consideration, respect, that they be treated simply. Caregivers in these territories are waiting for the guarantee that their employment contract will not be suspended. Such a suspension would be shameful. That this bill does not provide a comprehensive response is hopeless.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u374	I put to the vote identical amendments Nos 1 and 32.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u375	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 98 Number of votes cast 96 Absolute majority 49 For adoption 12 Against 84
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u376	Mrs Nathalie Bassire has the floor to support Amendment No. 35.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u377	With an incidence rate of 159.2 on 2 September and 51 per cent of the primary population, La Réunion is gradually approaching the national average, which has an incidence rate of 148.1 and 72 per cent of primary vaccinations. However, with a comparable contamination rate, no extension was proposed for Hexagon. The extension of the state of emergency in the territory of Réunion therefore does not meet a need to harmonise the policy of crisis management in the national territory; Moreover, health data do not make it necessary. It would be essential, however, to justify this decision, which not only denies the efforts of the people of Réunion to meet health standards and to immunize them, but also risks affecting the fragile economic fabric of our territory. And the minister responsible for small and medium-sized enterprises told us, this very afternoon, to wait until the end of the health crisis to propose solutions! Consequently, the territory of Réunion can only be excluded from the proposed scheme.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u378	On Amendment No 35, I am seized of a request for a public vote by the La France group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u379	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u380	We see an improvement in Reunion, that is true: the prefect has just lifted the confinement during the week, but not during the weekend, where the movements remain limited to 10 kilometers around the home. But the situation remains extremely fragile, and we must wait for it to stabilize. It therefore appears necessary to extend the state of health emergency.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u381	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u382	Request for withdrawal, or if applicable, unfavorable notice. This amendment seems premature: the situation remains fragile. Unfortunately, the curve of recent months has shown us epidemic recovery. In La Réunion there have been confinements limited to certain communes, you remember. You recalled just now the confidence that you give to your prefect, Mr Jacques Billant: thanks to the law that we submit to you, he will be able to adapt the measures according to the situation. On behalf of the Government, I am committed to this: as soon as the incidence rates have decreased significantly, and the decline will be visible over time, in conjunction with the hospital community, we will be able to gradually loosen the braking measures. We must maintain the legal basis for action, even if we do not have to tell anything: in the event of a resumption of the epidemic, we should return very quickly to Parliament, even if a decree in Council of Ministers allows us to take action for 30 days. The history of the 18 months we have just lived requires caution. Let us not change the method: let local authorities manage the crisis. We are talking a lot about decentralization, but let us not forget the deconcentration. Let us trust the actors in the territory, and the flow of information.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u383	Mrs Karine Lebon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u384	I support this amendment, for reasons that I explained earlier. [[Applause and exclamations on the benches of the FI group. – Protests on the benches of the LaREM group]] I would like to take this opportunity to recall the latest figures for La Réunion, which came out today: the incidence rate is 152.9, 57.4 per cent of the eligible population is fully vaccinated, and 65.4 per cent have had a first injection. The figures you gave, Minister, are different; Yet my source is the official page of La Réunion Prefecture. It is a shame that you did not provide updated figures during your speech at the beginning of the session. I am aware that the situation remains fragile. Nevertheless, I repeat, it is a pity that this bill does not allow for differentiation between territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u385	Yes, I do!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u386	I put to the vote Amendment No 35.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u387	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 95 Number of votes cast 90 Absolute majority 46 For adoption 23 Against 67
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u388	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor to support Amendment No. 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u389	This amendment opposes the extension of the state of emergency in Guyana, as we have done for each overseas territory. It should be recalled that Guyana is the only department where our fellow citizens have been living under the state of emergency since 17 October 2020. If this text is adopted, it will soon be more than a year. Throughout this period, the Government did not implement the necessary policy, did not plan to protect the health of the population. The failure of the vaccination campaign is an example, as the Scientific Council recalled in mid-August: as at 18 August, only 24 per cent of Guyanans had received one dose, compared with 71 per cent in Hexagon. More generally, the text does not seem to take into account the reality of the under-sizing of health infrastructure overseas. This medical subdensity is particularly strong in Guyana: 42 per cent of the population is affected, compared with a French average of 5.7 per cent. For the past four years, you have refused to tackle these structural problems, and your only response to the crisis is the extension of a state of emergency, hence the decline of freedoms. We oppose it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u390	It's blablabla!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u391	[[At 19.40 a.m., Mr. Sylvain Waserman replaced Mr. Marc Le Fur in the Chair]]
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u392	Good morning, colleagues. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u393	Guyana is a very large territory, and its situation is deteriorating. The vaccination rate is very low. The proposed measures are essential. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u394	I call Mr Eric Coquerel to support Amendment No. 3.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u395	This amendment opposes the extension of the state of emergency in Martinique and La Réunion. We are beginning to get used to the fact that the Government is pressing "state of emergency", "containment", that is to say, it is taking libertic measures when it would have done better to anticipate, repair and organize. In addition to this, in the case of Martinique in particular, it is accompanied by speeches which, at times, in their most extreme version vis-à-vis the inhabitants, suggest that there would be a particularism as to the refusal to be vaccinated, unfortunately flourishing racism. I will quote Louis Bernard, Head of Internal Medicine and Infectious Diseases at the Regional University Hospital Centre (CHRU) in Tours, who, this summer, went to help caregivers in Guadeloupe and Martinique, with some of his colleagues. He speaks of "sanitary abuse" about Martinique: "In more than thirty years of work, I have never known this in a French department [...]. I still have some dark ideas in the face of the massive influx of patients, the people remaining for twenty-four hours on stretchers in a precarious hygiene [...]. He cites the lack of resources, the resuscitation beds, including unfortunately the question of sorting, a situation which recalls that of Hexagon after the first wave. This is the fourth wave and clearly nothing has been anticipated overseas, especially in Martinique. Nor has anything been anticipated in the context of the "go towards" policy, since the least we can say is that the French government has largely sinned in relation to its European neighbours. In a French Inter program, "Le téléphone sonne", someone from Martinique spoke of messages of communication aimed at encouraging people to get vaccinated, which were the same as those from Hexagone. For example, it was explained that it was good to go to the opera. No message in Creole or that took into account the sociability of people in Martinique was broadcast. In other words, they were completely out of date. [[Mr. Jean-Hugues Ratenon applauds]] Our colleague Jean-Hugues Ratenon reminded us very well earlier: instead of the state of emergency which is proposed and which is full of security aspects, we would do better in the end to remedy what the first wave revealed of the crisis. We need an equal state of emergency for the Overseas Territories. That is the reality, and that is what your bill does not do.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u396	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u397	Although contamination in Martinique is declining, the stress indicator for resuscitation remains very important: it exceeds 90%. We must therefore not relax our efforts. Thus, I express an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u398	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u399	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u400	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u401	We do not ask you to relax your efforts. We are telling you that these are laws of ease which, in addition, are liberticides because you have not anticipated anything. If Martinique and other overseas departments or territories find themselves in this situation when successive waves were planned, nothing has been done to improve a health situation that does not reveal its shortcomings today but is explosive. That's what you're being blamed for, and the bill won't fix anything.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u402	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor to support Amendment No. 4.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u403	It deals in particular with the situation in Guadeloupe and Saint-Barthélemy, a situation which is a glaring example not only of your lack of planning and anticipation, but also of the failure of your policy. In June 2018, three years ago, I was questioning here the minister of overseas, following a trip to Guadeloupe where I had the opportunity to meet, among other things, caregivers of the CHU de la Guadeloupe, who had been partially destroyed by a fire. Today, it does not yet have 100% of its capacity to accommodate all patients on a daily basis, not to mention the situation during a pandemic. All the elected representatives of Guadeloupe – and not just me or the members of the La France group – question successive governments, especially yours, about this situation. Interpellations also come from civil society. I am thinking of the action taken by the LKP – Liyannaj Kont Pwofitasyon, a collective against alien exploitation – which, at the beginning of the pandemic, had called us into question the management of the health crisis, in particular the conditions under which certain materials were sent to the overseas territories. Today, these same collectives are calling for a commission of inquiry into this management, a claim that we support. We have also made several contributions to the commission of inquiry on the management of the covid -19 epidemic in France led by the La France insoumée movement. The rejection of our colleague Jean-Hugues Ratenon's amendment to establish in each territory a monitoring committee composed of representatives of the State, health personnel, elected officials, qualified personalities and citizens to ensure the application of the measures and the transparency of your management is indicative of your contempt and incompetence in this matter.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u404	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u405	It is true that the incidence rates are still high: below 2000 for Guadeloupe and close to 500 for Saint-Martin. Since vaccination coverage is not yet satisfactory, the restriction of freedom of movement is the only method to prevent the virus from circulating. It's not simple and it's trying, but it's about protecting the health of the inhabitants of these islands. I therefore express an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u406	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u407	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u408	Mr Jean-Philippe Nilor has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u409	It is regrettable that when they respond, the rapporteur and the minister are obsessed with the rate of vaccination.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u410	Among other things!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u411	Indeed, vaccination is not the only explanation or solution. Today, in our territories, the communication campaign is so disastrous, the pedagogy used so poor, that it encourages people not to get vaccinated. We are called voodooists, they say that it is because we are illiterate that we do not vaccinate,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u412	This has nothing to do with it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u413	Who says that?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u414	[[Applause on several benches in the FI group. – Mrs Martine Wonner also applauds]] [["That's not true! "It's outrageous to claim that! "Unfortunate!", "Unfortunate! » on the benches of the LaREM group]] ...that it is because we are inveterate worshipers of the Virgin Mary, because we live in magico-religious beliefs. That has been said in the media that support you and by ministers.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u415	Which ones?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u416	What a shame!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u417	Go on, Mr. Nilor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u418	[[Applause on a few benches of the FI group. – Long protests on the benches of the LaREM group]] I can assure you that when the Minister of Solidarity and Health, Mr.Véran, came to Martinique, he spoke of magico-religious beliefs. I can assure you that if I had had some voodoo rudiments, he might not have come out alive from Martinique.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u419	Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor to support Amendment No. 5.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u420	In the preamble, I wish to say that I am completely in solidarity with the words of my friend and comrade Jean-Philippe Nilor. The group La France insoumise opposes the extension of the power to decree a state of emergency for a period of more than one month in the department of Mayotte. Indeed, Mahorais must not live longer under the threat of curfew and confinement for such a long period. The inhabitants of the 101st French Department do not have to suffer the fact that the only anticipation and planning that the Government is capable of using is the use of medieval and liberticide methods. It is the chronic under-sizing of the hospital supply on site that feeds the concerns of the regional health agency and this is all the more so since the neighbouring department, La Réunion – my island – is also confronted with a new wave of covid-19. When the Scientific Council called for forward planning overseas, the Government could have heard something other than re-defining and curfewing. [[Mrs Mathilde Panot applauds]] The time to plan alternatives to containment in Mayotte as elsewhere must come. That is why we oppose the provision of this paragraph relating to Mayotte.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u421	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u422	I would point out that this system has been in force since the law of 5 August 2021 on the management of the health crisis and has not been used. This is proof that it is used only when it is necessary. Given the numbers that are deteriorating a little bit, we must be prepared. I have an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u423	I have two identical amendments before me, Nos 6 and 39. Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor to support Amendment No. 6.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u424	It deals with the situation in Saint-Pierre-et-Miquelon. The Government has been acting counter-intelligence since the beginning of the pandemic,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u425	We'll get it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u426	... both in the Hexagon and in the overseas territories, not taking into account the very different situation of the latter. While the epidemic tension is lower in some of them, rather than prolonging the state of emergency, we should just discuss the measures to be applied to anticipate, to protect the population, and to ensure that they do not depend on the help of others, themselves undersized, in case they are confronted with a new wave.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u427	But what anticipation are you talking about?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u428	This is the case of Saint-Pierre-et-Miquelon and Wallis-et-Futuna, whose amendment No 7 also deals with and which I have defended in this way. The bill is seen as a technical formality that ignores the urgent need to invest and upgrade the status of caregivers. It has been called for for years and is even more pressing today in view of the pandemic. You could answer that right now,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u429	It's sure it'll keep people from dying!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u430	... but you refuse to do so, introducing authoritarian measures of state of emergency to hide the failure of your policy not only health but also social and economic in these territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u431	There you go!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u432	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 39.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u433	This amendment was not accepted in committee last Friday. It aims to remove Saint-Pierre-et-Miquelon from the device because unlike Mayotte, New Caledonia or Wallis-et-Futuna, there is no concern about the health situation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u434	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u435	I rely on the wisdom of the House.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u436	Mr Stéphane Claireaux has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u437	Above all, I would like to express my solidarity with our ultramarine compatriots in the crisis situation they are going through. It is true that Saint-Pierre-et-Miquelon is an atypical case overseas: the health situation is controlled and the virus is not circulating there. From the outset, the crisis has been very well managed, thanks in particular to constant and trust-based consultation between the prefect and local elected officials, and thanks to the attention of the overseas ministry. Thanks to a strong commitment by elected officials and all local officials to vaccination, the population, aware of the challenges facing the archipelago, responded by getting massive vaccinations: 86% of adults received a double dose. I therefore welcome the mobilization of the Saint-Pierrais and Miquelonnais to protect themselves and our territory. In the light of a controlled health situation, it does not seem necessary to keep Saint-Pierre-et-Miquelon in the bill. Guillaume Gouffier-Cha recalled earlier, it was a choice that was endorsed with our colleagues in the Senate, particularly during the work carried out by the rapporteur Jean-Pierre Pont. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group. – Mrs Maud Petit also applauds]] However, we must remain vigilant because, despite our efforts, we are obviously not immune from anything. But I know how to count on the responsibility and responsiveness of my fellow citizens in case of a hard blow.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u438	Amendment No 7 by Mrs Danièle Obono is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u439	I have before me two amendments, Nos 50 and 8, which can be discussed jointly. The Minister has the floor to support Amendment No. 50.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u440	Unfortunately, it was intended to change the status of the territory of New Caledonia. In the original version of the text, we took the precaution to foresee the possibility of triggering the state of health emergency in this community at a later date. However, several cases of covid-19 were detected at the beginning of the week. That is why, and this is the least we owe to Parliament, we propose that you include the declaration of the state of emergency in New Caledonia. I would remind you that this territory has had a very special status since the beginning of the pandemic, since it was not concerned with the circulation of the covid -19 – although, unfortunately, a first general confinement was introduced as a precaution. A second confinement was decided a few months ago, in order to respond once again to a question of health protection of the territory, which in fact allowed this territory to become free of covid -19 – or "free covid", as MP Gosselin said earlier. In addition, vaccination is progressing. I recall that French Polynesia and New Caledonia were the two territories that benefited first of all from the stocks of vaccines, as early as January. Above all, I remind the legislator that these two territories are communities in the Pacific – as parliamentarians are aware – and thus enjoy partial and competent health autonomy. This amendment was therefore, of course, discussed with the collegial government of New Caledonia and with all the political groups present at the community congress. The measure contained therein is thus aligned with the local decisions of the country and emanates from the territory. I propose that you take it back in the law of the Republic, in order to provide us with a legal basis for taking the necessary precautionary measures. I would add that all the health services in the country are mobilized, in conjunction with the High Commissioner, to carry out the famous tracing measures and try to reconstitute the various clusters throughout the country: I will once again have the opportunity to express my views on the particular situation in New Caledonia.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u441	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor to support Amendment No. 8.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u442	It was intended to exclude New Caledonia from the measures of the Government, whose amendment No. 50 tended to change the nature of the situation. However, our position remains the same, and the argument we have developed with regard to the other Overseas Territories also applies to New Caledonia. It should be noted that the Congress of New Caledonia was consulted, as the Government was constitutionally obliged to do. It is regrettable that this has not been the case, or at least that real discussions to take into account the words of local elected representatives have not taken place in the other territories, as we proposed. In the continuation of what we have previously defended, we hope that New Caledonia will not participate in the state of emergency and that another policy will be pursued in that territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u443	What is the committee's opinion on these two amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u444	The Government's amendment draws the consequences of the second confinement in New Caledonia and of the current deterioration of the situation in that territory, which, I would remind you, is the fourth in the world to make vaccination compulsory. The health context calls for strong and early measures to prevent further deterioration. That is why I am in favour of the Government's amendment and I am in favour of Mrs Obono's amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u445	What is the Government's opinion on Amendment No. 8?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u446	Since we started our work, I have not been able to participate in any controversy, even if there is much to say. I am surprised, however, that we are calling for a comprehensive response when we consider a text on a state of health emergency, and that we are just a few weeks away from the consideration of the Social Security Financing Bill, in which this debate could possibly take place. In any event, it seems surprising to me to have to explain to some parliamentarians, four years after the beginning of the legislature, that it is difficult to discuss issues other than those related to the text we are considering. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] That being said, Mrs Obono, I am pleased to hear from you about water in the West Indies, when your group did not support Mrs Benin's bill, which, once and for all, made it possible to move this issue forward.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u447	Right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u448	All of this I have kept for myself for a while, but since President Mélenchon has invited us not to be ideological in the management of the health crisis and because, by nature, I tend to believe what I am told, I wish to pause for a few seconds on what you have just said, Madam Member. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] To persevere in your view that, moreover, as a minister and republican, I respect – you are a parliamentarian and it is quite legitimate that you defend your opinion and your sensitivity in the Chamber – you come to explain that a territory of the Republic, free of covid-19 for now eighteen months and which discovers at the beginning of this week of first cases, must not be confined. However, this is the common sense answer to be given for good reasons. Indeed, in an archipelagic territory like this, containment simply helps to extinguish the epidemic. It is not a slogan: we have already done it once and it has worked. This has even made it possible to regain a genuine freedom, which consists not only of avoiding confinement, but also – I beg your pardon, Mrs Obono – not to have to wear a mask or to apply the barrier measures, because it is in this situation that New Caledonia finds itself. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] So you tell us that you are opposed to establishing a state of health emergency in this community, when it is the only way to protect lives, as well as our health care system. I'm sorry, but I'm afraid irrationality is at its peak here! I understand that we can say, "It's all we have to do." I also understand the electoral appetite that may exist for overseasers a few weeks from the presidential and legislative elections. I see the trial that can be done to us. I like politics – demagogy a little less – but, in this case, you just betrayed yourself, MP.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u449	But not at all!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u450	Your refusal to accept a state of emergency in New Caledonia brings down all the reasoning you've been holding for an hour and a half. You say "you have to," "you should have planned," "you have to do something else," "there's something other than vaccination." In reality, there is no choice but to confine. [[Vif applause on the benches of the groups LaREM, Dem, Agir ens and IDU-I]] The collegial authorities, the independenceists of FLNKS – Front de libération nationale Kanak et socialiste –, the UNI – Union nationale pour l'independence – and the UC – Union caledoniane – the loyalists, in short, all the political tendencies unanimously affirm that it is necessary to confide in order to protect themselves. And you, here, thousands of kilometres from Nouméa, you explain that no, that this is not a good idea, that you must do otherwise, by saying to them: "Circulate, there is nothing to see"! It's not responsible.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u451	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u452	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM and Dem groups]] I think the minister would have done better to keep quiet, as he has done since the beginning of our debates, rather than to intervene...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u453	A little respect!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u454	Mrs. Obono, please!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u455	Without being insulting, the terms he used were sufficiently clear. To consider that what we are doing and what we have been proposing for the past four years on overseas issues, in particular through our colleague Jean-Hugues Ratenon, would only be an electoral strategy seems to me to be an expression of contempt, condescendingness, a form of neocolonial paternalism towards our ultramarine fellow citizens. (Exclaims on the benches of the LaREM Group.)
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u456	You're ridiculous!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u457	The ultramarines would thus be citizens for whom the defence of access to egalitarian water, the defence of access to health, the defence of access to education would be part of electoral propaganda, clientelism!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u458	[[Exclaims on FI banks]] Thank you, Mrs. Obono.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u459	I believe that this is an absolutely unbearable contempt and that, rather than saying this kind of nonsense,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u460	Thank you, Mrs. Obono.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u461	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] ... you should accept the proposals we have been making for the past four years on this subject, which are quite consistent. No, we do not think that restricting freedoms anywhere is the right answer. It is the failure of your policy for more than a year that has led to this type of measure.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u462	You will go and explain all this to the New Caledonians!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u463	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor to support Amendment No. 9.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u464	It deals with the situation in French Polynesia. In this regard, I would like to refer to the written question I addressed to the Government last November on the situation of hospital infrastructure in that territory. In particular, I recalled that he owns 118 islands for a single hospital. This territory is large like Europe, its only hospital is in Tahiti and the other islands have only one clinic. Normally, any health concerns, such as unplanned deliveries, result in an emergency medical evacuation to Tahiti, which can take up to one day of travel. The hospital in Tahiti has only 400 beds. The already exhausted health-care staff are not in sufficient numbers and the training of new staff cannot be carried out at the pace required to accelerate the epidemic, given that no measures of sufficient magnitude have been taken so far. In October 2020, the Tahiti News Agency quoted this testimony illustrating the distress of hospital staff: "The sorting of patients, in case of saturation, [...] we had never thought about it. As an emergency nurse, I can say that we don't want to think about it, that we don't dare say that we've had to think about it, but, in fact, we're all very afraid of this. And if we don't do anything to stop the epidemic, these issues will be a reality." The nurse who spoke this way wanted to know what means the Ministry of Health intended to mobilize to deal with a more than disturbing situation. The health reserve – even if I welcome the investment of the caregivers who make up it – cannot be an answer when, for four years, the hospital has not been given sufficient means to deal with such situations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u465	We must conclude, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u466	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] That is why we believe that your measure is a bad palliative and we ask...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u467	Thank you, Mrs. Obono, we understand.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u468	What's that reasoning?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u469	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u470	Unfavorable opinion. The situation in French Polynesia is catastrophic. I will recall the figures I mentioned in committee, which have already been mentioned twice today. Last Friday, there were seventeen deaths. The previous week, the figure was even twenty-five, for a population of 280,000. Reported to the metropolis, such a ratio would represent 6,000 deaths in one day. The situation is therefore very catastrophic, which makes the extension of the state of health emergency absolutely mandatory in that territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u471	To the extent that there are still twelve amendments, I propose that you extend the sitting to complete the examination of the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u472	We come to the amendments on the additional article after the single article. Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor to support Amendments Nos 26, 27 and 28, which can be put together.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u473	I'll just ask you a little over two minutes to introduce them, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u474	Yes, go ahead, Congresswoman.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u475	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Minister, let's start by flattening things and avoid the stick effects. Don't pretend that we're only discovering the issue of water. I would point out that the group of La France insoumée has, from its first parliamentary niche, presented a proposal for a constitutional law to make access to water an inalienable right. I would also like to recall that we initiated an information mission on the management of conflicts of use in situations of water scarcity and another on water resources. Finally, we also used our right of drawing to set up a commission of inquiry into the control of water resources by private interests and its consequences, during which more than a third of the hearings were devoted to the overseas sector. That being said,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u476	Let's remember that you didn't vote for Justine Benin's bill!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u477	... I would like to strongly reaffirm – and I therefore hope that you will respond to these very important amendments – that the first health measure to be taken is not to restrict freedoms, but to guarantee the right to water and sanitation. As you know, the right to water is being violated overseas, which our fellow citizens are the first victims of. How do you want to stop the spread of a virus when you can't wash your hands, when you don't have access to water at home? In the committee of inquiry I mentioned, of which Olivier Serva was the rapporteur, we have conducted numerous hearings on this issue. In Mayotte, the subject of Amendment No 28, where the situation is certainly the most serious in the whole Republic, 31.5 % of families do not have running water. And when they have it, the Maori families spend on average 17 per cent of their budget to honour their water bill, knowing that 90 per cent of the island's population lives below the poverty line. Four out of ten housing units are in prison and 57 per cent of the housing units are overcrowded. At La Réunion, which is covered by Amendment No 26, the water resource is abundant, but suffers from a very serious quality problem: 46 per cent of Réunion's users are fed by networks that do not guarantee sufficient health security and 5 per cent have access to water with proven health risks. As for Martinique, which is dealt with in Amendment No 27, in addition to chlordecone poisoning, restrictions and turning water cuts are the daily routine of the inhabitants. Earlier, President Mélenchon said that there is an urgent need to renovate water and sanitation systems. He's right! In France, the annual consumption of 18.5 million people is running away, which not only constitutes a huge waste of water, but also undermines the dignity of so many of our fellow citizens, who do not have access to tap water. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] [[Same movements]] I'll finish on that, Mr. President. While renovation work is needed, the first step to take, when a state of emergency is declared, is at least to trigger the ORSEC drinking water plan, which allows drinking water bottles to be distributed to people who do not have access to running water. Secondly, it is imperative to put in place, especially in the territories that have been poisoned with chlordecone, a framework for the prices of water bottles, which represent an unbearable cost for our fellow citizens and ultramarine citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u478	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u479	Water is indeed an important issue overseas, as demonstrated by the recent commission of inquiry. Our colleague Olivier Serva points out in his report that this issue has not been ignored in the context of the health crisis. Thus, the Prefect of Guadeloupe, with the assistance of the local authorities, launched a punching operation, which opened water distribution points, in tanks and bottles; On the other hand, 3800 points of malfunction were repaired as a matter of urgency. It will therefore be an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u480	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u481	On this serious issue of water in the overseas regions, two situations must be distinguished: that of Mayotte, which is experiencing a crisis of distribution but also of production, due to the existence of a dry season and the increase of the population; Guadeloupe, which is facing a crisis not of production but of distribution, a crisis which is coupled with an ecological disaster, since the number of leaks, to put it plainly, is extremely worrying. Having had to deal with this matter under this quinquennium, first as Secretary of State for Ecology, and then as Deputy Minister for Local Government, I can say that the challenge for the Republic and for the State is to accompany the communities, which are competent in this field. What has always bothered me in the speeches of your political group is that, for reasons that concern you, you put multinationals, local authorities and the state in the same basket. However, water has always been a decentralized competence, historically within the communal bloc. On the one hand, we cannot praise decentralization and despise it when it suits us. The real challenge is to accompany the elected representatives of the Guadeloupéan communal bloc – to take up the most critical case – so that they invest massively in the water systems and absorb all the water leaks. This is the whole challenge that we have faced since the beginning of the quinquennium, first of all by devoting large sums of money to it – we can always sweep it with a back of our hands, but we can't go faster than music, especially because this money, we have had a hard time consuming it, because of the length of the work and the engineering problems, which sometimes require external reinforcements. Finally, all those who have been mayors or presidents of intercommunality know this: water governance is terribly complex, especially in an island or in an archipelago. That was the whole meaning of the bill by Justine Benin, Member of Parliament for Guadeloupe, as well as that of her colleague, Senator Théophile, aiming to create for the first time a common tool for developing investments. I will endeavour not to return to the path of anger that has seized me over New Caledonia, but allow me to tell you, in the most calm way, that, when you decided to abstain on this bill, you did not send a constructive signal of support from the Government or local elected officials. If we want to be serious about drinking water, we need to consider it in the long term. It is decades of delay that we must catch up with, and promise our fellow citizens that we can put water back in the taps in just a few months is a lie – I think we can agree on that. Money has been invested in the delivery of drinking water, through the recovery plan and in my ministry's overseas funds. With regard to the situation related to the health crisis, I would like to say that the prefects have taken measures of requisitioning water, which did not result in a shortage of drinking water during the periods of confinement. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] If you want to race to the shallot to know who has described the situation with the greatest catastrophism, free to you... Or go to the end of your logic and table a bill to recentralize drinking water competence: you will explain to the local elected representatives of Guadeloupe or Mayotte that they are not able to exercise this competence, but at least you will be consistent. For my part, I think that the local elected representatives are competent, and that they must be accompanied. That's what we've been doing since the beginning of this quinquennium.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u482	On Amendment No 28, I have received a request for a public vote from the La France group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr Olivier Serva has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u483	[[Smile on various benches]] In fact, I agree with everything that has just been said, both by Mathilde Panot and by the minister. Their remarks do not oppose but complement each other.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u484	It's a position of balance.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u485	We listen to you with interest, Mr. Serva!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u486	If water competence is a local competence, we are in a state of health emergency, and it is true that, on the ground, there are sometimes water cuts, which prevent the inhabitants from respecting sanitary conditions, if only by washing their hands. And I was able to see that the minister's chief of staff, former prefect of Guadeloupe, had ordered requisitions of water to remedy the shortcomings at the local level, and the State had to guarantee health security in the territory. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] The State must therefore be extremely vigilant with regard to water cuts. Health security will be compromised if, despite the goodwill of the local elected representatives and despite the establishment of the joint open union, the SMO, which is an excellent thing, people no longer have water on the tap. In accordance with our committee of inquiry's proposal 66, which was unanimously adopted, the State must ensure access to water and be able to trigger the ORSEC water plan.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u487	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u488	Let me clarify some things. First of all, when we regretted that within the SMO, the citizens had only an advisory power, not a decision-making power, we shared the feeling of many associations and collectives of users.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u489	Yeah, but it doesn't give the faucet water!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u490	Your own chief of staff, formerly prefect, himself said that if we resumed the same to start over, we would fall back into a dead end: I agree with him. Not only was the place of the users not the right place, but the question of public administration or public service delegation was not decided, nor was the question of debts, despite the proposals we had made. That is why we abstained on Justine Benin's bill. That's what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u491	They're not convincing!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u492	As far as water competence is concerned, we are not for its recentralisation and we are defending a communal competence, with which we have no problems.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u493	That's it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u494	The problem, what is it? It is that one cannot always fall behind the communal level or the local competence. In fact, the State made requisitions when children could no longer go to school because there was no water or there was no water in the hospital or there was fecal material in the water. When the problem of sanitation is such that, if nothing is done, there will be no more water, good or bad, in Guadeloupe within ten years, the State must intervene and trigger the ORSEC plan, as is done in the case of natural disasters. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group. – Nicolas Dupont-Aignan also applauds]] We're in the middle of a covid crisis, and I've met people who haven't had running water in their homes for six years. If we want to be sure that everyone has access to drinking water, which is essential to curb and overcome this epidemic, we must trigger this ORSEC plan, regulate the price of water bottles and organize distributions for those who do not have water at home. It is a measure of urgency and common sense.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u495	Mrs Justine Benin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u496	I am proud to have defended, together with my colleague Senator Dominique Théophile and all the members of Parliament from Guadeloupe, the bill to renew water governance. We've done a lot of audition work. Who better than Guadeloupees like us could understand the worries and difficulties encountered on the ground? We must not reopen this gaping wound, we need appeasement, especially on issues that have been the subject of constructive dialogue between parliamentarians and all local elected representatives. I am also proud that all of Guadeloupe's elected representatives met the deadlines and that the SMO, including the major communities, was created on 1 September with the election of its President Jean-Louis Francisque. Finally, I am proud of this symbol of unity, which we all wanted since 2009, of solidarity and constructive and peaceful dialogue.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u497	That is why we did not vote against your bill!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u498	[[Vif applause on the benches of the groups LaREM, Dem, Agir ens and IDU-I]] Much remains to be done, but as we discuss the state of health emergency, the content of our debates is burdening me. I receive text messages from families who look at us and consider them intolerable after so many deaths, for which the funeral directors had to buy five- or six-foot containers to house the corpses and coffins. I am sad because, on the local radio, the journalist asked in Creole: "Organizé zot! ("Organize! ), after, for the first time, the reading of the death notices lasted from thirteen hours forty-five to sixteen thirty hours. This has been difficult for our people. [[Same movements]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is always difficult for me to speak in this House, but I ask you to think of the many families who have lost so much in all the overseas territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u499	Yeah...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u500	I put to the vote Amendment No. 28.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u501	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 98 Number of votes cast 94 Absolute majority 48 For adoption 15 Against 79
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u502	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor to support Amendment No. 29.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u503	Before defending my amendment, I would point out that I did not question the SMO. We supported its creation but wanted to improve it, which is why we voted against the PLP. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] With this amendment, we propose for Guadeloupe, which the majority have just rejected for Mayotte, namely that in time of epidemic, the state sets a maximum price for plastic water bottles and that they are distributed to families without water. We're not asking for anything extraordinary! In the event of a natural disaster or a flood or storm, the state is already doing so: are we not in an absolutely exceptional and unbearable situation, with, as you said, Mrs Benin, bereaved families and people dying? That is what we are talking about, and the right to water is the first of the health measures to be put in place, to curb the epidemic and to save lives.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u504	Stop!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u505	I put the case of Guadeloupe aside because, during the committee of inquiry, we spent ten days there. In Guadeloupe, we are in a situation where caregivers, as many of you have said, explain that they are obliged to sort patients, that the hospital has become a dying place, that they sometimes have to wash patients in Cologne water, for lack of water. This is a situation where families do not have access to water: they are in permanent water towers, some of which do not even work anymore; Some are not even connected to it. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] In this territory where almost 400,000 of our compatriots live, there are, in normal times, only twenty-seven resuscitation beds, when a city like Rennes, in times of epidemic, has more than two hundred per half fewer inhabitants. I urge you to listen to the demands of collectives and associations: it is imperative to guarantee the right to water in this territory if we really want to curb the epidemic.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u506	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u507	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u508	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u509	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u510	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u511	These additional amendments make proposals. It has been said that the deputies of unsuspecting France did not propose anything,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u512	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u513	...what is wrong: the work done by the committee of inquiry proves the opposite, as well as the work we have done over the last four years. I was present in committee on your text, Mr Benin, and Mathilde Panot was in open session; We had criticism and tabled amendments that made proposals that were not adopted – that is why we decided not to vote for the text – but we welcomed your initiative, because we were, and we are still, in a constructive way. [[Claims on several banks of the LaREM Group]] Yes, we take the time to discuss because, for us, this text is not a technical text. I believe that it is not in the eyes of our fellow citizens either. For the past year and a half, we have expressed our disagreements; We have also, each time, had to submit proposals. This is a concrete step towards using existing tools. The minimum would be to listen and respond in substance. Why don't you vote for the use of an existing device,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u514	It's not about the law!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u515	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] ...who is in the domain of the law and who would be able to respond to the health emergency that is now ravaging? If it is out of respect for the work we have been doing for four years, at least respect the fact that we are, like you, committed to saving the maximum number of lives. It is the minimum on a subject that raises the devastating question of the responsibilities we consider to have, like you, towards the overseas countries and territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u516	Mr Max Mathiasin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u517	I very much appreciated the way in which Mrs Panot conducted the work of the Committee of Inquiry on Water Management, which shed light on many of the problems. They also found that, beyond the question of the SMO, there is an urgent need to find funding to enable residents to access tap water in Guadeloupe. The issue of the SMO does not solve the problem. I also appreciate hearing her say that these families needed water. That is why I wanted to introduce an article 2, which was considered inadmissible. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] To set up a state of health emergency without assessing the material means necessary to prevent future crises is to put a cautère on a wooden leg. We need equipment. We must also stop saying that local and regional authorities are the only ones responsible. We have been living with 25 per cent of the unemployed for 30 years, 40 per cent of whom are young people under the age of 25: a coherent policy, a development plan, a project that integrates both a health policy, an active economic policy, a water policy and a policy for real equality.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u518	We are in extended session; I therefore confine myself to the two statements provided for in the Rules of Procedure. I put to the vote Amendment No. 29.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u519	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 99 Number of votes cast 89 Absolute majority 45 For adoption 16 Against 73
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u520	Mr Gérard Leseul has the floor to support Amendment No. 34.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u521	In line with what I said earlier, it aims at setting up a national health emergency monitoring committee in the overseas countries and territories. This committee would be responsible for strengthening dialogue, information sharing and inter-ministerial coordination around the overseas health crisis; It should be able to give opinions on all matters related to the state of health emergency and the covid -19 epidemic, including on measures to be taken to strengthen the resilience of ultramarine territories in the event of a resumption of the crisis. [[Mr. Max Mathiasin applauds]] The aim is to engage in a strategic dialogue between the State and the ultramarine territories, including on non-healthy issues directly related to the current crisis, such as economic recovery or public access to quality public services. This first step towards a more comprehensive committee would be adapted to the urgency we are debating today.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u522	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u523	I am not in favour of giving a report or setting up a committee. Our energy must be concentrated on crisis management and the rise of solidarity mechanisms, especially since both Houses of Parliament already have a delegation to the overseas countries and territories. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u524	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u525	Same opinion. However, I would like to reassure parliamentarians that these committees exist, and I myself chaired one of them in an emergency, in the middle of August, in the two territories concerned. They include not only local elected officials, parliamentarians, state services, the regional health agency, but also liberal medicine. If the scheme were not sufficient, it would be possible to adapt it without going through the law. However, if we tell each other the truth, we must admit that there are more and more absentees to these committees; We can force things by law, but in practice and in time, distance is done. Nevertheless, Mr. Leseul, your reasoning is right and we share your attitude. To inform all our fellow citizens, we could perhaps publish on the site of the prefectures of the territories concerned the attendance sheet of the participants, which would allow everyone to check who is invited is, if necessary, coming. Because – I'm not talking about you, Member, but I thought I heard things in general discussion – those who are asking for more consideration and partnership in the way they work are generally those who are not present at the meetings organised by my firm, the prefects or the directors general of the ARS. Since I have only one purpose, the truth and the information of our citizens, and since transparency seems to me to be a good thing in a democracy, I ask you to withdraw your amendment. If necessary, we could think about extending the committees to associations, but it is especially important to say, in a transparent way, who really comes to these committees. That would be of interest to most of our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u526	Mr Nicolas Dupont-Aignan has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u527	It is probably a good intention of our colleague to propose a new committee. However, I would like to go back to the previous discussion and regret that the House has not, in a spirit of wisdom and national cohesion, voted on the previous amendments on water. There's a lot of committees, there's a lot of elected officials, there's everything we want, and there's no drinking water on the tap in Guadeloupe! There you go. It is staggering to think that in the midst of a health crisis, we are only able to vote for an emergency bill to lock up its inhabitants. I would also like you, Minister, to answer three very simple questions. First question: in areas where habitat is often overcrowded, with a lot of unsanitaryness, is containment so relevant? Has there been a specific study? I don't think so. [[Mr Raphaël Gérard exclaimed]] Second question: the free prescription of ivermectin by doctors has been refused to Guadeloupe, and I maintain that many people have been saved in many departments and countries thanks to this medicine: why is it not possible in Guadeloupe? Third question: on 15 September, given the number of non-vaccinated caregivers in Guadeloupe and Martinique, are you going to suspend nurses, caregivers, doctors? Will you, yes or no, apply the law? I would like specific answers; that would honor national representation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u528	Mr Gérard Leseul has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u529	I thank the minister for his answer, but it dealt with the following amendment. There are two amendments: the first, under discussion, aims to set up a national monitoring committee for the state of health emergency in the overseas countries and territories in order to open a dialogue with representatives of all departments and local and regional authorities and ministries; the following tends to create local committees. I therefore ask you, minister, to consider this idea of a national committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u530	Mr Gérard Leseul has the floor to support Amendment No. 30.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u531	Defendant. Perhaps the minister will now respond to the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u532	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u533	Local committees are an interesting idea, but it seems more appropriate to allow the territories, when they wish, to organize themselves according to their specificities and according to the arrangements they determine.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u534	What about the prefect's role?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u535	Thus, the Martinique committee, which was cited as an example, included only seven personalities, none of whom were drawn by lot. I propose that the Territories be given flexibility; opinion against an overly restrictive scheme.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u536	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u537	Request for withdrawal or, failing that, unfavorable notice. By the previous amendment, you suggested, in the end, that a sort of parliament should be established, since it is above all before the National Assembly and the Senate that the Government is accountable for what is happening. In a representative democracy, the system works as it is. On the local committees, I spoke earlier. I have made commitments to you and I understand that the existing committees are working well.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u538	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u539	I would like to support this amendment by Mr Leseul, who is cross-checking an amendment that we have tabled that is considered inadmissible. The minister proposed, in his response, to post the names of the elected officials who were absent, but it might be necessary to ask why they were absent. The agenda and the way in which decisions are taken make it impossible for elected representatives to find their place, let alone citizens and collectives. If the reality of the debates were to be seen, it would be seen that, in the overseas and the rest of the country, health democracy has not been at work. Organizing consultative meetings where, in reality, the representatives of the State announce what has already been decided and where the elected representatives only act of presence does not, in our view, constitute an adequate response. Perhaps that is why these requests are renewed: committees, organized as they currently are, look like empty shells. We therefore propose to improve the current arrangements, by opening these committees to citizens drawn from lots, which would, in particular, allow us to engage in a dialogue with people who are not convinced of the vaccination campaign. That is why this amendment, similar to the one we tabled, deserves to be adopted.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u540	Mrs Maina Sage has the floor in support of Amendment No 36.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u541	You say, Minister, that local committees with broad representation exist in the overseas departments. This is not the case in French Polynesia, even if we have information about our territory. This amendment proposes to systematize the transmission of information to the two delegations overseas in Parliament. As you have pointed out, it is important that a dialogue be established between the Government and Parliament, as was the case during the state of emergency to combat terrorism. It is desirable that full information on the Overseas Territories should be disseminated not only to the overseas elected representatives, but also to all national representatives. The situation is unprecedented and, unfortunately, extremely serious: brought back to the national level, it would amount to ten times the peak we experienced last year. Since, at national level, a Health Defence Council was set up to deal with a situation ten times less serious, the Overseas Territories would like to have an organisation of the same type, in order to be regularly informed, in detail, even during the time needed to stop the crisis. To briefly review what has been said about the hospital center of French Polynesia,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u542	Briefly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u543	[[Applause on the benches of the Action ens group]] ... I would like to stress that, while there are crisis-related needs, the Overseas Territories also have their own resources. The sharing of information would allow everyone to get in tune and work on medium- and long-term solutions, such as a major health plan for the overseas region, whose crisis has revealed the need.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u544	On amendment No 11, I have received a request for a public vote from the La France group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u545	Article L. 3131-13 of the Public Health Code has already organised, since 23 March 2020, the parliamentary mechanism for monitoring the state of health emergency, which applies to the overseas territories. It is already planned that the National Assembly and the Senate will be informed without delay of the measures taken by the Government in connection with the state of emergency. Similarly, the two Assemblies may require any additional information in connection with the monitoring and evaluation of these measures. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u546	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u547	I am not in favour of the creation of a national comitology.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u548	The subject of my amendment is broader.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u549	Of course, but given the way in which the amendment is drafted, that is what would lead to its adoption. However, the information you are asking for comes primarily from the work of the National Assembly and the Senate, both having a delegation to the overseas countries and territories, not to mention the meetings of the Standing Committee. Olivier Véran and I are also at the disposal of Parliament for further clarification. With regard to your second question – the support of each of the territorial actors in the day-to-day crisis management – I would point out, Madam Member, that it is relatively new to the autonomous territories, since no health crisis has occurred since French Polynesia had such a status: whatever our political sensitivities, we can recognise this fact. The situation in New Caledonia may be even more difficult, given the institutional timetable. In French Polynesia, a strong relationship was established between President Fritch and the High Commissioner of the Republic, Dominique Sorain, and it was very useful, since such moments of crisis are not specifically provided for in the statutes. For example, vaccines were delivered free of charge to the French Polynesian government, which constituted a sprain, even if it was positive and benevolent, to its autonomy. However, this situation will have to be addressed, as some, including the Tavanas, the mayors of French Polynesia, have questioned the various measures that have been taken. I have the feeling that Dominique Sorain has done everything possible to inform all the mayors, in connection with the President of French Polynesia, but I suggest to you, Madam Member, that all the stakeholders in the territory, when the time comes, come back to experience the crisis, which seems to me to be premature in view of the health situation on the spot. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM groups and Action ens]] One more word on the amendment that you were unable to table, which was intended to establish the legal basis for information systems provided for by the Law of the Country of 21 April 2020, in order to allow all the elected representatives of Polynesia – this may also be the case for those of New Caledonia – to benefit from these information systems. I am undertaking here, on behalf of the Government, to use an ordinance on the basis of article 74(1) of the Constitution to create this legal basis.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u550	Mrs Maina Sage has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u551	There are already provisions in the public health code, Mr rapporteur, but my amendment was intended to clarify this scheme, because the overseas territories lack specific data. I would also like to thank you, Mr Minister, for your reply on the security of control devices, at the request of French Polynesia, which, as you know, has worked on this point with the local representatives of the State. I would appreciate it if you could quickly take this order, which is very much expected by the local authorities. [[Applause on the banks of the Action ens, GDR and FI groups]] In this respect, the aim is not to set up an umpteenth committee, but to promote transparency by systematising information on staff and resources. Thus, everyone will be at the same level of information. I am convinced that the State is doing its utmost, but, given the persistence of the health crisis, even if it is only for a month or two, the information must circulate regularly. We had asked the Government on the same subject last year, and the Government had heard us. I would add that I did not speak very much during the debate and that I wanted to do so, even if we are in the process of concluding.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u552	Mr Philippe Gosselin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u553	I support our colleague's amendment. The rapporteur is right to point out that Parliament is supposed to have the information regularly: supposedly, because this is not always the case. In addition, the mass of these is sometimes so large that it is difficult to find themselves there. However, it is not just a question of having information, but also of being able to exploit it and to draw a substantial bone marrow from it, which is not so simple. The aim is not to make the ultramarine territories separate. The two parliamentary assemblies comprise a delegation to the overseas countries and territories. But there is a wide variety of statutes – you referred to them, Minister – between the overseas countries (OCTs), the COMs (overseas communities), the ex-DOMs (overseas departments), even though they are almost all sui generis. With so many different statutes and territories, including geographical ones, it seems to me appropriate to be able to have an ad hoc body: the aim is not to create a Theodule Committee, but to give more information to the overseas delegations and to enrich the parliamentary debate, thus democratic control.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u554	Mrs Bénédicte Taurine has the floor to support Amendment No. 11.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u555	It is intended to insert the following article. "Within one month of the enactment of the Act, the Government shall submit to Parliament a report on the implementation of an emergency plan for public hospitals in the Overseas Territories during the period of state of emergency. This report details the financial and human resources to be used to deal with the health crisis, in particular the openings of resuscitation beds, rehabilitations, the purchase of medical equipment and the salary adjustments planned for caregivers, in order to enable them to exercise in dignified conditions. With this appeal amendment, we will again alert you to the state of public hospitals, particularly those in the overseas countries, whose situation requires the implementation of an emergency plan. Since the beginning of the health crisis, everyone has been able to observe the situation of material disarmament in which hospitals are placed. Everything was missing: blouses, masks, overblouses, bottles of dioxygen, resuscitation beds. To this material precariousness is added a financial precariousness, which weighs on all the caregivers, whose low wages are unworthy of the essential functions they occupy. So it's not enough to fight our ears with the Segur of Health,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u556	Oh!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u557	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] ...of which everyone understood that he was insufficient. The chaotic situation in the overseas countries is the result of the abandonment of these territories, and of 30 years of liberalisation and privatisation: public-private partnerships, fee-for-service, ONDAM (national health insurance expenditure target) and other devices taken from the neoliberal toolbox have made patients into commodities, cost investments and carers into adjustment variables.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u558	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u559	I do not agree with the request for a report, especially since the information is accessible and documented. With regard to the specific case of the university hospital centres in Guadeloupe and La Réunion, I refer you to the report of the delegation to the overseas countries and territories. With regard to the activity and capacity of health facilities in the overseas departments and regions, I invite you to consult the very detailed notes of the Directorate of Research, Studies, Evaluation and Statistics of the Ministry of Solidarity and Health. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u560	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u561	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u562	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u563	We agree, Mr rapporteur. You know the situation, but for the past four years, you have not put the means to respond to it. That is why we have tabled this appeal amendment to question you on this issue. We will continue this debate during the examination of the PLFSS, even if your refusal to question you about the reason for such a level of tension, while the crisis has created a state of health emergency and requires reflection on the policies to be carried out, is aberrant. In Martinique and Guadeloupe, caregivers were the first to mobilize in the street, opposing the health pass and saying that they rejected the policy pursued in recent years. While they should be the driving force behind the vaccination campaign and the implementation of health policy, many of them show absolute distrust or even opposition to what you are doing. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] That is why we are asking for this report, as well as for additional means, other than those which are known to be inadequate, presented in the Segur of Health. Caregivers and overseas hospitals expect concrete answers from the Government in the short time you have left.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u564	I put to the vote Amendment No 11.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u565	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 96 Number of votes cast 93 Absolute majority 47 For adoption 17 Against 76
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u566	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor to support Amendment No. 13.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u567	It's an appeal amendment. I suspected, minister, when I asked you about the situation of the caregivers, whether they were stationed or no longer there and called for reinforcement, that you would not answer me. On the other hand, throughout the evening I have observed your tendency towards guilt and I think it has become a very French art of making parliamentarians feel guilty that we are as much as caregivers. [[Exclaims on a few benches of the LaREM group]] You said earlier, Mr rapporteur, that so many deaths in such an overseas territory or department – I don't know – were equivalent to so many deaths in metropolitan France. But what are you doing, what is the Government doing? Where's the oxygen, where's the carers, where's the beds? What is the Government doing to avoid all these deaths, instead of blaming the banks of unsuspecting France, to caricature us, the bad guys, the unconscious? I know there are caregivers here, but I'm not the one who packed corpses in covers that you'll be able to feel guilty about. The guilt's over. It's been months since you've been told that governing is planning; and it's been decades since that, but you don't want to hear it: you prefer to improvise. There is nothing in this bill to allow hospitals and caregivers to receive patients. The vaccine strategy is important and we defend it, but you cannot rely on the vaccine strategy: you must be able to receive patients, you must be able to treat them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u568	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u569	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u570	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u571	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u572	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u573	You can't handle everything in improvisation. We need oxygen, we need carers. You have nevertheless succeeded in a feat that no one had succeeded before you, you who do not stop blaming the right and the socialists what they have not been able to do: you are still the first to trigger a white plan in Aulnay-sous-Bois, because all the staff are in burn-out!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u574	It will not have escaped you that we are in a pandemic!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u575	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u576	[[Claims on several banks of the LaREM Group]] [[Mrs. Danièle Obono applauds]] On the other hand, you know how to brag the Segur of Health to say, "We are the most beautiful, we are the best. One hundred and eighty euros is beautiful – I touched them because I went back to work in the hospital – but that's not enough. Minister, what are you going to do other than ask for help from experienced caregivers by e-mail... There's only the truth that bothers you!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u577	[[Applause on several benches in the FI group]] Please, ladies and gentlemen, we are in an extended session. We are going to be concise, without hearing more speakers than the Rules of Procedure allow, until the end of our debates. Let us allow the speaker to speak: I do not have to judge the appropriateness of his remarks as long as they remain in our debate. [[Exclaims on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Mrs Fiat, you have 30 seconds left to conclude, and I will give the floor to a second speaker before we proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u578	[[Applause on a few benches of the FI group]] Minister, when you don't have enough caregivers in metropolitan France, how will you send them overseas? What about oxygen therapy when oxygen is missing? When the water itself is missing, how do we simply respect the barrier gestures? That was the meaning of the amendments which we proposed to you on these benches and which you refused. Barrier gestures are essential, even before vaccination, and the first barrier gesture is washing your hands: how do you do it when you don't have water? We're really walking on our heads!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u579	Mr Nicolas Dupont-Aignan has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u580	Mr President, I do not wish to delay this sitting, but I would still like to have some answers to my questions, but it would still be normal, especially to the following question: whether we regret it or not, many caregivers, overseas, will not be vaccinated or will not have started their vaccination journey on 15 September: what are you going to do, at a time when there are so few means for the public hospital, where we lack beds, where the situation is so serious? Are you going to take your responsibilities and allow these caregivers to continue their work in the service of patients? This serious question, hundreds of caregivers are asking themselves overseas and they would like to have an answer. It's September 7th! Mrs Fiat is absolutely right to talk about improvisation, day-to-day management. It is surreal to have such a debate today, almost two years after the start of the health crisis.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u581	Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor to support Amendment No 12.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u582	With this amendment, the Group of the European People's Party calls for a report presenting the consequences of poverty on the number of serious cases and deaths resulting from covid-19 in the overseas countries and territories. The Commission of Inquiry into the Management of the Covid -19 Epidemic highlighted the explosion of inequalities due to the pandemic and the breakdown of equality between citizens and the territories it exacerbated. Depending on the territory and the individual, the risks and consequences to each individual vary, making this crisis a catalyst for social inequalities in France, which it reveals and increases seriously. Overseas, people face the crisis of the Covid-19 in a different way depending on their particularities. In the West Indies and La Réunion, for example, populations are aging and suffer from Pluripathologies – diabetes, obesity or respiratory inadequacies, aggravating factors of covid – due to pre-existing problems. [[Applause on the benches of the FI groups]] Everywhere, socio-economic inequalities and structural failures – inadequate sanitation, lack of infrastructure to provide access to water, territorial discontinuities, expensive living, high unemployment, less social protection, etc. – aggravate the effects of the epidemic, even when it seems relatively contained. That is why we are asking for such a report.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u583	On the bill as a whole, I am seized of a request for a public vote by the La France group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u584	I would like to refer you to the important work of Public Health France on the subject of covid and precariousness. So that's an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u585	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u586	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u587	Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u588	[[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] Could you elaborate on your remarks, Mr. Rapporteur? What's the relationship? If you were aware of the reality of our territories, why refuse to face it and realize that the best way to combat covid and the epidemics of which the overseas territories are unfortunately often victims is to fight poverty and isolation? I find your remarks unacceptable and ask for explanations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u589	Mr Thierry Michels has the floor to support Amendment No 41.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u590	The peak line drawn by the President of the Republic and the Government, with the support of the majority, with a health pass that consolidates our social life and stimulates the spread of vaccination is a little more practical every day, as we move forward. In the face of this success, should we not start a further step by allowing more companies to impose the health pass? In July, I was already proposing, together with other colleagues, to systematize the debate on the health pass and vaccination within the Social and Economic Committee and to give companies the freedom to extend the health pass within their ranks in the context of the dialogue with the social partners. This text is an opportunity for me to recall the importance of the company, both in the overseas territories and in the metropolitan areas, as a place for debate and action in the fight against the pandemic. Hence this proposal for a report requested from the Government on the possibilities of extending the health pass to all overseas companies, with the aim of protecting the safety and health of employees and stakeholders in companies, the contribution of these same companies to the fight against the pandemic through preventive measures, in support of the dynamics of vaccination.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u591	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u592	Article 15 of the Act of 5 August already provides that in undertakings and establishments with at least 50 employees, the employer shall, without delay by any means, inform the Social and Economic Committee of the control measures resulting from the implementation of the obligations laid down in the Act on the management of the exit from a health crisis. As far as the health pass is concerned, we will probably have this debate this autumn, but given the low rate of vaccination overseas, the priority is to adapt rather than to extend it. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u593	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u594	Same opinion, Congressman. I would add that it may be difficult to talk about the assessment of the pass when it comes to a state of health emergency. As I have publicly committed myself to it, there is no question of going faster than music, in territories that are confined or under curfew. Secondly, as I have said on many occasions and as Olivier Véran has repeated in questions to the Government, it will be a matter of adapting it. In fact, contrary to what has been heard here or there since the beginning of our discussions, we have constantly adapted all the rules to each overseas territory. In Guyana, a territory large like Portugal, the virus does not circulate in the same way on Maroni and Cayenne. We have therefore spent our time adapting these rules to seasonality or other criteria, and we will continue to do so by dialogue with the elected representatives, because we defend representative democracy, not only for some, but also for social democracy, including joint employers' or wage organisations. I see, of course, in your request for a report an appeal to the state authorities to ensure that the legal authorities of the companies are well informed, but this is not specific to the overseas territories. I will therefore ask you to withdraw your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u595	In the explanations of vote on the whole text, the floor is for Mr Guillaume Gouffier-Cha.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u596	The Group of the European People's Party will, of course, vote in favour of this text, after having heard the clarifications made, in particular, by the Minister in his opening remarks and all his clarifications which fully justify the fact that we have met urgently to vote for this extension of the health emergency regime in the ultramarine territories. We have made this decision, not of gaiety of heart, as difficult as it is, but of responsibility, in view of the reality of the health crisis, which obliges us not to give in to the sirens of "there is only to, must be" or theoretical debates, but to act, act to protect lives, act to enable caregivers to do their work, act to beat this virus and to make this crisis behind us. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM groups and Action ens]] That is why we will vote for this text with a particularly strong thought this evening for all the healthcare workers who are always involved in this fight against this virus, especially in the ultramarine territories, as well as for all our ultramarine fellow citizens who are experiencing particularly difficult moments of sadness and anxiety.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u597	Mrs Justine Benin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u598	As I said in the general debate, I repeat: the time is serious for the Overseas Territories and we have examined this text with collective responsibility for the health situation in our territories. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] The seriousness of the situation requires, you understand, probity, solidarity and unity in order to combat the pandemic effectively. We must therefore continue our efforts to stop the spread of a virus that has already taken so many lives and weighs on the daily lives of people. We must therefore move forward together, providing us with the necessary means to get out of this crisis from the top. The Dem Group will of course vote in favour of this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u599	Mrs Maina Sage has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u600	Of course, the Group of the European People's Party will support this text, which is essential in order to have an exceptional framework, to apply the braking measures which will limit the spread of this unprecedented epidemic, but also exceptional measures of economic support, Mr Minister, as my colleague has said, the economic and social impact of the crisis is worrying: the sooner we get through, the better everyone will be. I wish good courage to all the forces mobilized, the caregivers in the first place but also the authorities and all those involved in the fight against this health crisis. I will finally have a special thought for all the families affected by these tragedies. Thank you for being here tonight to support this text. (Applause from the Action ens, LaREM and Dem groups) – Mr Guillaume Larrivé also applauds.)
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u601	Mrs Beatrice Descamps has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u602	In the preamble, the IDU-I Group wishes to renew its expression of gratitude and support for caregivers who agree to increase the ranks of those who are on the front line in the ultramarine territories. This bill is urgently needed to ensure in French Polynesia the continuity of the state of emergency health which, without this law, will expire in a few days. The incidence rate of the disease in some ultramarine territories, the rate of vaccination of the population and mortality are at stake. We hope that this crisis will be overcome thanks to respect for the barriers and, unfortunately, thanks to the restrictive measures of freedom, but also, of course, thanks to vaccination. Minister, how can the state restore confidence in vaccination overseas? It is indeed, for the time being, the vaccination that will allow us to emerge from these epidemic waves, from the macabre count of daily deaths and from the horror of sorting the sick by favouring those who are most likely to get out of it. Let us also ask ourselves now what has led us to this situation: the shortcomings in infrastructure and care services, the importance of co-morbidities. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-I, LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] In these difficult times, we must be present for our ultramarine compatriots. Let us commit ourselves now that this solidarity does not stop with the crisis. As you will understand, the IDU-I group will vote on the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u603	Mr Gérard Leseul has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u604	As I mentioned earlier, the Socialist and Related Group will be voting, as a matter of responsibility, for this text allowing the extension of the state of emergency in the ultramarine territories. It is a necessity for us in view of the health situation and the circulation of the virus, and therefore the daily risks experienced by our ultramarine fellow citizens. However, it is necessary to put in place additional material and financial resources at the same time to deal with this violent and deadly situation. The public authorities will have to respond in all areas and put in place the simple and effective safety nets that enabled companies, artisans and employees to cope with the previous waves. It is about the resilience of territories and populations. I insist on the word "simultaneously". We cannot, in fact, satisfy ourselves with this only urgent text. Additional resources and accompanying measures are needed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u605	Mr Moetai Brotherson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u606	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] The GDR Group is not uniform in its vote on this text, which will be voted on by its overseas component. I did not think that the debates would take so long and thought that we were going to speed up this matter, but, after all, this House is the place for the debates. We will probably have other meetings because, as our colleague Jean-Philippe Nilor said in his excellent speech, there are still substantive issues to be discussed about overseas, such as the state of health, the health system and society in general. However, the urgency, at least as far as I am concerned, recommends that this text be voted on.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u607	Mr Philippe Gosselin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u608	[[Mr. Max Mathiasin applauds]] Like others, the Republicans have special thoughts for all those who are suffering today. It is important to recall this empathy, which is present, and which is also expressed towards caregivers. We also welcome the gestures of solidarity that are taking place. We have seen the mobilization of French communes, such as Sainte-Suzanne-sur-Vire, in my constituency, which does so for the commune of Deshaies, Guadeloupe. I'm also thinking about those mid-week caregivers. We must also see these small lights that shine in spaces that may seem very difficult to manage, with great sadness and deuils. It is also important to be able to respond to such a serious situation through appropriate means. You know my prevention of the state of health emergency, which is an exorbitant right of common law – preventions big enough to make me wish that we avoid returning to it regularly. What is proposed here is two months of prolongation of this state of emergency, until 15 November. These are heavy and difficult means, but they are necessary in the light of the situation. However, it is not necessary to generalize, since there are many different situations in different territories, and there can be no amalgamation. [[Mrs Maud Petit applauds]] The state of health emergency cannot under any circumstances be a dry measure, alpha and omega, capable of solving all situations. There is obviously a need for economic support, as requested by FEDOM, business leaders, artisans and employees. It also takes a lot of pedagogy to give confidence in vaccination – no anathema or chin movements giving lessons of I-do-know-what. It must also be recognised that, as our discussions have shown, there are shortcomings in public facilities. It doesn't all work out in a day. The statutes must also be respected. The State must be exemplary alongside local elected officials and different populations. That is the conditions under which we will vote in favour of this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u609	Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u610	The La France insoumise group will vote against this bill – it is no secret for anyone in this House –,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u611	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u612	...for we have a project that respects the freedom of French and French people. This law allows a battery of measures made available to Macron ideology and I regret that many here fall into this trap. I recall that the Government's main objective is vaccination overseas, and that we will remain opposed to the vaccination obligation, even if we are for vaccination. The text before us is technical and it is regrettable that it does not address the fundamental problems, such as the lack of oxygen in some overseas departments and the monopoly in this area. Nor does it address the problem of public service, the lack of human and financial resources that are sorely lacking in us. What about the price of life, which explodes because of, among other things, your mismanagement of the health crisis? [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] You want to make people feel guilty, and your main goal is to create all the conditions for people to lose confidence in themselves. Whether in terms of treatments or alternative measures to containment, you don't propose anything. You have, moreover, rejected all our amendments – the minimum would have been to accept that of our colleague Mathilde Panot in order to ensure water for the citizens, but you have refused even that minimum, and I find that regrettable. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group. Jean-Philippe Nilor also applauds]] I expect that this specific law that you are proposing today will be followed by others, in particular on mass unemployment, the ageing of the population and the measures to be implemented, on the problem of water, which I mentioned earlier, on the fight against illiteracy and on the cost of life. I have no doubt that, just as we have dealt specifically with all the overseas territories today, you will propose specific laws to us next week to deal with these problems. But, with your government, you must not dream: what you have not done in four years, you are not going to do at the end of your term of office!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u613	I put the whole bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u614	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 104 Number of votes cast 103 Absolute majority 52 For adoption 90 Against 13
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-07-E2001.u615	The meeting is adjourned.
