ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u1	The next item is the debate on the bill by Mr Boris Vallaud,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u2	And Mr. Saulignac!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u3	...Mr. Hervé Saulignac, and several of their colleagues on the creation of individual support for solidarity emancipation (No 3724, 3876).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u4	Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u5	It is based on Rule 48 of our Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary niches. Eighty-three years ago, on 18 February, the law authorized women to enrol in university without their husbands' permission. Today, 18 February 2021, the law could have improved the fate of women by making effective the right to abortion – voluntary termination of pregnancy. But the Republicans decided otherwise.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u6	There you go!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u7	The first text originally on the agenda today was the bill to strengthen the right to abortion. This text is the result of a long work done by the delegation to women's rights and equal opportunities for men and women in our Assembly, which gave rise to an information report by Mrs Cécile Muschotti and myself. This bill was the subject of a report by our colleague Albane Gaillot. We could have worked together to advance women's rights forty-five years after Simone Veil. But the Republicans decided otherwise. Four or five Members of Parliament The Republicans have tabled an avalanche of amendments – 500 amendments – which cannot be dealt with in a single day. Since we have only one niche per year, we have had to, forced and forced, withdraw this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u8	That's not good!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u9	But that is only part of it, ladies and gentlemen of the Republican Group. Other groups will take up this text, probably that of the majority or the Government. Finally, we will make this right effective in order to prevent many women from being forced to leave abroad in order to have the right to abort. It is unacceptable that this is still happening in our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u10	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u11	There's accountability!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u12	Of course, the right of amendment moves democracy forward – everyone has their own ideas – but the obstruction lowers it and limits the debate. [[Applause on the benches of the SOC, GDR and FI groups and on a few benches of the LaREM group. – Mrs Albane Gaillot also applauds]] I see that there is almost no one on the benches of the Republican group; If the text had been discussed this morning, there would have been a lot of them. [[Members of the SOC, GDR and FI groups, as well as Mr Jean-Jacques Bridey, Mrs Albane Gaillot, and Mr Bruno Questel, stand up and applaud. – Mrs Valérie Petit also applauds]] Women can count on us to continue this fight so that they can truly have this right.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u13	Mr. Stéphane Viry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u14	I cannot give a brief reply to our colleague whose words I respect. [[Exclaims on several SOC benches]] Dear colleague, you know how much we are as attached to women's rights.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u15	It didn't happen!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u16	[[Same movements]] I am taking part with you in the work of the delegation on women's rights with assiduousness and freedom of tone which, in my opinion, can avoid amalgams and generalizations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u17	I've been talking about four or five Republican deputies!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u18	Let Mr. Viry speak, please!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u19	I do not wish that a political group could be put to shame because of a decision that was not within its purview: it was your group that made a choice of agenda, you could have maintained the text you are talking about and removed others.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u20	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u21	As you said yourself, whose parliamentary practice is tried and very responsible, the right to the amendment is probably the only tool and the real weapon of a Member.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u22	Not when you abuse it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u23	If colleagues have expressed the wish, because this is their conviction, to amend a text, it is their absolute right.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u24	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u25	[[Mrs. Agnes Thill applauds]] Do not draw a political argument from it and do not deduce that the Republicans do not want to examine the subject. We are ready for this debate on the IVG. Look at the votes in committee: in my personal capacity, I voted for this bill. Don't talk about it as a rostrum, it's not welcome and it's not up to this beautiful parliamentary niche that is waiting for us today.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u26	I've been talking about four or five Members of Parliament. Republicans, I didn't say Republicans!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u27	Mrs Battistel, I am sure that you will have the opportunity to reply to Mr Viry, but we cannot now engage in an exchange on a subject that is not on the agenda. In any event, the Assembly has been enlightened. Before you reproach me, I would like to inform you that I have given you more time to speak than the Rules of Procedure provide. It was normal that we should refer here to a debate that took place in public opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u28	We come back to the bill on the agenda. Mr Boris Vallaud, rapporteur of the Committee on Social Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u29	Mr President, Madam Minister responsible for integration, Madam President of the Committee on Social Affairs, ladies and gentlemen, in the hearts of young people there are bursts of laughter, unwavering friendships, passions in love, dreams, desires in other words or revolt, pavements or beaches. There is in the heart of this impetuous youth, impatient, demanding, severe, who so many times on the street have engaged in the defense of freedom and justice, our whole future. But at the very moment when we meet, there is also anxiety and sadness in these hearts. There is under the roof of Paris some soup of misery where young people despair. In Bordeaux, Dax, Strasbourg and Montpellier, young women and men rose this morning without having dinner, at night instead of meals. In our cities, in our countryside, some have returned the keys to their first dwelling to return to live with their parents, red at the front. There, they lost their student job, here, they struggle to find this first job to which they aspire so much. Tonight, at curfew time, faces without wrinkles but without smiles will grow in the ranks of food banks. Let's hear them. "This is the first time I've come because it's starting to be a mess and I'm hungry. "Personally, I often do not eat. "I fly a lot in the shops, I can't eat otherwise. "My fridge has been empty since Monday and it's actually getting tough. "I used to work every day, and now it's two to three times a week. "Honestly, without food distribution, I don't know how I would do it. "I lost my job, so it's a little difficult. "I live alone with my studies, in the morning, in the day, and in the evening I find myself alone. "I had a suicidal thought for the first time. Their names are Maiwenn, Hector, Augustin, Maya, Billel, Léa, Lisa and so many others. Let us remember the hope of our twenty years to better grasp and hear their despair today. Their sufferings are ours. By making our House this morning echo their distress and their appeals for help, national representation must assure them, testify to them, demonstrate to them that they are neither ghosts nor invisible, but full citizens of whom we have the honour to be representatives. Let's hear them. Two years ago, on 31 January 2019, in the same Chamber, Hervé Saulignac, who reports this bill with me, defended on our behalf the meticulous, patient and determined work of nineteen socialist departments around Jean-Luc Gleyze, aimed at experiencing basic income. While the social crisis was already grumbling, we wanted to propose, we wanted to debate, diagnosis against diagnosis, proposals against proposals, values against values. We then met with your refusal to simply discuss. What a waste of time! Here we are, on February 18, 2021, at the mitan of a considerable crisis, the largest since the Second World War. Usually more affected than any other generation by unemployment, by great poverty, by poor housing, here it is, this youth, hit even more by the economic and social crisis that the pandemic is driving behind it. Reality alarms us. With financial difficulties, the difficulties of feeding, housing, treatment, further education, internships or first jobs increase. The present becomes heavy and the future uncertain. Youth sinks into precariousness and has the feeling, sometimes, of adult indifference. Being young is a trial, an initiatory rite that can be cruel, but what is this strange nation that sets the de facto criminal majority and the civic majority at 18, but which, socially, makes its young people wait until the age of 25? Isn't it time to come back from this so often shared truism: youth must squander and their duties go before their rights? So, we're back in this moment when history is looking at us. With this proposal for individual support for emancipation, with this minimum youth, as the distant echo of the minimum old age which the nation established in 1956 and which allowed to leave so many of our elders from indigence and necessity, we propose to respond to the urgency as well as to the aspiration for equality and emancipation in our country. We first propose the basic income, i.e. the merger of the RSA – active solidarity income – and the activity premium based on three simple principles: a new right, open to 18 years, an unconditional right, an automatic right. This right will be open at the age of 18 as in twenty-three of the twenty-seven countries of the European Union. The aim is to put an end to an iniquitous, ineffective and infantilizing frontier: 18 years in the name of social justice and republican equality, 18 years in the name of emancipation as a net and as a springboard for convergence of desire for autonomy and aspiration for independence, 18 years in the name of the fight against great insecurity, 18 years in the name of the trust that we make to our children, in the name of a renewed relationship of the nation to its youth. This right will then be unconditional in the name of the profound sense of social protection and the need for high-level social support to "go towards", to "bring to", in the spirit of the youth guarantee to which we are particularly attached and with which we articulate our system. We want accompaniment more than control: accompaniment is a right and must be an effective right. This right will also be unconditional because no study in the world, no experimentation anywhere – Esther Duflo, the French Nobel Prize laureate for economics, reminds us regularly – has ever demonstrated the slightest disincentive to looking for a job. We must come back from this fantasy of assistance and from this idea that the buoy would lead from the bottom the one to whom it is thrown. This is all wrong. Let us affirm with Jaurès that "when emancipated, every man will seek his own way." Finally, this right will be automatic because no one can bear only 25% of French people do not ask to assert their rights, sometimes even for lack of knowledge of them, and sink into extreme poverty. But our proposal is also a universal capital allocation of 5000 euros opening the personal activity account to all young people at the age of 18 so that starting in life is not the privilege of a few; 5000 euros to consolidate or resume training; 5000 euros to solve a difficulty of mobility: to pass a licence, to acquire a first vehicle while one in five Frenchmen had to refuse a job offer due to the lack of a mobility solution; 5000 euros for a national or international association project...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u30	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u31	...that they will be able to make a claim in the search for their first job; 5000 euros to embark on an entrepreneurial project, because young people do not lack imagination and everyone knows the inequalities of wealth that are growing faster than income inequality. Here, ladies and gentlemen, is the great social progress that we propose to achieve, a great act of confidence, a great act of fraternity in a moment that calls for so much.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u32	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u33	At the heart of the crisis are the voices of youth associations, many political parties, trade union organisations, actors in integration, associations to combat exclusion. Even before the crisis, the basic income and the endowment that make up this minimum youth had been demanded and worked by the French and French themselves, through citizen consultations. The one initiated by the departments brought together 15,000 participants, and there were 100,000 for the one organized by make.org on universal endowment. The bill that we are submitting to you, has been the subject of a consultation on the platform parliament-and-citizens.fr and has been able to collect 6,000 contributions. Let's hear those voices.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u34	They invite our gaze, and even more so our conscience, to turn to this youth. Today, 68% of French people are in favour of opening the RSA to 18-year-olds.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u35	They're right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u36	Let us hear these more and more voices before the obvious and urgent necessity. How could we, national representation, not hear it or act? We do not oppose the battle for employment. We believe in emancipation through work, meaningful work, quality work, dignifiedly paid work. We do not oppose the battle for employment, which you are leading, which we support, to social protection; We are not saying that the Government is doing nothing. We say that we must do better and more to bring the country to the height of the distress that gnaws young people today.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u37	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u38	The answer cannot be limited to directing young people to "move" to get out of it, when it is up to us to move for young people. The suffering of young people will be that of an entire country and its future if we do not act. This covid generation is also the climate generation, the one that demonstrated, a few months ago, for justice and the defence of the environment. Stuck between a suffocating planet and a confined daily life, how can we grow the light heart? Yet this youth is the key to the world we have to build and its fate will determine the fate of our country. In this, she compels us. Holding hands with this youth: this is what we are called to today. If it is right for a society to judge how it treats its youth, then it is urgent to act. We are not only called upon to emerge from a crisis but to change our model. Our country has been making considerable efforts for decades to combat poverty and total deprivation. It is not worthy of our past, nor conceivable for our future to see the ranks of food banks growing from so many of our young people. [[Applause on the SOC benches]] Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Deputy Minister, citizens, I urge you: let us give our revolted hearts the boldness and courage to vote for this text. Audacity to save the future by saving youth.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u39	The next speaker is the Minister for Integration.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u40	I thank President Valérie Rabault, Mr Boris Vallaud and Mr Hervé Saulignac for giving us the opportunity to discuss today the accompaniment of young people and the most vulnerable people in our society. [[Exclaims on several SOC benches]] As I say at the outset, we disagree with the measures in your bill, which are of a philosophy diametrically opposed to ours. This does not prevent the Government from being fully mobilized since the first day of the quinquennium and since the first day of the crisis, alongside young people and the most vulnerable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u41	That's not what they think!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u42	Like you, we want to do everything we can to address the flaws of the current system. As a local elected representative, who knows the field, I am aware of the difficulties that precarious audiences face and I know the urgency of acting for our youth, but we do not share your vision of accompaniment for young people and people in difficulty: work must also be at the centre of the arrangements. Your bill introduces two schemes: a basic income, accessible from the age of 18 and paid automatically without conditions of employment, and an individual allocation of 5000 euros accessible from the age of 18 without conditions of resources. We oppose these two measures in principle. The creation of a basic income has the direct consequence of abolishing the activity premium. However, this premium, which was upgraded in 2019, is often an indispensable complement to the business income of 8.8 million modest workers.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u43	We created it, the business bonus!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u44	Behind the numbers, there are faces, real situations, life paths. A single person who earns 800 euros per month, without any other social benefit or resources, will receive 225 euros per month more thanks to the activity premium. If he has a dependent child, he will receive 435 euros per month in addition to his income from activity. This premium is therefore a powerful tool for improving the purchasing power of those who work and have modest incomes.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u45	It's not deleted!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u46	[[Exclaims on the SOC benches]] Is this really the time to delete it? I don't believe it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u47	We're not removing it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u48	Let the minister continue her remarks!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u49	By creating the basic income you also remove the obligation for the beneficiary to be accompanied and to engage in an integration process. To remove the condition of accompaniment is to give the feeling that living with a social minimum will not be a transition, but a fatality.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u50	It's a right to accompaniment!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u51	In the Republic, the logic of integration is that of a reciprocal commitment, which to a right, that of receiving an allowance, combines a duty, that of engaging in an approach to employment. As a Councillor of Alsace and former president of the department, I am concerned about your proposals for the integration policies of the departments, without any consultation. Unlike you, we believe more than ever in the intelligence of the territories and in the relevance of the action at the departmental level to carry out the experiments necessary to improve the routes. These measures also pose operational difficulties. They would create uncontrollable edge effects, and at this point in time. Their financing would require massive tax increases, which would be contrary to the commitments made by the President of the Republic. The automatic payment of basic income would also entail a particularly complex reform. This would imply that the caisses have a comprehensive knowledge of the situations of all the households eligible to benefit from this income.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u52	It can't be heard!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u53	From this point of view, the date of 1 January 2022 that you propose in this text seems unrealistic. Finally, with regard to the creation of a capital endowment, is it relevant to tell young people that such a sum can be made available without having to repay it? At the age of 18, one wants to have autonomy, to live one's life: the State's response to all those who need national solidarity must first be to give perspectives...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u54	Precarious!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u55	Where are your prospects?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u56	... through training and employment and, only then, the resources necessary to succeed in the path chosen. To propose one without the other, the endowment without the accompaniment towards a professional project, it amounts to enclosing the youth in the mirage of a "minimum youth". But that is the maximum we want to do for her.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u57	Words!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u58	For us, allocation and accompaniment go together.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u59	Words!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u60	Accompaniment must be the main element of the policy of supporting young people as well as the most vulnerable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u61	We agree!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u62	Ladies and gentlemen, we have not waited for the crisis to be at the side of young people and vulnerable audiences and to provide them with concrete solutions. As early as 2017, this majority and the Government have embarked on major reforms to ensure that everyone has access to skills, training or employment. Over the five-year period, EUR 13.8 billion is devoted to the training of young people and low- or low-skilled jobseekers in the framework of the Skills Investment Plan. As part of the "1 young person, 1 solution" plan, this unprecedented commitment was complemented by an additional effort of 700 million euros to finance, in 2021 and 2022, 100,000 additional training courses in the professions of the future. As part of the implementation of the training obligation, we have launched an accompanying programme, the "Promo 16.18", which will allow young dropouts to discover trades and remobilise themselves. Finally, as of 2018, as part of the strategy to prevent and combat poverty, the President of the Republic has set ambitious targets for inclusive enterprises, in particular that of reaching, in 2022, the number of 240,000 people welcomed into the integration structures by economic activity, or 100,000 additional beneficiaries, of which 600,000 in 2021. The development and transformation of the sector has been supported by my Ministry thanks to a plan with more than €320 million in 2020, which will be extended in 2021, amounting to €150 million to help integration structures invest and position themselves in the enabling sectors. Since the first day of the crisis, we have increased our efforts and strengthened young people's support through the "one young person, one solution" plan. This unprecedented plan – more than €7 billion, the tripled resources traditionally devoted to youth – aims to provide a solution for every young person, whether they are a job, training or accompaniment. Rather than an unconditional arrangement, we prefer to offer young people a solution that is as personalized as possible. In particular, in 2021 we will open more than one million integration routes for young people furthest from employment, 400,000 more than in 2020. Thanks to the mobilization of businesses and government services, this plan is yielding tangible results, with nearly 1.2 million young people under 26 hired in CDI or CSDs of more than three months between August and December, almost as many as in 2018 and 2019, despite the uncertainties. The private and public sectors have hired more than 500,000 new apprentices this year, a historic record. Finally, more than 600,000 young people joined support or integration schemes in 2020. All these billions are mostly careers that we support one by one. I am thinking of Ornella, whom I met in Moulins, Allier, and who, thanks to the exceptional bonuses paid to companies under the youth plan, had the opportunity to be hired to become a construction manager. I am thinking of all these young people whom I meet every day, every week, during my travels and who are always keen to show the support that the Government has given them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u63	[[Smile]] Young people on the move!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u64	Our massive response to the need for youth support does not prevent us from remaining faithful to the reformist ambition of the President of the Republic. To improve the accompaniment of young people and fragile audiences, we want to build solutions that are radically different from yours and, to say the least, more ambitious. First, rather than what you propose, we prefer to develop all the tools available to local missions and extend the principle of youth guarantee to all accompanying routes. For 2021, our goal is to support 430,000 young people on a contractualised path to employment and autonomy, known as PACEA, which is an additional 80000 routes compared to 2020. Following the announcement made by the Prime Minister on November 26, we doubled the limit on the amount that can be paid to youth enrolled in ACAP. We also want to double the places as a youth guarantee and increase from 100,000 accompanied young people in 2020 to 200000 in 2021. The Youth Guarantee is a well-functioning system for young people who are unemployed or trained, supported by local missions, appreciated and identified by young people.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u65	We invented it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u66	By the end of 2019, 43% of beneficiaries had been able to access employment, training, an alternance contract or a business start-up, and 75% of them did not have a baccalaureate level. What strikes me in your bill is that you no longer seem to believe in the role of local missions. However, having since taken office visited more than 20 of them, I can testify that they are a must-see for our young people.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u67	We never said otherwise!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u68	How do you evaluate this?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u69	Local mission advisers can literally change the lives of young people through this privileged tool of youth guarantee. I am thinking of Théophile, followed by the local mission of Vesoul after having been placed at the door of his home, who obtained his baccalaureate with mention thanks to the accompaniment he received in this framework: he is now undergoing training to become a film director.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u70	The device is known; We created it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u71	On the other hand, according to the Youth Guarantee, all young people on a career path can benefit from remuneration: young people accompanied by Pôle Emploi or APEC – Association pour l'emploi des cadres –, young graduates, former job seekers, or young people engaged in a journey of accompaniment towards training such as that provided by pre-learning. We want to guarantee every young person a right to unconditional accompaniment. No one should give up a path to employment because of financial difficulties. This is a major issue in terms of equal opportunities. To achieve these ambitious objectives, local missions will have an unprecedented budget of €495 million in 2021. To help them accompany as many young people as possible, the Minister of Labour, Elizabeth Borne, announced this Monday a relaxation of the conditions for entry into the youth guarantee and its implementation modalities. These flexibilities will focus on the criteria of non-taxation, resources and duration of the journey. We therefore want to be able to engage as many young people as possible in this process and to support them in the path towards employment. At the same time, we are continuing the construction of the public service of integration and employment, which aims precisely at guaranteeing a right to effective support throughout France. In concrete terms, it is a matter of building efficient and seamless pathways to enable people to solve all their problems of access to employment through the best possible cooperation between the actors on the ground because, as you know, integration is everyone's business in our territories. Ladies and gentlemen, this is an opportunity for me to tell you that the public service of integration and employment is moving forward. By the end of March, it will be deployed to thirty new territories, which will implement the recommendations of the great national consultation that we have conducted. In this way, we want to strengthen and improve the obligation to accompany, in return for aid, for more effective service to people. As you will understand, we do not want devices that lock young people into minima, but paths that fully play their role as a springboard, as a transition. In short, we want to place accompaniment and employment at the heart of our integration and solidarity arrangements. Naturally, just as any work deserves pay, any accompanying approach to employment deserves resources, but it is first and foremost the commitment to take charge of itself and access to financial autonomy that must give access to financial support.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u72	Move, move, move!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u73	You're doing all right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u74	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on some benches of the Dem group]] For all these reasons, the Government is not in favour of the provisions of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u75	In the general debate, Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u76	The AILES bill – individual support for solidarity emancipation – is a youth proposal, as it has received nearly 6,000 contributions. It is also a proposal for young people – it is indeed the first text for young people in this quinquennium. In his address on 14 July, the President of the Republic stated that youth should be the priority of recovery. He is certainly right, but since then we have seen that youth is the great absence of recovery. It is therefore high time to correct this situation and, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, you have the opportunity to do so today with this bill. The priority we must give to young people must encourage us to go beyond the political bisbilles, and I hope that this state of mind prevails this morning. If you accept the challenge, if you accept an open debate without a priori, let me give you five reasons why I believe that we must vote on the progress proposed by the AILES bill. First reason: Madam Deputy Minister, you say that young people should not be confined to assistance courses, but that 23 of the 27 countries of the European Union and almost all the OECD countries, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, open their social minimums to young people from the age of 18, and even if there are, of course, variations from one country to another, depending on whether the young people concerned continue their studies or live with their parents, France, which rightly has the reputation of being one of the most generous countries in social matters, appears today, with this crisis, as the least generous to his youth. It is high time to correct this anomaly. The second reason is that we are facing a real situation of poverty. Can we really look at ourselves shamelessly in a mirror if we leave young people without resources? What is this entry into life where you are told at once that, for you, there is no hope? The situation of young adults between the ages of 18 and 29 who no longer live with their parents is of greatest concern: 22 per cent of them are among the poor, as highlighted in the poverty report published last December. Half of the poor are under 30 years old. Today, the majority has the responsibility, not to make us live, but to allow us to live, that is to say, to allow everyone and everyone to ensure their daily lives. That is why you have today – and this crisis gives you even more opportunity – the responsibility to open up rights for young people. The third reason is that the world is changing. Youth is moving forward and supported in many countries: it is essential not to be late. A capital to start up is a capital to embark on life, which is a formidable springboard. Madam Minister-in-Charge, I assure you that this is not going to make public finances worse! Fourth reason, on which I would like to stress: in January 2019, we proposed a new experiment,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u77	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u78	...to test the law before deploying it. You closed the door to all the proposals, as we proposed that you do so in the nineteen departments whose departmental councils wanted this experiment, and that more than 15,000 people had responded to the survey. We would have tested the law over two years, a period after which a balance sheet would have been drawn. Aren't you delighted to be able to continue today the "long-term unemployment zero-territories" scheme that we had created in the form of experiments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u79	It was us!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u80	You are satisfied with it, since you have extended it. It is in exactly the same spirit that we wanted to move forward here: to test the law before deploying it and to take stock after two years. You would then have found that there was no risk of idleness. You also refer, Madam Minister Delegate, to the youth guarantee. I am delighted that you are satisfied with this today because, when we created it, the right of the House voted against it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u81	Yes! Your former colleagues!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u82	I therefore welcome the fact that everyone is now joining it. Your former colleagues had voted against it, but I see that you are greeting her today, and that is very good. We have always been the ones who have changed the devices. There is no static policy, but only a dynamic to move forward. Here, however, it is young people who are on the front line and to whom we must respond. Finally, fifth reason: ladies and gentlemen of the majority, if you vote on this bill, you will be in tune with the 70% of French people who want a minimum of youth. That is what they said a few days ago in a poll, and I think we should listen to them. [[Applause on the SOC benches and on several benches of the Action ens and GDR groups. – Mrs Sylvia Pinel also applauds]] In conclusion, I will quote François Mitterrand: "If youth is not always right, the society that ignores it and strikes it is always wrong". Let us not be this society that ignores youth. Let's vote AILES.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u83	Mrs Valérie Petit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u84	So we are meeting here to discuss universal income, as we were already doing three months ago, when the Group of the European People's Party, to the right of this House, presented its universal income mechanism, the citizen base. Three months later, therefore, another proposal for a mechanism came from the left of the Chamber...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u85	That was two years ago!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u86	It has its origin in 2019, you do well to remind it. So this morning we are looking at another universal income mechanism: basic income. But unfortunately – forgive my consistency and perseverance – three months later, it was necessary to stimulate this new debate because the situation, recalled by my colleagues, has not changed: it is that of the social emergency for students, for the self-employed and for all those who, in the face of the pandemic, escape this social protection which we boast so much, but which is a cover full of holes and struggles to provide everyone quickly the minimum necessary to face the crisis, to bounce back and to continue to have hope for the future. We have made little progress in the last three months, and yet, more than ever, the universal income that you defend with this basic income, this old utopia, could be the solution to the crisis and offer a mechanism to confront the world after, which will be a world of crises, the covid-19 being, I believe, the first in a long series. This universal income presented to us on this day as a parliamentary niche of the Socialist and related group is, let me say, a liberal proposal, and it is in this capacity that I defend it. Indeed, it came from a Franco-British MP, Thomas Paine, who in 1795, in love with our declaration of human and citizen rights, said that to be effectively free and to fully exercise his rights, it was first necessary to be free from poverty. Universal income is first and foremost a fight for rights, a fight for emancipation and against poverty. I often hear that the fight for employment is mixed with the fight against poverty. The goal of universal income, however, was to eradicate poverty and restore dignity and freedom to everyone. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority – the majority of whom I belong to – bear in mind that universal income is a deeply macroistic proposal. My dear friends, you have not forgotten that in 2017, we committed ourselves to the emancipation of every Frenchman and to equal opportunities, and founded our reforms, as the Minister Delegate pointed out, on training and a method based on the individualization and universalization of rights. The universal income is part of a great fidelity to this reformative audacity and emancipatory ambition that are ours within the majority. The universal income is also, as you know, a proposal from the Group of the European People's Party, and I will quickly recall the differences that exist between the citizen base we are defending and the basic income that our colleagues in the Socialist and Related Group are proposing: while the latter want to merge and extend certain social benefits, we are proposing a social tax reform, a reform of the income tax so that everyone, from the age of 18, can pay the tax and that, by tax, an income be unconditionally paid from that age, like a tax credit. We thus propose a base allowing, in case of shock, always to have the minimum necessary to bounce. It is a citizen base, because of course our objective is not assistance, as I hear all too often, but the ability given to everyone to make their lives freely, actively, and to integrate into society. That is why we link the citizen base with the creation of a large public service of activity, in order to accompany each individual to enable him or her to find his or her place in society. I will conclude by stressing that universal income is in the direction of history. Do not betray my thinking: I am not saying that the Government has failed. On the contrary, Madam Deputy Minister, you have done everything you can in the current state of the system. France can honour itself to have, more than any other country, made sure that every Frenchman is not forgotten, but our system is out of breath. I therefore call for structural reform. This is what the Citizens' Pillar of the Action Group proposes and is a major reform. We have proposed a path for the Prime Minister. This path exists. It is in your hands and I invite you to seize it. [[Applause on the SOC benches. – Mrs Albane Gaillot and Mrs Sylvia Pinel also applaud]] As Mrs Valérie Rabaud has said, we must unite all families in favour of universal income, to the right and to the left. We will then discuss funding – because, as you know, I do not agree with the proposed formula. At least we have to open the door to let hope in. Too many French people are hungry and no longer believe in the future. We must live up to this urgency and challenge, as we were in 1945 by creating social security. It is for these reasons that the Group of the European People's Party will not vote against this proposal in a consistent manner and that I personally will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u87	Mrs Agnes Chill has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u88	First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteurs and all those who have worked on this bill for allowing for a useful debate on the issue of universal income, or basic income. On behalf of the IDU and independent group, I would like to acknowledge the very important work that has been done to present such a well-documented and comprehensive text. The precarious situation in which many of our fellow citizens find themselves is of great concern to us, especially since, as everyone knows, the health crisis has greatly increased inequalities. Beyond the mere loss of income, the loss of a job also signifies the abandonment of projects and a profound questioning of self. Our group therefore joins you in the idea that it is the responsibility of the State to accompany all those who fall into precariousness, the economic victims of the health crisis. On the other hand, there is a fundamental divergence between us: we will never be convinced that the payment of monetary aid can replace the prospect of employment. In our view, poverty is not just financial hardship, and our poorest citizens will not escape it because you have given them money. We will always prefer to offer them training, create jobs, enable them to reintegrate into society, so that they can use their talents: it is this reintegration into society that will protect them from poverty. The purpose of the proposed law is to ensure a minimum of 564 euros per month for all adults. But who can live with such an amount? And even with the double, who could get away with it in a city like Paris? Therefore, should it be increased in order to bring it into line with the level of the minimum wage? But even it is sometimes not enough, and a whole host of additional aid is needed to prevent our modest citizens from falling into precariousness. What would then be the fair amount of a decent basic income? Would its cost not be exorbitant to society, or would it constantly be re-evaluated? In order for this system not to lose, according to the Observatoire français des conjunctures économiques, it would be necessary to pay EUR 785 per month to each adult. This would cost EUR 480 billion, or 22 points of GDP! You yourself estimate the cost of the device you are proposing at 21 billion euros: it is a huge sum. To finance this measure, you are relying on a very important reform of inheritance law, aimed at taxing owners throughout life and multinationals. Therefore, this proposal seems to us to be very demagogical. The cost of the measures provided for in all the texts originally included in your parliamentary niche amounts to several tens of billion euros: you will need more than one or two reforms if the revenue from the new taxes you are considering is to bring you back such a sum.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u89	Tax evasion is 100 billion!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u90	The payment of living income for all young people between the ages of 18 and 25 could lead to an explosion in student rents and real estate prices. And what about the increase in enrolment fees in higher education? Let us now ask ourselves the question: has the basic income already worked, in practice? It turns out that the Finnish government experienced it for two years on a group of 2,000 randomly selected unemployed. Each received 560 euros per month in 2017 and 2018, almost the sum foreseen by the bill. As a result, if beneficiaries report a little less stress, the universal income has absolutely not increased their integration into the labour market compared to the control group.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u91	Did it push him back?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u92	The balance between cost and benefits therefore seems to us to be unfavourable. On the other hand, we strongly agree with you, ladies and gentlemen, on the issue of non-use of rights. It is unbearable to think that our fellow citizens still have to take steps to collect certain aids, even though the organisation of the administrative services would allow them to be granted automatically. Many give up their rights, although they are still eligible for a number of schemes. As a result of the argument put forward, IDU and independent Members will vote against the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u93	Mr Adrien Quatennens has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u94	Let us not turn around the pot and say it immediately: our opinion diverges from that of our socialist colleagues with regard to the details and modalities of individual aid for emancipation. But this bill gives us the opportunity to address together, since this Assembly, an umpteenth alert message to the President of the Republic and the Government: now, hurry! Hurry up to extend the RSA to young people under 25 years of age, as the time is no longer at risk. The RSA is certainly not the panacea – no one will say the opposite – but it is no longer even the subject: there is an absolute urgency to stem the poverty in which the youth of our country sinks every day a little more. It is a real shame for France to see these endless queues of students in front of food banks. Meanwhile, what is the Government doing? He lit an absurd and ridiculous counterfire by asking the CNRS – the National Centre for Scientific Research – to ensure a political police at the university against what he calls Islamo-leftism, a term that no one can define other than as a political slogan of the far right to discredit its opponents. For us, it is clear: by choosing the step of two with Marine Le Pen, the Government wants above all to avoid the subjects that we are addressing this morning. There are 10 million poor in France, 300,000 homeless, 2 million people using food aid, half of them in the last year. At the same time, which is not unrelated, the billionaires of our country have raised an additional 175 billion euros: seven people own as much as 30% of the population! Yes, there are assisters, cheaters and thieves in this country! It is the rich who enjoy themselves in the midst of an ocean of poverty, those who, every year, flee tax and go to hide 100 billion euros that they looted, stole from the homeland in the most complete indifference to the challenges that we have to face collectively. Yes, the paradise of the rich is made from the hell of the poor: it must be said. And it is probably also to better conceal this reality that some prefer to saturate the hemicycle and the media outlets of sordid debates stigmatizing Muslims. Provided that the poor fight with each other on religion or skin colour, rather than targeting those responsible for their daily misfortunes. Socialist colleagues, you propose to replace the RSA and the activity premium with a basic income of 564 euros, which would decrease depending on the activity income. However, we are opposed to the State taking over some of the income that should be paid by businesses. For in the end, it is the idea of a degressive basic income that you defend: the state would compensate for the salary paid by the employer, because it would be too low. Your proposal could therefore create a downward pressure on wage growth. Above all, basic income keeps a portion of the population in a very precarious state. What France insoubted proposes is to eradicate poverty by raising the social minimums: no one in France should live below the poverty line. But overcoming poverty requires the sharing of the wealth produced: to do so, we must replace the five marginal income tax brackets with fourteen new tranches, which will allow the effort to be smoothed, and that everyone pays in proportion to his or her income. Those earning less than 4000 euros per month would pay less taxes. It also takes a universal tax, to charge, from where they are, those who flee tax here. Finally, at the time of ever-necessary and interesting debates on the establishment of a universal income – of which there are as many versions as people proposing it – I want to point out here a divergence of diagnosis: no, there is no shortage of work. There are so many tasks to be accomplished, so much human work necessary, in particular to carry out ecological bifurcation. What we lack is not work, but jobs.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u95	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u96	However, if the number of jobs is growing less rapidly than the number of people looking for them, it is because working time has been blocked since 2002. Thus, rather than proposing to give up employment, we should defend the constitutional right to obtain employment. Rather than leaving a part of the population out of employment by providing it with a universal income, why not divide working time to achieve full employment? [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups, and on a few benches of the SOC group]] This debate must continue. For our part, we believe that full employment is achievable, by combining ecological planning, which would create a lot of jobs, with a reduction in working time both in life, in the year and in the week. In short, we must overcome poverty by organizing the sharing of the wealth produced, planning the ecological bifurcation of our economy, and working less, to work all and work better.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u97	Mrs Sylvia Pinel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u98	Endless lines of students and young people waiting to receive food aid: these are the daily scenes we are watching. We must not get used to it. As a first step, attention had turned away from young people on the pretext that they were less affected by the epidemic. Yet, they are turning into precariousness and are therefore victims in their own right of the health crisis. To say that the Government has done nothing would be wrong, the Libertés et territoires group is fully aware of this: beyond university meals at 1 euro, the plan "1 young person, 1 solution" – which has been extended – the increase in the number of places in the youth guarantee scheme and the ambition to build a universal youth guarantee, the advertisements have multiplied in recent weeks to try to fill the existing gaps. But while all these schemes are laudable, they nevertheless have a common flaw: that of acting through the sole prism of employment. This strategy is not enough, because it is neither global nor automatic. Let us not forget that the socio-economic crisis that we have been experiencing for a year has only exacerbated a precarious situation that has developed for a long time, and the inequalities that continue to grow. Indeed, our system promotes social, economic, and professional reproduction, and no longer fulfils the republican promise of meritocracy and social elevator. In the face of this old situation, we must rethink our policies to combat poverty and our solidarity mechanisms: the urgency of the current situation forcefully imposes it on us. It is essential that we approach these policies by changing our view of poverty: let us emerge from the myth that social assistance would have a disincentive effect on work. This link has never been verified, and yet it conditions all our policies in this area. Our group therefore welcomes the two aspects of the bill. First of all, we agree with the idea of introducing a basic income as proposed, as it meets three imperatives: progressivity in the consideration of income, lack of matching, which makes it possible to prioritize trust and focus on people's support, and automaticity, in order to combat a far too high rate of non-use of rights. As such, we cannot but deplore the postponement of the creation of a universal income of activity, promised by the Government since 2018. Should we consider him abandoned? I'm afraid so. [[Mrs. Valérie Rabault applauds]] Above all, the basic income proposed here is accessible from the age of 18, thus responding to the great gap in our social protection system. While young people are particularly affected by precariousness and difficulties in accessing employment, they continue to be excluded from certain benefits. That is why our group is among those who have been calling for many months to extend the AHR to young people between the ages of 18 and 25. We believe that it is easier in an emergency to mobilise an effective and well-known mechanism than to create a new one. We welcome the idea of a universal allocation that can be used for training, mobility or entrepreneurship. Such a mechanism could be useful in breaking the cycles of social reproduction that are increasingly fuelling inequalities. If the arrangements for financing the scheme remain to be clarified, we therefore agree with the spirit of the text. We hear the growing calls for such a mechanism, coming from increasingly different horizons. Universal income, basic income, guaranteed minimum income, citizen base, whatever the name: faced with the distress of our youth and an increasing number of our fellow citizens, this idea is necessary with greater relevance. Madam Minister-in-Office, let us not sweep these initiatives with a back of the hand, with the only argument that no young person can build himself with the social minima as a horizon. This would caricature the objective pursued by the text, because this is obviously not what it is about: these aids do not constitute a horizon, but rather a means of keeping your head out of the water and opening up, precisely, new horizons that go further than the end of the month; A springboard, too, to really choose its way. [[Applause on the SOC and GDR benches. – Mrs Paula Forteza and Albane Gaillot also applaud]] That's what we're asking you: not charity, not attendance. More than ever, we must respond to the urgency and guarantee the promise of republican emancipation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u99	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u100	Our country is facing a major social crisis. The epidemic of covid-19 has passed our society to the revealer, updating and amplifying pre-existing vulnerabilities. Poverty now affects 10 million people; food insecurity affects 5 million of our citizens; RSA requests from my department are exploding; youth unemployment, especially in working-class neighbourhoods, is on the rise to record rates. In this context, young people are particularly interested in: students who no longer find small jobs or first jobs, temporary workers who are brutally thanked, apprentices without a firm to receive them. "Eat well in the canteen", "don't forget your snack", "take fruit in dessert", are sentences we have heard for years before repeating them to our own children: how can we therefore stand to see these same children, our young people, growing up queues in front of food banks? We should feel that it is our duty to act. Today, we ask you to take action, not to close your eyes. The crisis weighs twice as much on the incomes of French people aged 20 to 25 than on those of the rest of our country's population: this is the result of a study published in January by the CAE, the Economic Analysis Council. To these material difficulties is added a profound psychological distress, resulting from the limitation of social interactions, the closure of universities, the cessation of socio-cultural activities, but also from the lack of prospects for the future. All these observations were made in December 2020, in the report by Marie-George Buffet on behalf of the commission of inquiry to measure and prevent the effects of the covid-19 crisis on children and youth. In this context, sixty-five proposals were adopted unanimously to address the educational, psychological, financial and social difficulties faced by children and young people as a result of the crisis. For the past year, it has been clear that neither the Government nor its majority have taken the measure of this economic and social shock, simply distributing one-off aid – 150 euros here or there – and presenting a largely inadequate plan, which leaves entire sections of our youth on the edge of the road. We can be skeptical about the recycling of solutions used for the last 20 years: assisted contracts, civic service, all parallel ways of integration that do not put an end to the massive unemployment of young people. Let us refuse to make the covid generation a sacrificed generation! We can no longer be content with powdering or half-measures. That is why we are looking forward to the consideration of the draft law of our socialist colleagues aimed at establishing a basic income and a universal endowment from the age of 18. We now need to invent sustainable schemes to ensure income and to guarantee the continuity of their social rights to these young people who are excluded from the RSA because of their age, who rarely benefit from unemployment insurance because they have not worked enough, facing a major economic crisis that closes their doors to the labour market and plunges our country into indignity. Yes, we have to take action! For our part, we have been advocating for many years for a student income that would allow young people to be financially self-sufficient during their training. It would also be necessary to work to expand unemployment insurance, while strengthening the resources of the accompanying structures dedicated to young people. On the other hand, we have long opposed any plan to merge social benefits, as well as the idea of a universal income; But we take note of the progress proposed in this text, the main one being the creation of a basic income from the age of 18. The youth associations all demand it, the social situation requires it; However, the Government and the majority continue to kick in, referring to the youth guarantee, which has only 100,000 beneficiaries. Similarly, we are in favour of a more automatic allocation of social benefits: today, one third of the people eligible for the RSA do not claim their rights. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR, SOC and FI groups]] The social emergency, the future, obliges us: once again, we simply ask you to take action.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u101	Mrs Iborra has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u102	The purpose and ambition of the bill we are about to discuss is to replace the RSA with a resource-tested but unconditional basic income, i.e. without any obligation on the beneficiaries, and introduced for all from the age of 18. We had the opportunity to affirm this in 2019, when nineteen socialist departments had proposed such an income: the fight against poverty, against inequality, cannot be reduced to unconditional financial aid. This is the whole difference between attendance, charity, and social policies aimed at lifting those who have unfortunately settled in poverty out of poverty.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u103	You only help the rich!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u104	Who settled there quietly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u105	Accompaniment, of course essential, can only be the result of a contract between those who perform it and those who benefit from it; It is not a control, but a concrete solidarity, which will help to get out of the precarious. For accompanied persons, the conditionality of the aid can also be lived, you can hear it, as a form of respect for their dignity. We therefore favour accompaniment and services rather than the payment of unconditional monetary benefits: that is what separates us in substance. Moreover, your proposal does not reach consensus, including within your political family: under the presidency of François Hollande, the Government has repeatedly rejected this idea of an unconditional basic income.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u106	Unconditionality for companies!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u107	You used to be a socialist, Mrs. Iborra!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u108	In this respect, your retro-pedaling by the stealthy tabling of an amendment of withdrawal, prepared before the discussion of the text by the Committee on Social Affairs and presented at the end of it, probably results from the fact that some potential candidates of the Socialist Party in the next presidential election have publicly expressed opinions that differ from yours.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u109	Oh, good!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u110	[[Protests on the SOC benches]] The role that you assign to the departmental councils in your explanatory statement, while we are four months away from the departmental elections, shows that the electoral concern is not absent from your bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u111	That's lamentable!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u112	And you, you're removing the ISF!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u113	[[Same movements]] Moreover, with regard, in particular, to the unconditional nature of a possible basic income, there is no further consensus in the departmental councils.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u114	We're talking about young people standing in line to take out parcels so they can eat!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u115	Come on, ladies and gentlemen! Let Mrs. Iborra continue.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u116	With regard to the young RSA you are advocating, since your unconditional basic income would be open from the age of 18, we are not in favour of it. You consider that the situation of young people is uniform, their aspirations are similar, so the answer must be an identical one for all. This cannot be effective or sufficient, even in times of crisis,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u117	Good thing you're no longer socialist!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u118	... especially during the period we are living. Aware of the worsening situation of young people, the Government has shown its determination to act in a differentiated and effective manner...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u119	We can see that!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u120	Already, support and financial assistance have been introduced for those who need it most.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u121	So everything is fine!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u122	The "whatever it costs" also works for young people,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u123	All right?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u124	... whether they are in training, integration, apprenticeship or beneficiaries of the youth guarantee – the Government has relaxed the eligibility conditions and the amount of aid reached nearly 500 euros per month. Young students do not ask for charity,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u125	They want to eat first!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u126	... but an effective accompaniment in order to clear their horizon, to be able to become what they want to be, no matter what destiny their origins assigned to them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u127	It's nothing but
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u128	The young RSA would not meet this expectation; Instead, current support should be improved in order to better inform young people about existing social measures, including those we are creating as a matter of urgency, which is now lacking in universities.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u129	[[Smile]] Islamo-leftism, no doubt!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u130	[[Ms. Sylvie Tolmont exclaimed]] As far as staffing is concerned, the realization of your very administrative or even technocratic vision may prove to be laborious: this would not be the first example of this kind. Moreover, the "eligible actions" for the use of this EUR 5000 would not be particularly attractive for 18-year-olds.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u131	I hope your children will never find themselves in a precarious state!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u132	We have to close.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u133	Please, Mr President, let Mrs Iborra speak: the more she says, the better it is for our text!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u134	Go on, Mrs. Iborra!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u135	I conclude, Mr. President. For all these reasons, we will not vote in favour of your bill, but we want the debate to continue on some of its aspects, including...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u136	Thank you, Mrs. Iborra.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u137	[[Exclaims on the SOC benches]] [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] ... an innovative springboard arrangement that would help young people to get a better start...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u138	Don't change anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u139	That's great!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u140	It's "at the same time"!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u141	Mrs Iborra, you exceeded by fifty seconds the five minutes you had: I could not do anything other than cut off your microphone. All previous speakers have completed their statements within the allotted time. Mr. Stéphane Viry has the floor. I also expect that he will not exceed five minutes: he is disciplined.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u142	At least I'm trying to be, Mr. President, while still free! This morning we are considering the proposal for a law, tabled by the Socialist and Related Group, on the creation of individual support for solidarity emancipation. In order to develop it, our colleagues have undertaken a considerable amount of work – hearings, consultations – and based on the extensive reflections that are currently generated by universal income or similar mechanisms. Other parliamentarians are heavily involved in this field; Obviously, the subject is relevant, and will remain so for some time to come. The answer to the problem of universal income was political, and not necessarily consensual, because the issue was linked to poverty and the first consequences of the health crisis. The Republican Group is ready for this debate and will be very much in favour of concrete, immediate proposals. Last week, for example, we formulated fifteen of them, aimed at responding, in the face of current impasses, to the urgency of increasing insecurity, especially when it affects young people. To get a little bit higher than this bill, we consider our social and economic model to be tired, breathless. It no longer protects enough; it no longer keeps poverty at a distance; it no longer promotes social ascension; I mean, paradoxically, it costs us a lot. France certainly has a social protection system, but it does not achieve its objectives: in the face of various needs, it may in some respects seem obsolete, ineffective. This system is based on work, on the social contributions it generates. Our national solidarity is at this price; work must therefore remain the centre of our reflections, be valued, encouraged, rewarded, and be at the heart of all social policies. Dear Socialist colleagues, I very much humbly repeat this maxim of Jaurès: "Everyone must find his place in society". I would also point out that the preamble to the 1946 Constitution mentions "the right to obtain a job", which we spoke about some time ago in this House. We Republicans firmly believe that the solution is to accompany young people towards sustainable employment. We prefer action to make young people active and active in their lives, rather than a policy of numbers and a stacking of devices. We must probably now give priority to a new status in our system, that of assets. To be active, in a solidarity society, with rights and obligations: this must be the horizon proposed to young people, knowing that a universal protection mechanism must also be able to deal with accidents of life, difficulties and challenges. Young people in France are wondering; She's in trouble and looking for her place in society. Youth is always the future of a country. She is his breath; It embodies new ideas and new conquests. Young people will already have to bear a debt which, of major importance, will become dizzying. She will have to work: the issue of employment remains a key and priority for us. This debate encourages us to reflect on how to arm it to face this challenge. We could talk about the uphill, that is, the school performance, which remains to be improved in our country. We could also talk about the support, that is to say the labour market and the reception of young people in enterprises, which is a real subject. There is, Madam Minister Delegate, the French challenge; This is the stalemate in which our nation finds itself. I shall end with this observation: the unemployment rate for young people aged 18 to 25 is twice the average unemployment rate, which means that there is clearly a problem. Does the answer to this problem lie in the provisions that you propose in sections 1 and 2 of your bill? It's questionable. I do not think so, especially in view of the planned funding which seems to me baroque, complex and relatively unfair in certain aspects. Some financial measures, in fact, will not only penalize the richest, but will affect our economy even more and may prove to be confiscatory. That is why we cannot support your bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u143	Thank you, Mr. Viry, for fully respecting your speaking time! Mrs Michèle de Vaucouleurs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u144	The bill that we are considering today as part of the Socialist and Related Group Day places at the heart of our discussions the question of creating a basic income complemented by the introduction of universal funding. This discussion takes place in a context of a substantial increase in the precariousness of the youngest of our fellow citizens, a direct consequence of the health and economic crisis. The rapporteurs propose to remedy this precarious situation by means of two mechanisms, although very well-substantiated, which do not seem appropriate both in form and substance. First of all, the introduction of a basic income that combines the RSA and the activity premium, paid unconditionally, seems to us to be a step backwards from the action taken by the majority since the beginning of the legislature.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u145	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u146	The aim is to strengthen the ways and means by which a real path towards employment can be drawn. Indeed, if urgent action is to combat increased insecurity, we must not forget that the purpose of our action cannot be limited to financial support: it must aim to open up opportunities for our young people, to give them confidence in their future and in their ability to be fully contributing to the society they aspire to build. We had already set some milestones to provide young people with a path to success in working life with the learning reform in 2018. Thanks to the incentives provided by the Government this summer, the results are on track, despite the impact that the pandemic has had on the economic situation. For our part, we wish to use the support of the youth guarantee, which is close to the amount of the RSA guarantee, and to extend it to all young people who need it, regardless of their socio-occupational status and fiscal situation, in order to provide them with financial assistance or support adapted to their situation. We are also very skeptical about the spring funding you are proposing. The idea may seem attractive, in particular because it places the scheme on the personal business account. The introduction of such a long-term and unconditional measure, however, raises questions because, if we have to do everything possible to cushion the consequences of the crisis, we should not allow the existence of magic money to be believed. Therefore, any long-term measure can only be put in perspective with other expenditure. The financial dimension adds water to the mill of our reluctance. Indeed, the figures for all the provisions of this bill are unequivocal: they represent a cumulative cost to public finances of almost 21 billion euros per year. While the explanatory memorandum puts forward financing ideas, they remain very hypothetical and are only a matter of incantation since they are not included in the text itself. Let us understand: it is not because the members of the Group of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats express serious reservations about the provisions proposed by this text that they ignore the difficulties that may be faced by some of our young people. Not a young person should be left on the side. Our conception of social policy is ambitious. Indeed, we believe that the emancipation of youth is not a standard that can be branded, but a way to build from early childhood to adulthood. This is reflected in the work of our former colleague Sarah El Haïry, now Secretary of State alongside the Minister of National Education, Youth and Sports, who is seeking nothing but to emancipate our young people with, in line, the ideal of wanting them free and committed citizens. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group]] Finally, in a more general way, our group has always been open to wide-ranging consultation on the desirability of implementing a universal income. It seems to us essential that such a subject can be discussed with as many parties as possible, without being confined to Parliament, in order to consider this topic from a global point of view. It was with this in mind that we approved the resolution proposed by the Group of the European People's Party (ACP) together last November. In the meantime, the situation of young people, which requires rapid responses, cannot endure the length of the parliamentary shuttle. As Guillaume Apollinaire wrote: "Send the days and spend the weeks – nor the time spent – nor the loves come back. For all the reasons I have just outlined, the Dem Group will not vote for this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u147	Too bad!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u148	Mrs Laurence Dumont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u149	Exactly a year ago, the French observed in the media the first signs of the arrival of the covid-19 in our country. The health crisis that followed, and that we are still living today, has affected our entire economic fabric. It has also strongly influenced our ways of life and social relations and created a very precarious situation. Charitable associations have been telling us for months: the number of applications for aid, including food and subsistence, is exploding. [[Mr Joël Aviragnet and Mr François Ruffin applaud]] Without, of course, establishing a value scale within this great precariousness that extends day after day, it must be noted that young people are particularly affected. They've been suffering in silence for a year. It's a lot, a year, when you're 20. The loss of income and small jobs, the difficulties in finding an internship or a first job, constitute the daily life of a young person who can no longer do it. She now seems totally incongruous, the famous word of the President of the Republic that it would be enough to cross the street to get a job. Young people today are rather reduced to crossing the street to go to the Red Cross or the Restos du coeur, to be able to eat.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u150	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u151	We have a collective responsibility, which goes far beyond our political differences: to provide young people with the means – as my colleagues Vallaud and Saulignac like to say – to train themselves, find a job, stay in their homes, start a family and take part in the great plan of a changing world. It is a collective responsibility because the youth of a country, of course, is its future, as everyone has said. The country is therefore also playing its future with this issue. At this particularly serious time, we, as parliamentarians, cannot remain unreactioned in the face of young people who drop out of school for lack of resources and fall into increasing precariousness. The answer must be global. There can be no partial and uncoordinated responses to such an issue. The health crisis requires us to redefine our software. Ladies and gentlemen, we must act. The support of young people, so much advocated by the Government for weeks, can now be realized. While young people are experiencing a disastrous situation, described day after day by the media, associations, elected representatives and student unions, it would be incomprehensible that the parliamentary majority should not adhere to the flagship measures of the AILES bill, namely the establishment of a basic income at the age of 18 and a capital allocation of 5000 euros to start life. [[Applause on the SOC benches]] Today, in this House, we simply propose to bring speeches and actions into line. Being young cannot and must not be a test, moreover during the health crisis we are experiencing. To do politics is to anticipate, adjust and reform in the common interest. A society is judged by the way it treats its youth, but also by the urgent and substantive measures taken by those who have the responsibility to prepare for the future – we parliamentarians – so that each one can have the means of his or her ambitions and dreams. Beyond the words, ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you not to adopt a political stance in the face of this proposal for an AILS law, on the pretext that this text would come from the opposition, but to see it as a means of acting together in the interests of our young people, because it can no longer do so.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u152	Thank you, Mrs Dumont, for your spirit of synthesis! Mrs Paula Forteza has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u153	Every crisis in our modern history has been followed by major political and social transformations. The one we know today is of a particular nature. It puts an end to the entire sections of our economy and interrupts the flows of globalization upon which our entire model had been built over the past fifty years. It makes us open our eyes to poorly paid jobs, which our society has not valued socially: nurse, cashier, garbageman. It questions the meaning we give to our existence by improving the non-market activities of care, health and solidarity. Finally, it reminds us of the environmental urgency we are facing, by obliging us to build a more sober society and to question our productivist paradigm. In this context, the reflections on a universal income have reappeared in the debate as a tool to limit the damage of the crisis. Considered so far as a sweet utopia, the idea that society can assure everyone the minimum to live decently and realize itself has taken shape. At the very beginning of the first confinement, we found in our broad consultation "The Day After" that the introduction of a universal income was already one of the most popular measures. Many countries have since taken first steps in this direction. In Spain, as early as last April, the creation of a minimum subsistence income for the most vulnerable was adopted. In the United States, a cheque of $1200 per adult was paid out in a totally unconditional manner. In France, the generalisation of partial unemployment also supports the idea that it is the responsibility of the State to maintain income stability. This crisis must now encourage us to move towards a lasting redefinition of our welfare state model, because work is no longer linked to a status. Part-time, self-entrepreneurship, micro-work, mass unemployment, non-market economy, development of the social economy and solidarity: full-time wage earners are no longer the measure of everything. On the other hand, universal income can enable us to develop the society of care, of attention to each other and to what surrounds us, which we desperately need. The question therefore arises of the type of universal or basic income that should be set up. It gives rise to very fruitful discussions, and I welcome the work of our colleague Valérie Petit, based on the idea of a citizen base. Our colleagues Boris Vallaud and Hervé Saulignac offer us another option, that of an unconditional and degressive basic income, coupled with a universal capital allocation of 5000 euros. This endowment could be a real springboard in adult life in a context where heritage inequalities reinforce social determinism. But let us go back to the context in which we are discussing this proposal, starting with the situation of young people. They all share a daily life of restrictions, they suffer and they tell us. We see the queues lying down at the food supply points, and the doubts and fears for the future are exploding. Let us not forget that the crisis weighed twice as much on the income of the 20-25 year olds as it did for the rest of the population. A proposal of common sense emerged, namely the possibility to perceive the RSA from the age of 18, which would still be the least of the things... France is indeed one of the last countries in Europe not to open its social minima from the age of 18, which is all the more incomprehensible when we know that two thirds of the French, including 70% of the supporters of the present majority, are now in favour of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u154	Where are they?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u155	This proposal is brought forward by major actors in the community and student. The EDS Group – Ecology democracy solidarity – had defended it several times, in vain, which is why I, along with several of my colleagues, tabled an amendment identical to those of the rapporteurs to ask for it to be set up. These are two conceptions of youth that we see in this debate. One claims to know better than the youth what is good for her, says that she is not depressed, that she does not want to be assisted; the other respects her, trusts her to know what is good for her, and simply tells her: "You don't have to be afraid of your future, build yourself as you wish, we will be there! The defenders of this conception, we find them in civil society and on the benches of this House, from the left to some of our colleagues of the majority.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u156	She's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u157	[[Applause on the SOC and Action Group benches. – Mrs Sylvia Pinel also applauds]] This humanist, social, progressive bloc is not reducible to a partisan game, but must know how to come together when the time comes, which is the case today, at the time of voting for the opening of the RSA at the age of 18.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u158	The general discussion is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, before the rapporteurs and the Deputy Minister take the floor, I should like to inform you that, on identical amendments Nos 1, 12 and 29, I have a request from the Socialist and Related Group for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr Hervé Saulignac, rapporteur of the Committee on Social Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u159	In the words of the eleven speakers who spoke during this long general debate – to which we must add a twelfth speech, that of the minister delegate – the same diagnosis has come back several times and we have heard a lot of compassion – a little too often, no doubt – and a lot of self-satisfaction in the ranks of the majority – a little too often, unquestionably. Unfortunately, the only answer that seems to have to be given at the end of the discussion of this text is that of the status quo. Madam Deputy Minister, I have listened very carefully to your remarks, which you have begun by referring to a philosophy diametrically opposed to ours. You didn't do it in the shade, that's the least we can say! You could have referred to the differences, you could have referred to another way to provide answers to a youth you seem to know better than anyone else. Let me tell you that on several occasions you have been so caricatural in your speech that I come to wonder how much time you have devoted to reading the text that we are submitting to you.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u160	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u161	She reads what we wrote to her!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u162	Thus, you categorically stated that we wanted to remove the activity premium...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u163	You had to read the text!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u164	[[Applause on the SOC benches]] ...which is absolutely not the case: we propose to merge it with the RSA. At the very least, it would be surprising if we proposed to delete it, since it was we who created it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u165	How generous!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u166	I invite you to re-read our report, which makes it very clear that there are no losers in the scheme we are proposing, contrary to what you have also stated. You are calling into question a non-repayable capital allocation, believing that the State's support for youth who suffers should necessarily be repaid by the State. But the state is there to produce rights that protect the most vulnerable, it is not a bank that is destined to impoverish those who are already poor by debt when they are about to enter working life and, on this point, our respective conceptions radically diverge. [[Applause on the SOC benches]] Equally caricatural, you have suggested that accompaniment would not be a concern of the Socialist and related group. Accompaniment is a major obligation for us; it is the condition by which young people will return to the path of emancipation. It is clear that it is through the strengthening of local missions that we have helped to create, that we will be able to respond to the current challenges, and not only through an allocation, however generous it may be. You have praised the "1 young, 1 solution" device, which you believe would be of an unprecedented magnitude. When I went to the Privas employment site, a very small town...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u167	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u168	...the prefecture of my department, the Ardèche, I found in all and for all twenty announcements, Madam Deputy Minister, on which fourteen proposed temporary or seasonal missions or CDDs – fixed-term contracts.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u169	It's work!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u170	I tell you very clearly, "1 young person, 1 solution", it doesn't work: what you're proposing is "ten young people, a piece of string"!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u171	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u172	I repeat, "1 young person, 1 solution" is a formula that does not work.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u173	All words!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u174	It's communication!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u175	As far as the youth guarantee is concerned, without denying the efforts made by the State to ensure the existence of this mechanism which we have created, I would remind you that there are 1 million young people under 25 who are unemployed, without training and without education. Since you propose to accompany only 200,000 or 300,000 young people, what will become of the others? Obviously, you don't have any answers to them. A catalogue of proposals does not make a structural policy that meets the expectations of young people. For our part, we propose an overall response, approved by 68% of the French according to a poll published on Monday.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u176	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u177	[[Applause on the SOC benches]] The same percentage of our citizens also consider that this government does not do enough for young people and is in favour of opening up new rights to young people, in particular by granting them the RSA from the age of 18. It is not the Socialist and related group that tells you this, it is two thirds of the French...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u178	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u179	...but oppose a status quo with a terrible gap with social reality, which I regret. [[Applause on the SOC benches]] I must thank you, however, for the tribute you have finally paid to the Socialist Group, Madam Deputy Minister, because all the policies that accompany the young people you are pursuing are based on local missions, the youth guarantee and the "long-term zero-unemployed territories" scheme, all things that we have created! I will now try to respond to the colleagues who have spoken, apologizing in advance to those whom I might forget. I will naturally begin by welcoming President Valérie Rabault, who reminded us of the symptomatic fact that our bill is the first piece of legislation dealing with youth that we are given to consider in this Parliament. Just over a year from the next presidential election, it is pretty terrible to make this observation! Mrs Petit, I salute your perseverance in supporting what you call the citizen base, your honesty when you stress the renunciation of this majority who had promised so much to youth and your courage, finally, for what your personal vote will be. [[Applause on the SOC benches. – Mr. François Ruffin also applauds]] Mrs. Thill, you started by distributing good points, and I thank you for having praised the quality of our work, but your remarks quickly faded away with terrible contradictions. Thus, having rightly suggested that the sum of 564 euros was insufficient to live with dignity, you conclude that it is better not to grant anything to young people under 25 years of age. You have mostly criticized the cost of this measure, but do you know what the cost of poverty in France is? In fact, poverty costs the State much more than the expenditure we propose to spend on it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u180	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u181	You'll still have to specify who's going to pay!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u182	Mr Quatennens, thank you for stressing the urgency of action. Beyond the structural responses, there is indeed an emergency situation to which we must respond. On this point, your philosophy is not quite the same as ours, but I believe that the subject is not exhausted and that some differences are not insurmountable – in any case, I very much hope so. Mrs Pinel, you recalled the search notice launched to find the RUA, the universal income of activity, which, we were told here in January 2019, had to solve everything. Your predecessor, Madam Deputy Minister, told us at the time that the Socialist Group was too early and that the Government was laying the foundation on the universal income of activity, an extremely ambitious scheme that would solve all the problems. Today, it must be noted that the RUA seems to have disappeared in a black hole... Mrs Faucillon, you are right to stress the urgency and to say that the time has come for action. As you point out, Marie-George Buffet's excellent report on the impact of covid-19 on youth is an injunction to act that no one can contest, as precise as it is. Mrs. Iborra...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u183	Don't change anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u184	...I want to believe that the position you have expressed in this rostrum is not that of your entire group, because I was particularly struck by hearing you talk about these young people who would have "settled into poverty"...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u185	It's crazy to hear that!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u186	...as if poverty was an armchair in which one could comfortably settle...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u187	What a moral mistake! It's shameful!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u188	[[Applause on the SOC, GDR and FI benches. – Mrs Sylvia Pinel also applauds]] ...as if some of the youth only aspired to be able to rely on the assistance of the State! It is an insult to the vast majority of young people in this country, Mrs Iborra, and I am deeply shocked by your words! You mentioned in your speech the presidential election and the departmental elections, mixing everything to make it an absolutely indigestible glubi-boulga...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u189	And incomprehensible!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u190	...and incomprehensible. We are here to seriously discuss the future of youth and, contrary to what you seem to think, I am not sure that the departmental elections are winning in this debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u191	Were you not comrades once?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u192	[[Applause on several benches of the SOC, GDR and FI groups]] Your majority is much more quick to demand compensation from the poor than from the big companies you sometimes help generously – that is probably what is the marker of your policy and what will be remembered. On the other hand, Mr. Viry, I would like to say that the intellectual elegance that you have shown commits me to fully respecting your point of view. You have told us most clearly in the world that you are proposing another path and that, therefore, you would not support our bill, but you have done so with arguments that prompt me to believe that one day, beyond these differences, our assembly will succeed in renovating a social model that some would like to maintain in its present state, despite the great difficulties that it is experiencing. Finally, Madame de Vaucouleurs, I do not believe that merging RSA and the business bonus go back to the action taken by the majority since the beginning of the legislature. Once again since 2018, you say you are open to consultation, but let me tell you that we will now have to consider taking action, because that is what young people are waiting for.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u193	There!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u194	[[Applause on the SOC benches. – Mrs Caroline Fiat also applauds]] Mrs Forteza, you have reminded us of France's very isolated position among its European neighbours with regard to aid schemes for the under-25s, a situation that should challenge us all. You have also referred to an amendment that you have tabled, which is very close to the position we stand for: we will have an opportunity to discuss it in a few moments, and I thank you for that.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u195	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u196	I would like to thank all the group speakers for their full investment on the issues of the utmost importance that we are discussing today, to the honour and image of this House. These subjects are multiple. The text first raises the question of the effectiveness and justice of our system of solidarity. It then refers to the support of the most fragile people in our society: these people, we all know them, we meet them every day as part of our professional activities and our commitment; For one reason or another, they have experienced an accident of journeys, an accident of life, an upheaval and it is for them that our Republic must be able to live up to the promise of nationhood. Finally, the bill deals with the support to be given to our young people, to all our young people. This support has two aspects, one of which is structural: what future should we offer them? The other is short-term: how to respond present for young people in this crisis period? I now turn to the rapporteurs and the speakers, aware that the issue requires the greatest clarity on our part. Mr Vallaud, you are talking about adult indifference, but I cannot let you say that we share it. This bill does not respond to the urgency because its provisions cannot be implemented within a year. We have to do better and more, you say, and that is what we do every day: working on the public service of integration and employment; extending the criteria of the youth guarantee; by speeding up the implementation of devices that we know are working. Mrs Rabault, I cannot let you say either that youth is not a priority in the recovery plan.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u197	That's true!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u198	We have to look at the numbers!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u199	It means quickly forgetting the law for the freedom to choose your professional future. The "1 young person, 1 solution" plan is massive: €7 billion is deployed for young people, regardless of their level of training, their aspirations or the difficulties of their life course. With the "zero-unemployed territories" scheme, we extended and not generalized an experiment...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u200	I never said otherwise!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u201	... while your text proposes an immediate generalization. [[Exclaims on the SOC benches]] Finally, I will pay tribute to the young guarantee that you have created and that you seem to no longer support.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u202	What the hell is wrong with that?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u203	Who told her to say that?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u204	Ladies and gentlemen, please let the Deputy Minister continue!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u205	I have never voted against the "youth guarantee", I cannot let you say that. Mrs Thill, we agree that it is integration into society that preserves poverty. It must be noted that, in the case of experiments carried out abroad, the results are not conclusive, whether in Canada, Spain, Finland, Germany or Alaska: the basic income did not have a significant effect on employment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u206	What about people's lives?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u207	[[Mr Eric Alauzet and Mrs Christine Cloarec-Le Nabour applaud]] [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Mr Quatennens, you urge us to hurry. Fortunately, we did not wait for you to develop exceptional aids and massive plans like "1 young, 1 solution". As INSEE – the National Institute of Statistics and Economic Studies – shows, poverty and inequality declined in 2019 as a result of measures taken by the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u208	Open your eyes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u209	I am thinking, for example, of the upgrading of the activity premium and the reform of the income tax scale. For us, employment is the best bulwark against insecurity and inequality.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u210	Where's the job?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u211	There aren't any!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u212	For you, is it urgent to wait?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u213	Mrs Pinel, thank you for reminding you of the positive action taken by the Government since the beginning of the crisis. On the RUA...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u214	Announced for 2020!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u215	... the work is still under way, as the Prime Minister pointed out in November: its implementation is planned for...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u216	For 2020!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u217	...2023 as announced by the President of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u218	Many promises are being pushed back to the Greek calends!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u219	As for the extension of the RSA to young people, we will have an opportunity to discuss it at length when we discuss the amendment that proposes it, but that is not the ambition we have for young people. Mrs Faucillon, you mentioned apprentices who do not find businesses. I can only encourage you, as well as all the young people involved, to consult the "1 young person, 1 solution" platform. At 10:43 a.m., when I logged in, I was able to see that 1500 companies had committed themselves and that there were 170,000 hiring intentions and 106585 job offers. I would also like to remind you that we have introduced many aids for learning and that they have had results. I cannot let you say that we are not aware of the problems.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u220	We can still say what we want!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u221	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Shouldn't one-off aid have been proposed? You then say that the plan "1 young person, 1 solution" is insufficient. Seven billion euros have been mobilised, 1.2 million young people have been recruited and 500,000 apprenticeship contracts have been signed: these are, I believe, figures that speak to everyone!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u222	Still, contracts have to be proposed!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u223	Mr Viry, I agree with you when you say that the challenge is the labour market. Mrs Forteza, we share your willingness to tell young people that the future is open to them, but we differ on the means. Finally, rapporteur Saulignac, there is no self-satisfaction on our part...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u224	None!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u225	... but an assertive ambition, mobilized devices and an energy never denied.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u226	It's beautiful...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u227	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] You mention Pôle emploi when I told you about the platform "1 young, 1 solution". Let us remember once again that €7 billion is spent on this plan, that 1.2 million young people have found a CDI, that there have been 500,000 apprentices and 600,000 young people who have entered an integration scheme. This is not caricatural, it's just reality.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u228	I now call the articles of the bill in the text originally before the House, since the committee has not adopted any text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u229	Mr François Ruffin has the floor on Rule 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u230	On the eve of the pandemic, in Amiens, in front of the students of the University of Picardie, Emmanuel Macron said: "We have no policy to have for youth." Every day, this is confirmed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u231	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u232	We still have an example today. Frankly, I must tell you that I understand that you are rejecting the bill from our Socialist colleagues, but what are you proposing instead? Nothing! You tell us that you have to do something in a differentiated way, find a solution as personalized as possible, "1 young, 1 solution" : all this is DIY, do-it-yourself!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u233	Seven billion euros, DIY!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u234	When the crisis arose, you quickly introduced the state-guaranteed loan – PGE – for businesses and partial unemployment for employees, two good measures that had nothing to do with hand sewn adapted to the situation of a particular box. They made it possible to build a real safety net. For young people, none of this. You propose little tricks going in all directions with 150 euros per one and 200 euros per one: devices so confused that you must accompany those who could benefit from them so that they understand what is proposed to them. You are launching a kind of "studenthon": as the government does not do the job, Leclerc and Intermarché stick to it. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group and on a few benches of the SOC group]] We don't want to lock young people in a minimum, you say. President Macron said that he knew "what it is to close a difficult end of months" to have when he was a teenager "live, at one point, with about 1000 euros per month". These 1000 euros, the students would like to have them, it's roughly twice as much as the RSA! He did not feel trapped in this minimum, nor did the children of the richest 10% who receive 700 euros a month from their parents. What about the children of the 90 percent who don't have any of this?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u235	Mrs Christine Cloarec - Le Nabour has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u236	Yes, young people need to be helped, better informed, better accompanied, more or less long and more or less intensely. This support must enable them to act, to become full citizens, to choose their career path and their professional future.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u237	That's good!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u238	Our ambition, since the beginning of the legislature, is to ensure that emancipation requires training and employment. We are convinced that there is potential in each one, provided we exploit its wealth: no one is unemployable. We must encourage our young people to train, to qualify, because this is the real passport for employment. You are calling for a young RSA, but let me remind you that it already exists: for pregnant women, young parents and young people who have worked full-time for three years.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u239	Very many, as everyone knows!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u240	This minimum youth also has other names: student scholarships, PACEA allowances, guaranteed youth allowances, paid in exchange for studies and attendance for some, commitments in an integration path for others. I cannot let you say that France abandons its youth. We have moved from words to deeds. After having endowed the skills investment plan with 15 billion, after having implemented the strategy of prevention and fight against poverty, after having developed the learning, we have launched since the beginning of the crisis the youth plan and its platform, which has undergone evolutions along the water to respond to the emergency. The results are already very positive. Integration arrangements are being strengthened and local missions are receiving unprecedented support. You have certainly adopted the "youth guarantee" for France of the European Youth Guarantee, but I do not remember during the ten years when I served as administrator of the network of local missions that when you were in command, you implemented such kind and confident support.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u241	Anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u242	What brings us together is our common goal.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u243	Mr Bruno Millienne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u244	Colleagues, I thank you for putting on the table a bill that asks many questions – I'm not going to sweep it with a back of my hand, even if some probably expected me to do so. It refers more comprehensively to the problem of universal income, which you propose here to implement for the 18-25 year-olds. Your proposals bother me in more than one way, even if I understand the philosophy on which they are based. [[Mr. Jacques Marilossian applauds]] First, they are based on a strictly egalitarian system, and for me equality has never been synonymous with fairness. We must take into account the differences in the situation between young people and find, as a result, personalized solutions for those who are in arrears – I agree with the Minister Delegate on this point. The world of work is changing: tomorrow's jobs will not necessarily match those we have experienced in the last twenty years, which requires special support. In addition, you remove any condition: it would not necessarily be a requirement to find an employed job as usually understood, but, for example, to build a professional project. But by removing any obligation, you make everyone believe that money is magic; But you know as well as I do, since you've been to business, that this is far from the case. You don't have to make people believe things that are wrong.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u245	Who said "Whatever it takes"?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u246	However, behind this "whatever it costs", there are mandatory compensations and results to be obtained! Fortunately, we have introduced state-guaranteed loans; Fortunately, we are providing financial support for partial unemployment!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u247	We still don't know who's gonna pay!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u248	Without these devices, the situation in France would be much more dramatic today! In a catastrophic situation, exceptional measures. You have all known in your territories, and I first, experiences of accompanying young people who do not fall within the criteria of the local mission or other institutions of this type. These young people, we work to help them, and when we manage to make them really interested in their future, they end up entering employment or developing a professional project. I insist: equality does not mean equity. I shall therefore vote in favour of the deletion of this article.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u249	We come to Amendment No 29, which seeks to delete Article 1. Mrs Iborra has the floor to support it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u250	Here she comes back!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u251	I am not going back to what has already been said, and rightly so, by the minister in charge. Contrary to what you suggest, we share the objective of fighting the precariousness of young people, to such an extent that we have proposed alternative mechanisms more adapted to the diversity of their profiles – which is not what your basic income allows – and intended to serve as a springboard to integration, which you do not necessarily want. The Government has therefore put in place a specific plan for young people - I would stress this point - entitled "1 young person, 1 solution", with €6.7 billion to protect the future of young people by accompanying them when entering working life or on an integration path. But the results are there, whatever your opinion on the subject. Beyond the issue of younger generations, the Government has committed itself to improving the support of the beneficiaries of the RSA through a contract with the departments, which finance this allowance. Since 1 January, the new public service for inclusion and employment, the SPIE, has been operating under the aegis of the Minister Delegate and is fully part of the national strategy for preventing and combating poverty. For example, the departments received significant funding in 2019, 2020 and will still receive it in 2021. For all these reasons, we call for the deletion of Article 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u252	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u253	With this deletion amendment, you confirm the attitude you adopted two years ago by refusing to push further the debate on our bill to introduce a basic income. It's a first-class funeral! It is regrettable that you have not taken a more detailed interest in our work, particularly as regards the link between the measure we propose and the scholarship system, the youth guarantee or social accompaniment. You remain at the caricature, which is very regrettable. There has never been a question of ignoring the importance of accompaniment, which is a right: we want a high-level, 360-degree accompaniment inspired by local missions and the youth guarantee scheme. And just as we were waiting for the RUA, like Godot, we are now waiting for the SPIE. We see it once again: you're more skilled at making announcements than doing it! We do not deny the importance of the "1 young, 1 solution" system. But also agree that many young people remain unsolved. I have consulted the platform that you have previously recommended to us, Madam Deputy Minister: in an announcement – I am holding it at your disposal – five years of experience are being requested from the candidate for a position in the field of communication! You understand that this is not possible! So it's not all that perfect. We never said you were doing anything, but mobilization must be general. In this effort to stop our young people from fearing the future, to help them build it, we must ensure that in addition to "one young person, one solution", social support, the youth guarantee, they can benefit from this "minimum youth". We owe it to them. When you have rejected our bill, you will go to the young people who are waiting for their turn in front of the food banks or soup kitchens to tell them: "We saved you from the comfort of the minimum youth that would have led you, idle as you are, to end your studies or to stop looking for a job! "? This distrust of youth is unbearable. [[Applause on the SOC benches. – Mrs Albane Gaillot also applauds]] Needless to add: it goes without saying that our opinion is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u254	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u255	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM groups and on some benches of the Dem group]] [[Same movements]] Allow me to react quickly to the remarks of the Member of Parliament François Ruffin: 7 billion euros is not DIY; the young guarantee is not DIY; the treatment of partial unemployment and partial activity either. Similarly, Mr Vallaud, SPIE, this is not communication: at the end of March, the public service of integration and employment will be deployed in 30 additional territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u256	It's a little short!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u257	Like Mrs Iborra and the deputies of the LaREM Group, the Government is not in favour of this article. Indeed, it seems to us problematic, in more than one way. First, it removes the obligation on the beneficiary to take steps towards employment. These steps, whether they involve the acceptance of an offer of employment, the accompanying appointment on over-indebtedness or medical consultation, are all important. This obligation is therefore a pragmatic and appropriate condition.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u258	It's a pretext!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u259	It takes into account the situation of everyone, their needs and all the dimensions of socio-professional support. This obligation speaks to all the ambition of society...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u260	It's not an ambition!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u261	... to accompany everyone towards employment. In reality, it is a guarantee, a right to accompaniment and inclusion. I would like to make it clear that, for us, accompaniment is not an option. To propose to remove this obligation as you do, that is to say, accompanying does not matter.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u262	That's not true! Read our text!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u263	[[Long exclamations on the SOC benches]] Worse still, that is, we do not believe in the ability of beneficiaries to find their way back to employment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u264	Lies!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u265	[[Continuous exclamations on the SOC benches]] This pessimism is not ours. For us, life with a social minimum must be a transition, a safety net...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u266	Colleagues, please let the minister delegate speak.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u267	Read the text, not your cards: they are false!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u268	...but not a fatality, nor a destiny. On the other hand, and this is also very important, removing it amounts to weakening the department. As the former president of the departmental council,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u269	Hervé Saulignac is also a former president of the departmental council!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u270	...I know the importance of this competence for the department and the usefulness of this level of proximity to promote integration.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u271	These provisions are proposed by the departments themselves!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u272	In fact, I discussed this subject a few days ago with the President of ADF, the Assembly of French Departments, Dominique Bussereau. The vast majority of departments do not wish this obligation to be removed. You are proposing a reform that weakens them without even consulting them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u273	Anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u274	How can you say that?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u275	As for the schedule you are proposing to arrange the payment of a benefit you want automatically, it is simply not tenable. Finally, and this is the heart of our debates today, we do not share your vision of what should be proposed to young people.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u276	Really 2022!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u277	My ambition for our children is not that they become recipients.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u278	Neither do we! But you, your ambition, is the soup kitchen!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u279	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] All parents want their child to get a job. Every day, in the ministry or during my travels, I see the will, determination and commitment of our youth. It is time to strengthen support and support mechanisms. Our ambition and commitment is to allow every young person to realize himself, to have a salary and not an allowance. Contrary to what I have read recently, this does not mean that we do not want to support them financially. Moreover, the plan "1 young person, 1 solution" and all the exceptional aids to the crisis prove this. What we are convinced of is that it is essential not to separate accompaniment and accompaniment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u280	Read our bill!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u281	We have therefore chosen another path: that of accompaniment and integration. We have very widely opened the youth guarantee: the criteria to benefit from it are relaxed, and 200000 places are offered in total. Our goal is that every young person can freely continue his or her journey to employment, without being prevented from doing so by means of resources. We aim for real equity in the face of integration and job search. For the past five years, employment has been our red thread; It must remain so because employment is the key for all young people, as for vulnerable people. We are at their side to support them on this path. The rapporteurs, on the one hand, are not aware of the difficulties of our young people and of those who hide their faces. There are those who think that employment will be the key and those who promise our youth a social minimum as the only horizon.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u282	What a caricature! That's so rude!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u283	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] For all these reasons, the Government is in favour of this deletion amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u284	Given the importance of the bill, I will give the floor to more than two Members, but I call on speakers to be concise. On niche days, whatever the parliamentary group concerned, we must be even more careful than usual not to exceed two minutes per intervention if we do not want to disrupt the examination of the texts put on the agenda. In addition, I will limit the speaking time to one speaker per group, plus one non-attached speaker. Mr Stanislas Guerini has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u285	You make an observation that can be widely shared: that of the difficulties experienced by young people. Like you, we see the queues in front of the food banks; like you, they come at us; Like you, we meet young people who have lost their student jobs and this situation obviously does not leave us indifferent. We must welcome all sincere proposals – and I think yours are – to find a solution to them. But we also have differences, which must be borne in mind. The first is that we refuse to think of this generation as a sacrificed generation. The Government, the majority did not wait to act, this was stressed. Exceptional support was provided to young people.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u286	It took a lot to push you!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u287	And I say, Madam Minister Delegate: if the situation continues, it will have to be extended. There has been food aid for young people – over the last three weeks, 1.3 million meals at 1 euro have been distributed to them; there is the plan "1 young person, 1 solution" – a total of 1 million solutions of all kinds have been introduced; there are the hiring aids, the extension of the youth guarantee... And despite the crisis, despite the difficulties, results have been achieved. Of course, not all situations are settled, but we must mention the figures because, behind them, they are all young people able to project themselves towards their future: 600,000 young people have entered integration paths, 500,000 apprenticeship contracts have been signed – a historic record, it must be stressed. More than 1 million young people have been able to find a job in recent months; Again, this is a significant result.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u288	Please close.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u289	Despite the crisis, despite the difficulties, we have not lost our compass, and that is our second difference. Our compass is that of emancipation, i.e. that of accompaniment, training and work. We cannot resolve to create allowances without conditions, without accompaniment;...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u290	What a caricature! Read the text, work a little!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u291	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] ...the RSA comes into this debate as if...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u292	Thank you, Mr. Guerini. Mrs Valérie Petit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u293	I would like to reiterate the meaning of this deletion amendment with two pieces of information. First of all, many European countries are experimenting with or about to experiment with universal income, like our German neighbours, and an initiative has been launched to ask the European Commission to think about it. [[Applause on the SOC benches]] Secondly, on 26 November this House voted on my motion for a resolution on the launch of a public debate on the creation of a universal income mechanism called the citizen base. The abolition amendment does not seem to me to reflect this desire to debate universal income, a measure which, I believe, meets a strong expectation from our fellow citizens. [[Applause on the benches of the AE and SOC groups. – Mrs Albane Gaillot also applauds]] That is why the Group of the European People's Party will vote against this amendment, consistent with its positions on the subject; We will thus be among those who, within the majority, will have assumed their responsibilities in the face of the emergency situation facing young people. If we have to hold a referendum on a shared initiative to decide, we will!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u294	There!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u295	Mr Fabien Di Filippo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u296	Mr. President, you're inviting me to brevity. I will stick to that by making two quick remarks. We fully accept our philosophical opposition to basic income, but I regret to see the proposal of our socialist colleagues and friends caricatured by the "at the same time" government. However, we are used to it because we ourselves have had to undergo it since the beginning of the quinquennium, in a different register; Today, it makes us smile more than you do. I want to draw your attention to two elements that seem dramatic to us. First, the cost of such a measure seems to me to have been approached far too superficially for a decision to be taken. These are long-term structural expenditure...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u297	Investment!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u298	... which would grapple with the budget of the State, already in debt in proportions never seen, and I regret that the Government and Emmanuel Macron make believe that public money is the solution to all the evils of society; This drift is worrying. Secondly, I would like to point out to the Government the following reality, echoing all the solutions that it refers to: it is your policy, your reform of national education and your choices in recent months that have brought more and more young people into precariousness, especially those who have been sent to the big cities to study higher in fields which, due to the influx of students, become garage routes, while the circuits of the vocational sector are completely abandoned and many jobs are not filled. It would enable the young people concerned not only to find work quickly but also to flourish and then become entrepreneurs. You should really think about it and work much faster on such leads.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u299	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u300	[[Murmures on the benches of the LaREM group]] "The results are here! We continue to hear these words in the interventions of the majority and the Government, which flatter each other. But what world do you live in? Every night, students line up for hundreds of meters in front of the Restos du coeur. I went there: they are not fragile people whose integration would be complicated! There are people who are in a master's degree in neuroscience, in a computer school or in law. That's who we're talking about! But obviously, as my colleague Émilie Cariou says, you know banks better than food banks!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u301	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u302	Cartoon!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u303	You say that the only horizon we want to offer young people is the social minimum and that your ambition for your children is not that they are recipients. But the truth, Madam Deputy Minister, is that your children, like mine, won't need this! They'll get your help or they'll get mine. All Members present here will have the means to help their children finance their studies and then find time to choose their future. We will all have the means to do so. This is the great injustice, the great inequality: the majority of the population of our country cannot. On average, the richest 10% offer 700 euros per month to their children, while the poorest 10% can only give them less than 100 euros. With regard to family solidarity, everyone is doing what they can, but we must now move on to social and national solidarity.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u304	Mrs Cariou, Mr Chiche, would you agree that only a non-registered speaker can speak? Mr Guillaume Chiche has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u305	Thank you, dear colleague Émilie Cariou. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, EUR 7 billion is not nothing. But it must be noted that this is not enough! I know you're involved in your constituencies; you talk to young people and their parents, and you see that the situation is absolutely dramatic for those who are turning into precariousness, poverty and feeling a legitimate ill-being in the face of the lack of prospects and the impossibility of working. [["Ah! » on the SOC benches]] Madam Minister-in-Charge, the challenge for these young people is not to find a job again, it is simply to find a job! But there is none. Tomorrow, when we emerge from the crisis, we know that jobs will be destroyed and that these young people will not be employed anywhere. The aim of this bill, which is not proposed to be cheerful in heart, is not to set up a part of the population in the "assistanat" but rather to deal with poverty. When you become poor, when you don't know how to eat at night or how to pay your bills or rent, you don't have time to train and find a job: you have to go to the essentials. The students we see in the queue in the food banks do not have time to devote themselves to their training and to project themselves into the future! They're just trying to find something to eat. [[Applause on the SOC benches. – Mrs Émilie Cariou and Mr Hubert Julien-Laferrière also applaud]] I therefore believe that this proposal for a law by the Socialist and Related Group responds to the urgency of the situation; I will support it by voting against these deletion amendments. What the majority does is not nothing, but it is not enough to preserve our youth, which is the future of our society. We must give him a solid foundation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u306	Mr Olivier Faure has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u307	Madam Deputy Minister, I have listened to you with great attention and I sincerely hope that you do not believe what you have read.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u308	Oh! We don't say things like that!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u309	That sucks!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u310	You really surprised me, first of all because you used an argument that everyone could use: you tell us that you want to offer young people in our country another perspective, that of employment. But do you really think that we want to offer them to be RSA recipients all their lives and that this is the only horizon, the only future we wanted to offer them? How can you think for a moment that anyone among us has this project? Unfortunately, this is the argument that has always been used by all those who have opposed the minima, for example the minimum income for integration, and who have always seen these subsistence allowances as a form of encouragement for idleness and assistance. These arguments, we know them by heart and they have for too long left too many people in distress! Really, find more! Basically, we know very well what you're thinking. Mr. Guerini, who has just spoken,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u311	A former socialist comrade!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u312	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] ... tells us that he sees people as falling into poverty. But what does La République propose on the move? A loan of 10000 euros for young people who want a future! It is therefore two philosophies, two opposing projects that confront each other. Rather than in debt to the young people of the country, we want to give them access to subsistence income so that national solidarity can be exercised against them, because we owe them a debt. [[Exclaims and desk taps on several benches of the LaREM group]] [[Applause on the SOC benches]] If, considering that it was going too far, you wanted to amend our proposal, you could have done so: you could have tabled an amendment to prevent the aid proposed by the Socialist and related group from being made permanent, but you would still be prepared to experiment with it during the health crisis. That's what we expected from you.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u313	[["Yes! »on the benches of the SOC Group]] I see many Members asking for the floor, particularly in the majority group. I have given it to Mr Guerini and only one speaker per group is allowed to speak. Don't ask for more interventions when you yourself have voted for the regulation on which I am based. I put to the vote the deletion amendment No 29.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u314	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 133 Number of votes cast 126 Absolute majority 64 For adoption 72 Against 54
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u315	What a shame!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u316	You're not applause?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u317	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 11 and 24. On these amendments, I have a request from the Socialist and Related Group for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mrs Paula Forteza has the floor in support of Amendment No 11.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u318	Similar to the one tabled by the rapporteurs, it aims to extend access to the RSA for young people under 25 years of age. It's a measure of common sense...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u319	No, it's not common sense, it's a philosophical choice!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u320	[[Applause on the SOC benches. – Mrs Albane Gaillot also applauds]] ...which is desperately demanded of us by the youth itself. To think that a subsistence allowance could lead young people to become lazy and abandon their training, personal development and job search projects is not to trust them. We may disagree with the rest of the proposal, but extending access to the RSA is the least we can do for a youth who is suffering and for whom a refusal would be incomprehensible.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u321	The rapporteur, Mr Hervé Saulignac, has the floor to support Amendment No 24.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u322	It is the same as the one presented by Mrs Forteza, but I will defend it in my turn. First of all, I would like to explain what clearly separates us and thus answer to the minister delegate and to Mr Guerini: according to what you said earlier, the way to emancipation is through access to paid employment. All right! It is the dream of any government, but it has not escaped you that for a few decades, none has succeeded. I remind you that work is a right, enshrined in the preamble to the 1946 Constitution; If we are not able to exercise it, we have a duty. What is he? We must ensure that those who do not have a job, those for whom we have not been able to fulfil this right, can live in dignity.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u323	Exactly.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u324	We therefore have a duty that requires us to respond to those who do not have paid work that allows them to live in dignity. That's the proposal we're making to you. This amendment invites us to consider the urgency of action and we could call it "amendment of youth assistance in danger" – it would not be totally usurped. It aims to open, on a temporary basis – I insist on this point because in committee, many have acted as if they had not heard what is not a detail – the time of the crisis, the right to the RSA from eighteen years old, including of course for the students. I will not go back to the figures mentioned here by the various speakers, but I will simply remind you that 600,000 young people between the ages of 18 and 25 are unemployed in France: this is the largest quota in Europe.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u325	That was already the case before the health crisis!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u326	If it doesn't bother you, what will do it? Yes, we consider that time is running out because the RUA has become a myth and because the young guarantee, in addition to having a limited duration of application, is not up to the means that should be provided – it is very weak and you say that it can go up to 500 euros, but very few are those who receive such an amount. As I speak to you, hundreds of thousands of young people can no longer wait: we are facing an injunction to act and this amendment seeks to respond to it. Indeed, we believe that those who have been pushed into precariousness by the pandemic, by this health crisis that has become a social crisis, will be irreparably marked. And what will their reaction be, when they understand that they have had to face the worst crisis since 1945 without the authorities being able to live up to their suffering? I'm asking you and I don't have the answer to that question, but each of us has to ask it in conscience. Youth remains excluded from the first solidarity mechanism in France. Throughout our lives, we can have access to a benefit: the RSA, unemployment, retirement or, when we do not receive a pension or when its amount is too low, the solidarity allowance for the elderly, the old minimum old age. There is only one period of adult life for which nothing is foreseen, that which precedes the age of 25 years. In the name of what should we allow such a gap to persist, this stain in our social devices? [[Mr Guillaume Chiche and Mr François Ruffin applaud]] None of us here will have to wonder how he will finance his children's studies. None! We are the national representative, ladies and gentlemen, but we are not entirely France. Attention to the message that, since the National Assembly, we send 70 per cent of the French who consider it urgent to reach out to the youth of this country. [[Applause on the SOC and GDR benches]] We will have no other opportunity to act. I hope that the temporary nature – I would insist – of the proposed measure should lead you to adopt these amendments. The status quo, we are convinced in the Socialist and related group, would be harmful. This amendment proposes a massive, immediate and effective response. It is up to you to decide whether to adopt it or not.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u327	What is the Government's opinion on these amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u328	[[Long exclamations on the SOC benches]] Mr Faure, you are asking me to make other arguments, which may turn against you. We never spoke of assistance or said that we did not want to support young people. We have committed an exceptional €7 billion plan that you don't say anything about. Remember that in January 2020, the unemployment rate was below 8%,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u329	Not in young people!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u330	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] ... a new level, achieved through government measures.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u331	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u332	The amendments propose to extend access to the RSA to any person who is at least 18 years of age, from 1 January 2022 until 31 December 2023. At present, the RSA is open to anyone over 25 years of age on a means-tested basis, as well as to young people under 25 years of age working without a job who has worked two years on a full-time basis or who has a child born or to be born. Why is the RSA not widely open to young people under the age of 25? Because there are obvious risks of confinement and stigmatization if appropriate accompaniment has not been put in place.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u333	All right? What study are you based on? On what international comparison?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u334	This does not mean, on the contrary, that young people do not have access to any facilities. They have access to the activity premium, open to all major workers without conditions, the amount of which was greatly increased in 2019. They have access to the Youth Guarantee for those aged 16 to 25 who need to be strongly accompanied in order to become self-sufficient. Due to the relaxation of the criteria, the number of places will double this year to reach 200000. We are aware of the consequences of the crisis on young people, especially on students who often need to work to finance their studies.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u335	It's not just the students!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u336	We face these consequences and difficulties every day. We have taken a consistent set of measures to respond to this emergency. These include: exceptional solidarity grants for young people receiving personalized housing assistance, scholarship students and ultramarine students studying in France; 1 euro meals in university restaurants; financial support for youth support by Pôle Emploi and APEC; the enlargement and upgrading of the remuneration of trainees in vocational training; doubling the CAPEA allowance ceiling;...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u337	It's all right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u338	... the aid for the installation of 1000 euros, announced by Emmanuel Wagon; 70% retention of scholarships for graduates who do not find a job.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u339	What are they complaining about?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u340	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Let us remember that we also upgraded the scholarships to 64 million euros for the academic year 2020-2021, as we had done for the previous year. All these exceptional measures are in addition to the "1 young person, 1 solution" plan, which aims to support all young people towards employment and to encourage companies to hire them in this particularly complicated period. This is in addition to all the major reforms that we have undertaken since 2017 to facilitate the integration of young people and to support them in their career path towards employment. The Government is fully mobilized to support our youth...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u341	I think you've already said it six times!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u342	... but we do not believe that it is by allowing young people between the ages of 18 and 25 to have access to the AHR that you will effectively fight youth poverty. It is by creating the conditions for better social and vocational integration that we will achieve this objective. In this way, we have embarked on an in-depth reform of integration policies, with a major objective: the creation of a genuine public service for integration and employment, the State of which would be the guarantor. Promoting better integration and access to the youth guarantee: this is the immediate response to the crisis. We are working towards a new and universal ambition: no one of our young people who is on an accompaniment path to employment should be forced to give up on it for financial reasons. All our young people must be accompanied until they succeed in entering the labour market and, if they encounter financial difficulties, they will receive an allowance. To serve this ambition, a project team will be set up in the next few days. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group]] For all these reasons, ladies and gentlemen, I am against these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u343	Ladies and gentlemen, I will give you the floor by following the order in which you raised your hand, that is to say, we begin with Mrs Sandrine Mörch. I am sure that you are unanimous in your group, Mrs Mörch, so that the other Members of the Republic who have asked for the floor will be pleased to hear you.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u344	I gladly give it to my colleague with whom I agree!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u345	Mrs. Mörch raised her hand before you, Mrs. Iborra.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u346	Since we agree, let's just say it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u347	I'm surprised and happy.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u348	We agree, but not necessarily on the content. As has been mentioned on several occasions, Marie-George Buffet and I interviewed a large number of young people from all walks of life during the work of a commission of inquiry to measure and prevent the effects of the covid-19 crisis on children and youth, of which I was chair. [[Mr. Cyrille Isaac-Sibille applauds]] In the course of the 80 or so hours of hearing of the main interested parties, we were at the heart of the subject – I was often in unison with Marie-George Buffet, the rapporteur. We found a gap between the words of young people, gathered at source, and that of adults, who do not always have an accurate interpretation of the deep, very diverse aspirations of young people. Taking advantage of the forum we offered them, the young people strongly called for finally to be listened to, heard and invited to participate in the development of public policies that concern them. When their future is under debate, they want to be proactive. If, of course, our young people suffer from the crisis, they are not resigned. It is not a service to them to instill in them the idea that they would form a disaster generation, waiting for the beak. In fact, the majority of young people believe in their future, despite the hardships and obstacles that surround their journey this year. They believe in their rebound abilities – and fortunately! In fact, this crisis serves as a revelation. We are not coming out of one year, but decades of policies that are too deaf to young people and, ladies and gentlemen, none of us can escape its own responsibility. The pandemic has revealed the great poverty that has been spreading among young people not for a year, but for twenty years: the unemployment rate of young French people has been the highest in Europe for years.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u349	It is not a problem of poverty, it is a problem of occupational integration!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u350	After being a teller, this crisis has become a stimulator – and that's so much better! The Government has taken exceptional measures to promote the vocational integration of young people in the framework of the "one young person, one solution" plan, one of its important aspects being support for alternation. The year 2020 is historic in terms of entry into apprenticeships: 440,000 contracts had been signed at the beginning of December. What is the point of adopting aid schemes for the most vulnerable if young people do not use them?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u351	It's full of contradictions!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u352	She was a friend before!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u353	Let us address the non-use of young people, which is abyssal.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u354	We must conclude, Mrs Mörch.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u355	I'll finish it, Mr. President. During this commission of inquiry, Marie-George Buffet and I heard the young people ask, in addition to financial assistance, for support towards employment which can help them...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u356	Thank you, Mrs Mörch. Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u357	The criminal majority is 18 years of age, from which one can go to prison.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u358	We'd have to lower it, the criminal majority!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u359	The political majority is 18 years old, from which one can vote. Why would the social majority be pushed back to twenty-five years? Explain to us at length why it should be so. I am one of those who take seriously the last letter of the acronym RSA, which refers to the activity understood in the broad sense of the term, i.e. encompassing studies, training and work. While the idea of "generation to which we give the beak" comes back like an antienne, I repeat: when we help our own children – mine are still a little young – we do not say that we give them the beak! These depreciating terms, which are "assistanat", "beaked" or otherwise, are always reserved for the same! The measures we are discussing are only aimed at guaranteeing floor resources to allow people to take off, to have a minimum of assurance in existence. One of the measures that would be consistent is the 1 euro meal in university restaurants. Good if these meals exist, but for the time being, it's really giving the beak to students who have to wait three hours for a congruous portion. Since we are consistent, Madam Deputy Minister, I would like to point out that students are more likely to attend parcel distributions such as the one I went to last Tuesday. Why don't they go to the university restaurant? Because they are forced to take their courses remotely, away from their place of study, and they will not only come back for a meal. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups as well as on a few benches of the SOC group]] This 1 euro meal, which you promote, is an incoherent measure: students, who can no longer go to the premises of their university, will not spend hours in the transports to go for lunch.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u360	Mrs Sylvia Pinel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u361	The Freedom and Territories Group will support these amendments. I repeat, the situation of our young people is worrying and it is time to fill the gaps in our social policies in their favour. How many young people no longer have a grant or a job, but are not entitled to unemployment benefits because they have not worked long enough?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u362	It's the same for those who aren't young!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u363	They do not necessarily have the chance to benefit from family solidarity through parents who can accompany and help them. That is why, for several months now, my group has been proposing the opening of the RSA to young people, at least temporarily. As has been said on all benches, the crisis has brought to light those lines of young people waiting in food banks. Since it is impossible for us to act as if it did not exist, we can at least adopt the proposed provision! [[Applause on the SOC, FI and GDR benches]] Our colleague Mr Mörch regretted the massive failure of young people to make use of aid schemes. In this case, why did you delete Article 1 which allowed automaticity? While it is true that non-use of aid is a problem in our country, be somewhat consistent. For my part, I regret that we are avoiding the debate with deletion amendments when it comes to a very serious subject of society, the concerns and anxieties of our youth, all of which we all have very moving testimonies. [[Applause on the SOC benches. – Mr Guillaume Chiche and Mr Adrien Quatennens also applaud]] Let us seize the opportunity provided by the serious work done by the Socialist and related groups and our rapporteurs, let us not run away from our obligations. At other times, we might have liked to benefit from national solidarity to get our heads out of the water. It is not a question of assistance, which, in fact, would not be a horizon. We really want an emancipation...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u364	Thank you, Congresswoman. Mrs Emilie Cariou has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u365	Clearly, Madam Deputy Minister, you are not aware of the application of your devices and, above all, you are not aware of their effects. Let's start with the activity bonus – I am very familiar with the scheme that we had been encouraging by increasing the amounts involved in the adoption of the finance law two years ago. This bonus is aimed at people who already have a job and a salary, and it is completely out of our problem of the day.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u366	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u367	The same applies to support for partial unemployment. The State helps companies keep their employees during the health crisis by repaying part of the wages. This is not, in any case, an aid to persons seeking employment. Again, Madam Deputy Minister, you are totally out of the question. [[Applause from the SOC, FI and GDR groups as well as from non-attached Members]] It should be noted that all persons who were on fixed-term contracts or fixed-term contracts of use – CDD and CDDU – have lost their jobs and have no alternative. This represents tens of thousands of people, especially many young people. [[Applause on the SOC and FI benches]] The youth guarantee benefits some of the young people, but in no case to the students in a situation of drop-out. Since the beginning of the crisis, Mrs. Frédérique Vidal has only offered them this unique device, showing a total ignorance and a strange vision of our young student who cannot survive.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u368	Mrs. Vidal is busy right now! She hunts Islamo-leftists. Somebody's got to take care of it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u369	[[Applause on the SOC, FI and GDR benches]] [[Applause from the SOC, GDR and FI groups as well as from non-attached Members]] I recall that one student in two has to work to live and that one in six lives only from his work. Mr Vallaud referred to food banks, but as Mr Ruffin said, you do not know enough about food banks and perhaps a little too much about the banking sector, since you are offering loans to students instead of helping them. For the past three months, I have met weekly student associations that distribute food; Without support from the universities, they are reduced to doing so in parking lots, in the rain, in the cold. This is the reality of French youth today!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u370	Mr Philippe Naillet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u371	We will, of course, vote for these Republican compromise amendments and I have no doubt that the majority will do the same. She explained earlier that she could not vote for a long-term scheme, but this is a measure to accompany the times of the crisis. Madam Minister-in-Office, I would like to draw your attention to the situation of young people in the Community. My colleague Karine Lebon and I are lucky enough to live in a territory where people under the age of 25 make up 21% of the population, or just over 170,000 people. But this youth is in great difficulty: in five of the twenty-four communes of La Réunion, the poverty rate of the youngest children is 60 per cent; 40% of 18-year-olds are out of school; 27% of young people do not have training or qualifications; Almost 40% of them are not in employment or training. But everyone here understands that without qualifying training, employment is moving away. I would like you to be aware of the situation in La Réunion. The sun does not replace everything, and today the island is in great distress, which unfortunately results in a figure that should challenge us all: the second cause of death for under 25s, after road accidents, is suicide. That's the situation for the young people of the region! I regret that the Socialist and Related Group's proposal has been rejected because these young people live with parents who are themselves in difficulty – as you know, I hope, 40% of the population of Réunion is below the poverty line.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u372	Please close.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u373	[[Applause on the SOC and GDR benches]] We must give perspectives to the young people of Réunion, it is a priority!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u374	Mrs Agnes Chill has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u375	[["Ah! » on the SOC benches]] [[Exclaims on the SOC and FI panels and among non-attached Members]] This debate is very useful. You touch a much larger and deeper problem than it seems, but you take it upside down. The problem lies in the education provided by society, families and schools. Let us remember how the world used to function! For decades, even since 1968, an individualistic society has been built of "me first", pleasure, zero constraint, completely abandoning the culture of labor and effort, the cult of stubborn perseverance that turns failures into successes, the stubborn search for the best of oneself. But the continuity of life – it is a scientific fact – does not imply a reproduction faithful to each generation, but changes that guarantee adaptation. It is for the living to adapt to the world and not to the world to adapt to the living. The provision that you propose goes completely down to this law.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u376	Anyway, it's nature's fault!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u377	We have built this society and you seem to regret it today, but your solution does not offer young people the guarantee of a springboard towards working life.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u378	Mrs Michèle de Vaucouleurs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u379	These amendments honour the House. Of course, we must take into account the crisis situation in which young people find themselves, but this concern is shared by the elected representatives of all groups, not just yours. We too honour this mission, in our own way, through the measures that we introduce and the action of the Government. The Deputy Minister recalled all the arrangements we have put in place. Initially, there were many gaps, but we have tirelessly brought back to the Government all the situations that were not covered. Today, we offer a coherent solution: with the youth guarantee, we will reach unemployed young people taken on integration routes, job seekers who are not compensated,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u380	We want to help the students!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u381	... but also students; In short, all young people who need support. The answer has been slow to organize, but now it is there. Moreover, if your proposal settles the material question, it does not take into account the psychological dimension, which is essential in terms of the impact of the covid crisis on young people. [["Oh! on the SOC benches]] We will not vote on these amendments,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u382	What a surprise!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u383	[[Applause on the benches of the Dem group]] ...because today we offer answers to the situation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u384	It's all right then!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u385	Mrs Valérie Petit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u386	[[Applause on the benches of the LT and GDR groups as well as among non-attached Members]] In theory, I'm not in favour of extending the RSA to children under the age of 25. The Action Together group proposed to experiment on youth with the "citizen base", a mechanism that meets the same objectives while being better in terms of funding. But an amendment to abolish the Republic on the move prevented us from presenting this proposal. That's a shame! Therefore, even if the method of financing suggested by Amendments Nos 11 and 24 is not the one we want to go towards universal income, some of us will be in favour of this time-bound mechanism.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u387	I put to the vote identical amendments Nos 11 and 24.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u388	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 142 Number of votes cast 133 Absolute majority 67 For adoption 50 Against 83
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u389	Heartless!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u390	The rapporteur, Mr Boris Vallaud, has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u391	I am relying on rule 84, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure, concerning the debate on bills and bills. That's where we are! We proposed a Republican compromise amendment: a short-term experiment to help a young person who is drowning. You've done a lot, but you haven't done enough. We proposed to be capable, together, of one of the great moments of truth in our history.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u392	That's not a point of order!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u393	It's coming!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u394	The walls of this Chamber resonate with bitter debates, but they also witness progress. Sometimes, when it comes to the general interest, Republicans manage to get along. This is not the case today.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u395	That's not a point of order!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u396	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups. – Members of the SOC, Agir ens, FI, LT and GDR groups stand up and applaud]] I would therefore like to say to all the young people who were hoping at this democratic moment that it is the tight and revolted heart that I withdraw this text and give the time for debate to the other proposals of the Socialist and related Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u397	How was that a point of order?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u398	What a drama!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u399	[[Exclaims on the SOC benches]] Mr Cyrille Isaac-Sibille has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u400	[[Long protests on the SOC benches]] This morning we had a rich debate and exchanges. We shared the same observations without sharing the same vision. Mr Vallaud, you make this a political issue, and we can only regret it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u401	Ladies and gentlemen, please listen to the speakers! Mr Isaac-Sibille, I regret that you were unable to speak in silence and I thank you for your elegance. [["Oh, no! » on the SOC benches]] Mrs Iborra has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u402	I also ask for the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u403	On the basis of what article?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u404	Article 55. [[Protests on the SOC benches]] We are surprised at the argument that you are making to withdraw your bill. Don't you rather do it because you had submitted some twelve texts for examination...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u405	That's not a point of order!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u406	Respect the debate in Parliament!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u407	We only have one day a year!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u408	[[Exclaims on the SOC benches]] ...and you realize you'll never be able to examine them? I don't think you're very respectful...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u409	Colleagues, see the result: no one gets along! Mrs Iborra has the floor, she will conclude.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u410	No, I don't close right now, Mr. President! Mr Vallaud, I find you unrespectful of the House and the young people to whom you are speaking, out of personal interest. What you're doing is not normal.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u411	Respect the opposition!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u412	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – New exclamations on SOC banks]] Are you afraid we'll find out that your bill wasn't based on anything serious? In any case, we regret the withdrawal.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u413	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u414	I would like to refer to the Rules of Procedure on the basis of Rule 48 on the organisation of parliamentary niches. [["Oh! » on the benches of the LaREM group]] I would also like to respond to Mrs Iborra and her bad faith – especially her bad faith. Each group, Madam, is free to put on the agenda the texts it wishes: this is the rules of procedure of our assembly, whether you agree or not.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u415	Of course! At least leave this to us!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u416	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM and Dem groups]] We have never included twelve texts in the sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u417	Eleven!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u418	We have entered four of them; Other texts were discussed in committee. We have the freedom to organize the layout of texts as we see fit, whether you like it or not. You're using false arguments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u419	We only have one day a year!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u420	[[Protests on the benches of the LaREM group]] [[Applause on the SOC, FI and GDR benches]] You have had several amendments tabled on the text that we have just debated annulled; You have rejected two compromise amendments, defended by both the rapporteurs and Mrs Paula Forteza. We're not going to obstruct. We can see that you don't want to do anything for young people. We take note of this and turn to the following text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u421	Ladies and gentlemen, I have taken note of the withdrawal of the bill by its author, Mr Boris Vallaud, pursuant to Rule 84 of the Rules of Procedure. Consequently, there is no need for further discussion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u422	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u423	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u424	The next item is the debate on the proposal for a law by Mrs Isabelle Santiago and others strengthening the protection of minors who are victims of sexual violence (No 3721, 3878).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u425	Mrs Isabelle Santiago, rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u426	When speaking to the national representation, I first have an emotional thought for my friend Emmanuelle Ajon, who was vice-president of the departmental council of La Gironde, responsible, like me in Val-de-Marne, for child protection and member of the National Council for Child Protection – CNPE – with whom I shared the fight for public policies that promote the rights of the child, including child welfare in danger. She left us brutally on December 14th. At this moment, I want to address my thoughts and all my friendship to his family, and to testify that his word will be missed in the public debate. I would also like to warmly thank the children's professionals at risk, associations, personalities and anonymous persons: thank you for moving society on the issue of sexual violence against minors. Thanks for breaking the omertà. Without Camille Kouchner's book, the # MeTooIncesse movement or the mobilization of associations and personalities, the translation of the evolution of mentalities into the law would have taken time. Thank you all for saying loudly that a child is never consenting to incest or sexual intercourse with an adult and that it is time to change the law. By sending this clear signal, you have helped us carry a landmark message that will allow, at the national level, progress that I am sure will translate into law. I also want to talk to the children I've been with all these years and I'm still with the children's welfare structures, nurseries, foster homes and child welfare foster families. It is for the children met on the ground, whose names, faces and paths come to my mind, that I lead this fight – because I have come alongside the unnamed, because I have too often been confronted, in the course of my experience, with dysfunctions in the child protection service, which is at the crossroads of several public policies that are both the responsibility of the State and the local authorities. It is time for the homeland of human rights – human rights, I dare say – to become the homeland of children's rights. It is for all these reasons that I did not hesitate for a second to table, a few weeks after my arrival in the National Assembly, this bill registered on 5 January, in order to put it on the agenda of the parliamentary niche of the Socialist and related group – the only day of the session during which we can debate our texts. This bill draws on the consequences of the inadequacies of our legislation to protect minors who are victims of sexual crimes. Recall that in June 2018, members of the National Council for Child Protection had already wanted to react to the bill strengthening the fight against sexual and gender-based violence. Although the text, of which Alexandra Louis was rapporteur, contained some progress, we already noted the lack of consideration in criminal law of the specificities of children and adolescents – that is, their emotional and cognitive immaturity and their inability to oppose adults – in order to determine the existence of coercion, threat, violence or surprise during sexual acts committed by an adult against a minor. We were already recommending that the bill introduced in 2018 be amended to introduce a specific offence, imposing an absolute ban on any adult to commit an act of sexual penetration on a child under the age of 15, under penalty of a criminal conviction, and that the prohibition be set at 18 years for incest. We did not need additional reports or commissions to know that the law needed to be changed. However, I never question the work of the committees or the reports they draw up: they help to shed light on the many outstanding issues, and I trust the committee on incest and sexual violence against children recently set up to make proposals on prevention and training. But how can we not start by changing the law to send a clear signal to society?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u427	It is a legal question, indeed!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u428	In the eyes of a child, the adult represents authority, knowledge and wisdom. The child is therefore not able to escape the adult's grip – let alone the grip of an incestuous parent, on whom he depends and who finds himself an attachment figure. Who is interested in these issues and the evolution of neurosciences knows that the trauma and the consequences of such acts on the development of the child are immeasurable. The need to set a non-consent threshold at 18 years in the event of incest is no longer discussed: there is an urgent need.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u429	I agree! She's absolutely right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u430	It would be unworthy if the homeland of human rights left these children behind for longer. We therefore call for France to adopt this age limit. From now on, instructs the law to ensure that this word is heard and accompanied, as President Emmanuel Macron has committed himself to it. I am also pleased that in recent days the Government has joined the principle of non-consent in cases of sexual abuse of minors or incest. That was not exactly the case during the debates in the Senate in January. I am delighted that we are simply sharing the objective expressed in the original wording of this bill, as I tabled on January 5. That is why I would like to express my incomprehension, probably due to my weak parliamentary experience, and even my anger at the turn of the debates in the Committee on Laws. Unless it is normal for the majority to behave like a cuckoo, expulsing eggs from other groups from the nest to lay their eggs there...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u431	It's happened a lot!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u432	...– in this case, she laid her egg on 9 February – her attitude is terribly similar to an obstruction of the parliamentary debate. I have thus discovered that it prefers to cut short the legislative work that I have undertaken with the Members: while many amendments have been tabled to enrich the text, the majority group has refused any working meeting. It's a ubiquitous situation! I cannot believe that the Government supports this cuckoo method used against the work of the opposition parliamentarians, especially to address a major issue that should bring us all together and to consider a text that, enriched with amendments, was in every way in line with the Government's recent announcements and on which we had called for the expedited procedure to be promulgated as soon as possible. The complete redrafting in committee of Rule 1, which now contains thirty-nine more paragraphs, has prohibited any debate on the amendments that we wish to propose. The proposed new wording of article 227-14-1 of the Criminal Code lays down an additional condition for the establishment of criminal and criminal offences of sexual violence: they will not be constituted if the age difference between the adult involved and the child is less than five years. This addition, made without any serious legislative work, will lead to incredible situations: the new age gap condition would, in its current wording, constitute a regression in the protection of victims. The point is that it would even make criminal law more favourable to the respondents!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u433	Anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u434	It would therefore be of immediate and retroactive application: all ongoing cases of sexual abuse of children aged 13 to 15 by adults aged 18 and 19 may be terminated without possible prosecution. I would add that the establishment of a threshold of 18 years for incestuous sexual offences is a measure that we have, of course, defended but which, in its current wording, loses its legibility by being made up of six separate provisions. For all these reasons, the text, as voted by the Committee on Laws, is no longer the one I was defending.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u435	Luckily!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u436	When are you going to take it off?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u437	It is even contrary to the interests of minors. I say congratulations to all those who have accomplished this feat! [[Applause on the SOC, FI and GDR benches. – Mr Guillaume Chiche and Mrs Albane Gaillot also applaud]] To take up a sentence attributed to Victor Hugo, nothing is more powerful than an idea whose time has come. This bill introduced in December was surely at the time of history. It is now up to national representatives to live up to their commitments to protect minors and to open up new rights. I extend my full confidence to parliamentarians. Whatever happens, we've already won. The opinion has won.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u438	The next speaker is Mr Custody of the Seals, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u439	What's the opinion of the day? He's varied so much!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u440	He's still more lucid than Mrs. Schiappa!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u441	We have no right to be wrong. We must ensure both better protection of children and respect for our main legal principles. This reflection must be conducted resolutely but without haste, with height of sight, nuance, discernment. While the emotion that often animates these societal debates is legitimate, it cannot be our only guide. The release of the words of victims of sexual crimes, including incest, in recent weeks obliges us. It obliges us no longer to close our eyes, to look in front of what, too long, society did not want to see. Too long the words of the victims have been ignored, stifled, put in a bell, as our friend Bruno Questel said this morning. Thanks to strong, courageous and powerful voices, that time is now over. Since the beginning of the quinquennium, the President of the Republic, the Government and the majority have made child protection a priority.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u442	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u443	The 2018 law already had some major advances but more needs to be done. We are here today to discuss the bill advocated by Mrs Santiago and to discuss the means to be used in order to make it clear that we are not touching children and that no rapist can say that a child is consenting. It is the complexity of the normative work that awaits us. The aim is to propose coherent and coordinated solutions to protect all minor victims in accordance with our rule of law. While social networks today have liberating virtues on this and other issues, I wish to emphasize in a solemn way here that justice does not go on the Internet, either in the media or in the street. Democracy is based on law. Justice cannot go under the influence of emotion, guilt is not the business of the greatest number. The courts use precautions and rules that guarantee our freedom and are not obsolete. Similarly, the legislator and the Government cannot be carried away by a passion, an emotion that would trample on the great principles that our civilized society has taken millennia to develop.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u444	We agree on that!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u445	It's out of the question!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u446	It is therefore with great wisdom that the President of the Republic has called for extensive consultations with associations dedicated to the protection of children. Adrien Taquet and I retain their daily commitment not only to the victims but also to the general public as part of the necessary preventive work. By making the invisible visible and expressing the indescribable, they put us definitively in the face of our responsibilities. The consultations also revealed that the views of the different associations, and even among the members of the same association, may sometimes be diverging. While consensus has been reached on the establishment of the age limit at 15, there have been many disagreements regarding incest and prescription. For my part, I have recalled the constitutional requirements which guarantee our rule of law and which frame the lines of normative work. I am sure that the associations have measured our heavy responsibility. I would like to stress this because I am of course aware of the commitment of Mrs Santiago and of the work that has been done on this bill. The expectations of the victims and the practitioners who protect them are too strong for us to risk creating disappointment and misunderstanding in the face of a reform that would be censored by the Constitutional Council. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Ladies and gentlemen, I know your commitment and your desire to move forward on these crucial issues. In particular, I would like to pay a very strong tribute to Alexandra Louis for his determination, since the law of 2018, to move the lines in this regard. I hope that no adult can now avail himself of the consent of a minor under the age of 15, whether it is rape or, I would like to point out, sexual assault. But it is imperative to recall the constitutional requirements of legality, proportionality and equality before the criminal law. As you know, I am in favour of an age gap to avoid criminalizing teenage love. But, of course, the aim of introducing this age gap is not, and cannot be, to protect unconscionable sexual relations. The present positive law will then apply. Our duty is to ensure the protection of our children but under no circumstances to censor the sexual life of our teenagers. These particular situations exist, they are commonplace and it would be irresponsible not to take them into account. There is no question of setting up a morality police with teenagers.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u447	It's cowardice!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u448	Then comes another fundamental issue, that of incest, which is being debated within the associations but also within this House. I would like to propose that the protection threshold be raised to 18 years. However, the scope of the incest remains under discussion in order to avoid constitutional censorship. Your amendments already demonstrate the complexity of this issue. There is also the problem of prescription. Let us first remember that in 2018, it was extended by ten years for these crimes, increasing from twenty to thirty years from the majority of the victim. The imprescriptibility is rightly debated. Let us recall at this moment that Robert Badinter wants it to be reserved only for crimes against humanity. It should also be noted that the consultations I have conducted show that the statute of limitations is useful to victims on a dual basis: in the near term of the statute of limitations, those who want a trial are encouraged to denounce the facts, while the acquisition of the statute of limitations allows those who wish to free their word without a trial to finally express themselves. I also hope that our law will evolve so that more egalitarian protection can be applied to the multiple victims of the same perpetrator. The aim is to establish a statute of limitations allowing these victims to benefit from the same judicial treatment. The Chancery is working very actively on its implementation. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government has wished to take the time for consultation. Now it is a rigorous drafting of these proposals. I will submit them to you very shortly in the form of amendments when I consider the bill that Senator Annick Billon has advocated, which you will be considering in the coming days and whose adoption is guaranteed in a tight schedule.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u449	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u450	You are responsible for the agenda, you can register it whenever you want!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u451	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] In conclusion, I give you my conviction on this subject: there can be no political competition, only the interests of the child.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u452	You're in charge of the agenda!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u453	Frankly, Congressman...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u454	What do you mean, frankly?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u455	You think we didn't see you coming?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u456	What the hell is this?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u457	What does this answer mean?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u458	The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Children and Families.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u459	The discussion that brings us together today is an important step, not only because this bill is part of a political and media context marked by debates on child protection – and I am pleased that parliamentarians of all walks of life wanted to create spaces for reflection on the subject – but also because the strengthening of the law on issues of sexual violence against children is fundamental. We all know that we need to go even further and understand the phenomenon of sexual violence in a comprehensive, systemic way. This reform of the criminal law is necessary because it will allow us to better protect our children and to impose a clear and unequivocal prohibition. However, this evolution alone will not suffice, nor will the current movement of liberation of the word, the bursting of testimonies. A collective effort is essential to act in all fields, the repression of course but also the prevention, detection, the training of professionals, the accompaniment of victims and the care of the perpetrators. We owe it to the millions of lives damaged from an early age, to those lives shattered by sexual violence and its consequences, which we know today to be harmful to the victims, to their entourage and to society as a whole. Éva Thomas, Lydia Gouardo, Sarah Abitbol, Laurent Boyet, Vanessa Springora, Camille Kouchner, but also tens of thousands of anonymities who spoke without waiting for them to be given it: all tell us that sexual violence against children is there everywhere with a gloomy banality and that the incest, this taboo that Claude Lévi-Strauss believed to be common to all societies, has not disappeared, quite the contrary. The law must of course evolve, we must get rid of what Jean-Marc Sauvé calls "this blind point of our right" which leads to an attempt to discern in a child consent to a sexual relationship with an adult. This research, which postulates a kind of equality, of co-responsibility in such sexual intercourse is illusory. On the contrary, we must consider the asymmetry between adults and children, the relationships of domination and control, and probably break with the very notion of consent. The etymology of the word "consent" – of the Latin consent, "feeling the same" – has no meaning here. I thank the Keeper of the Seals, Éric Dupond-Moretti, for the excellent work we have done together in recent weeks, in close consultation with all the associations, and which led to the recent announcements, which he recalled much better than I could do, on the age threshold and on the strengthening of the prescription mechanisms. But what I have just said will only make sense if we also adopt, as the President of the Republic has hoped, an approach of prevention and accompaniment for the victims whose ambition is to live up to the silence that has prevailed for decades. The President thus announced on 23 January the first two strong measures that the Government is working to make effective. On the one hand, "two screening and prevention appointments" will be organized at primary and secondary schools throughout the country. This policy of prevention from an early age is crucial to identify, assist and protect children who are victims of sexual violence and thus to put an end to them permanently. The work is under way with Jean-Michel Blanquer in order to strengthen the action already being taken by all national education professionals, thus making the school a key place of protection and identification thanks to the involvement of the entire educational community. On the other hand, it is equally essential that victims be given full psychological support. But we need to go even further, especially with regard to the prevention of acts committed by potential perpetrators. In this regard, the Government is in conjunction with the Federation of Resource Centres for Sexual Violence Intervenors, which has set up a telephone service for assessment and referral to care for people who are sexually attracted to children. Because preventing the act is also the source of sexual violence. To this end, professionals have relied on proven devices in neighbouring countries – in Germany since 2005 and in England since the 1990s. It was also necessary to address the issue of sexual violence suffered by children with disabilities, who were even more victims than other children and for whom freedom of speech was often a beautiful concept but far removed from the reality of their lives. Nameing things, defining them, quantifying them and understanding them in all their complexity are issues that go beyond the scope of the law and concern us all as individuals, as a nation, as a people. The work of the associations gives us a better understanding of these situations and their consequences; They will be deepened, and the independent commission on incest and sexual violence during childhood, co-chaired by Nathalie Mathieu and Édouard Durand, will contribute. It is a matter of breaking, when necessary, what Paul Éluard, at the time of the Violette Nozière affair, called "the awful snake knot of the blood bonds." [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem, Agir ens and LT groups]] We will have to collectively question our patterns of thinking, still based on domination and on a conception that probably remains too patrimonial for the child, in order to rise to the height of children, a condition indispensable to finally being a subject of full and complete right.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u460	In the general debate, Mr Hervé Saulignac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u461	More than half of the victims of rape in our country are under the age of 15, almost a third are even under the age of 10. Everyone here knows the extent of these crimes, which appear to us every day to be more numerous; The book-witnesses are multiplying, the campaigns on social networks too, causing in their wake revelations of facts for so long buried. This bill is thus caught up in the news even though it has been under construction for a long time. The wave that has risen will not stop. And the victims who finally free themselves from a burden refer us to the shortcomings of our legislation which has not been able to protect them from the sexual crimes that have bruised their existence! In the current state of law, when a victim is under the age of 15, moral coercion or surprise is characterized by a lack of discernment. It is then up to the prosecutor's office to determine whether or not the victim had the necessary discernment. In this regard, the reality in our jurisdictions is very diverse and many cases end up being re-qualified as sexual assault to end up before only a correctional court. This is how, sometimes, judicial treatment appears to be far below the suffering endured. Yet rape is no longer a crime since 1980 but a crime, and it is as such that it must be tried, without any alternative qualification or possible mitigation! What is discernment when you're under the age of 15? Should a child, because he or she is a child, not, as a matter of principle, enjoy absolute and exclusive protection, without it being called into question by the assumption of consent? We believe it intimately. The time has come to make it clear that a child is never consenting to a sexual relationship with an adult, has fortioriquiand it is a parent. That is why everything that opposes the release of the word must be erased in order to give way to an incitement to the word. And from this point of view, the road ahead will be long. To talk is to get naked, to expose oneself to the doubts of the investigators, to the questioning sometimes of his behaviour, it is to submit to questions that try to establish his degree of discernment. Speaking, it may also lead his entourage into a torment that goes beyond you... to the point of resigning himself to silence. To speak is to expose oneself to the horde of indecent commentators who sometimes make the victim a culprit and the culprit a victim. All obstacles in the way to truth and justice must be removed. The first of these orders us to put forward a clear legislative principle: the absolute prohibition of a sexual relationship between a person of age and a minor under the age of 15 – while bearing in mind, to repeat your remarks, Minister, that we must not "criminalize teenage love". It is on the basis of this evidence that the Socialist and related group, by the voice of Isabelle Santiago, decided to submit this bill to you. I would like to acknowledge the unwavering commitment of associations, activists and child protection experts, with whom our rapporteur has really worked. How far we have come in almost three years, since the intense and heated debates that have sparked the bill against sexual and gender-based violence, which has not made it possible to move forward as we would have liked! Setting a 15-year-old age limit today would be a major step forward, making sense for all French people. However, here I want to denounce the majority's manoeuvre, which, by almost completely rewriting our bill in committee, has shown the lack of consideration it has for the serious work done by our group!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u462	It's the other way around! Otherwise, we would have really rewritten it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u463	[[Applause on the SOC benches]] Nor does it have any consideration for the firm commitment of our rapporteur, who, for her part, has tried to bring together all the parliamentary groups around a shared position. This rewriting weakens the original text and raises serious concerns. We fervently hope, Minister, that, at the end of the debate in the sitting, we have been allowed to restore the best interests of the child. [[Applause on the SOC and GDR benches]] In conclusion, I would like to recall here the answer that we are currently making to all those who are finally speaking, the hope that we will also give to all those who are hesitant, who doubt and who may see in these provisions an encouragement to take the step. Having recalled that there can be no political competition on such a subject, you, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, rise to the height of this particular moment in our country; Let us open up our new rights for what we have most dearly: our children!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u464	Mr Dimitri Houbron has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u465	[[Applause on several benches of the groups Acter ens, LaREM, Dem and SOC]] I would like to begin by thanking you, the rapporteur, for your commitment to this issue for many years and for this bill. I also wanted to greet our colleague Sophie Auconie, who, as I learned, will soon leave us, attesting to my friendship and the pride I had in sitting as a young parliamentarian with him. A child is the beginning of what he must be; To protect it, it is ultimately to strengthen the adult citizen that it will become. Children are beings under construction that our role as legislator, because of our mandate, but also responsible adults, because of our state, is to protect. Let us recall here a few figures in order to underline the urgent need to legislate and provide solutions to the problems raised by this bill: 40% of the rapes and attempted rapes reported concern children under 15 years of age; 27% of children under the age of 10 are affected; It is estimated that one child is raped every hour in France, the sexual predator being a close nine times out of ten. These dreadful figures, still below reality, as we know, bear witness to the magnitude of the phenomenon and force us to act. Since Eva Thomas's testimony in 1986, in her book The Viol of Silence, as well as since the work of psychiatrist Muriel Salmona, the effects of incest and sexual violence on minors have been widely documented. The Secretary of State recalled that the individual cost of these abuses is unthinkable, but there is also a collective cost. Sexual violence in childhood is the primary factor in attempts to commit suicide, depression, eating disorders or chronic diseases in adulthood; These stolen childhoods create disoriented adults. On these issues, the evolution of consciousness has not been followed by legal developments. Our criminal law does not adequately protect children from sexual predators. Coercion, threat, violence or surprise must be demonstrated to characterize sexual assault or rape. This is tantamount to bringing the judge's or juror's assessment of the victim's behaviour and, therefore, inevitably leads them to ask themselves the question of his or her consent. However, the concept of consent, which is already complex when the victim is an adult, simply does not have a place in the debate when the victim is particularly young. In her book The Consent, Vanessa Springora explains well the whole issue of this problem when she writes that the question is not whether the minor child thought he was in love or whether he was forced by force to have sex, the problem coming entirely from the perpetrator of the act which, whatever the minor's behaviour, does not have to consider him as his equal. It is the responsibility of adults. A child can never consent to sexual intercourse with a major for the simple reason that he is a child. The creation of an autonomous offence with the age of the victim as its constituent element is therefore an indispensable and urgent step forward to be incorporated into our legal arsenal. This proposal for a law, although enriched in the Committee on Laws where it has been completely rewritten by several amendments by our colleague Alexandra Louis, whom I welcome for his commitment, and by those of the Members of the Group of the European People's Party. The Republicans, in my view, are not yet entirely satisfactory for reasons of substance. No increase in the amount of punishment is foreseen for incestuous sexual assaults compared to so-called simple sexual assaults. The members of the Group of the European People's Party have therefore tabled an amendment to ensure that the prohibition of incest is clearly reaffirmed in the scale of penalties. Similarly, several of my amendments, co-signed by my colleagues in the group, are aimed at clearly naming the autonomous offences that the legislator will create because it is important, for the legibility and intelligibility of our criminal law, but also for the recognition of victims, that the offences be clearly identifiable. In addition, work remains essential on the offence of non-denunciation of a crime or offence committed against minors, for which several of our amendments aim to extend the limitation period. The responsibility of those who know and do not speak is immense, especially since children rarely speak on their own initiative. Finally, beyond the implementation of this bill, it remains to raise awareness and train professionals, who must have the necessary tools to identify signs of violence from school, as well as to enable everyone to identify and report the facts and to accompany the victims. It is not the fight of adults who were victims when they were children, it is not the fight of women: it is a fight that our whole society must lead. [[Applause on the banks of the Action ens and LaREM groups as well as on a few benches of the SOC group]] In conclusion, I would like to send a message of hope to the victims, in order to inspire them to overcome obstacles even if they seem insurmountable: speak, free the word, you are not guilty of anything and victims of everything, speak of it, denounce your executioners! And I will borrow the words of the President of the Republic on January 23rd, saying to them, "We are here. We're listening. We believe you. And you'll never be alone again. »
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u466	[[Supported applause on the benches of the groups LaREM, Dem, SOC, Agir ens, IUD-I, LT and GDR]] Mrs Auconia, I agree with Mr Houbron's remarks. With great respect, I call you to the rostrum and I give you the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u467	That's a lot of emotion, Mr. President. Our criminal law does not adequately protect child victims of sexual violence. In my view, two reasons explain this sad fact. The first relates to the problem of consent. How can we imagine that a child can consent to sexual intercourse, whatever it is, with an adult? Yet it is this consideration that has made it impossible to qualify rape in cases that are all more icy than each other and that we all have in mind. The second relates to the problem of prescription. Indeed, many facts revealed many years later remain unpunished. But these facts are proven. Denying a trial to the victims and not punishing the perpetrators sends back the image of a certain resignation totally contradictory with the seriousness of the facts. [[Applause on the benches of the IDU-I, LR and LT groups]] It is therefore high time to take up the subject by rising to the level of the stakes. The changes have already taken way too long. In 2018, the Government once again missed an opportunity. Indeed, the rape report I had written with the president of the delegation on women's rights already advocated radical developments regarding sexual offences against minors. Unfortunately, at the time, some of the amendments we were defending were considered unconstitutional by the pair of seals, Mrs Belloubet, and the Secretary of State, Marlène Schiappa. Today, Mr Secretary of State, the binomial that you represent, the keeper of the seals, considers that these amendments are admissible, that we can debate them in the House, or even incorporate them into a law of progress. It's, for me, very satisfying. [[Applause on the benches of the LT group and on several benches of the LR group]] In addition, a number of amendments that were often rejected because the then rapporteur, Alexandra Louis, considered to be contrary to the Constitution, had become much less unconstitutional or even used in the rewriting of certain articles. I welcome this approach, although I regret that it took three years. The IDU and independent group is of course in favour of the creation of autonomous offences; It is for us the only solution to finally stop addressing the issue of consent. Whatever the circumstances of the case, there must be a clear prohibition: an act of penetration by a major against a minor under the age of 15 is a crime, without reference to any consent of the minor. Similarly, incest must be punished for what it is and not only remain an overqualification without any additional consequences. The bill we are discussing satisfies these objectives, and I welcome the rapporteur, Mrs Santiago. While it is pleased that the work in committee has been completed, we regret the method used. In addition, I would like to acknowledge the work of my colleague Senator Annick Billon, who presented to the Senate a very high quality text that we will be discussing in the near future. Beyond these considerations, writing things clearly in the law is a major step forward and an inevitable step, because it is up to the criminal law to set the values to be defended in our society. Thank you for allowing us to do that. The IDU and independent group has long supported the objectives of this bill. On the other hand, one important point still needs to be addressed, that of traumatic amnesia. We will have the opportunity to discuss it, this phenomenon is not being taken into account and we hope that our work will allow us to reflect on the subject. Personally, I am in favour of the crimes we are discussing becoming imprescriptible. Of course, this applies only to crimes against humanity, but I consider our children to be humanity – we will have the opportunity to talk about it again. Whatever solution is found on the issue of limitation, it should not be overlooked that it commits in part to the applicability of the legal innovations that we wish to bring. [[Mrs. and Mr. Members of Parliament and members of the Government rise and applaud at length]] I will conclude my speech with a more personal note. This text will certainly be one of the last that I will have the opportunity to vote in my life as a Member who will soon end. I'll take care of myself and I'll come back; It's just a bet in parentheses. For all our children, I'm proud to be here today.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u468	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u469	"MeToo", "MeTooGay", "MeTooIncesse", "Iwas", "IwasCorsica": these words-diases relayed on social networks by thousands of victims – most of them women, but also men, but especially people who were children at the time of the facts – testify not only to the massive and systemic nature of sexual violence, but also to the institutional failures – and even resistances – to recognize and deconstruct the mechanisms of culture and the relationships of domination that nourish and structure such violence. Thanks to these mobilizations, it is as much the word of the victims as the listening to society that has liberated itself. Children are the first victims of sexual violence. Every year 130,000 girls and 35,000 boys are subjected to violence and attempted rape, in addition to the 94,000 women and 16,000 major men involved in these crimes. Of all sexual violence, 80 per cent begin before the age of 18, 51 per cent before the age of 11 and 21 per cent before the age of 6. In the face of such violence, neither society nor institutions are up to the challenge. While there are few in-depth investigations into the judicial treatment of sexual violence against minors, the few existing data, probably underestimated, are instructive: the number of attacks is higher than the number of complaints, which is also higher than the number of convictions. Two thirds of the victims saw no consequence of the attacker's report. Medical and psychological care is insufficient as well as judicial protection. At the end of the investigations, 70 per cent of the complaints were dismissed, 15 per cent of them for non-compliance, twice as many as in cases involving adults. Moreover, the phenomenon of the correction of rapes, i.e. their requalification as sexual assault or assault, is important. In 2018, the law strengthening action against sexual and gender-based violence made it all the less possible to correct these serious shortcomings as the means of justice suffer from chronic insufficiency. The bill being debated today gives us the opportunity to resume an important parliamentary discussion that has ended far too soon. I welcome the initiative of the rapporteur Santiago and her long-standing work on these issues with associations and groups of victims, who have been fighting this fight for years and are looking forward to much of our discussions. I also assure him of my solidarity with the somewhat cavalier methods which led to the total rewriting of the text in committee. By 2017, the La France insoumée group had asked the Government about the need to clarify the law by introducing a presumption of non-consent at the age of 15. Both during the debates on the law strengthening action against sexual and gender-based violence in 2018, and at the time of the tabling, in 2019, of the bill to combat sexual violence against children, which was co-signed by deputies from all sides, we argued for a reversal of the burden of proof and the introduction of a simple presumption of coercion for minors under 13 years of age. Madam rapporteur, your proposal goes further. Article 1, rewritten in committee, creates a new offence of rape of a minor, if a minor commits an act of sexual penetration or any oral act of any kind on a minor of 15 years of age. This is a major change because if the penal code already punishes sexual violence against minors, it is often up to the child victim to prove his or her non-consent. With this new provision, this will no longer be the case. It is happy and we support this progress. We would also like to go further in the fight against sexual violence against minors. The culture of rape that legitimizes and perpetuates such violence must be addressed. That is the meaning of the three amendments that we have tabled, but two of them have unfortunately been declared inadmissible on the grounds that they would have no connection, even indirect, with the text. However, our amendment No. 130 asked the Government for a report to assess the relevance of training the various health, justice and education professionals in contact with minors in order to enable them to detect such violence and to accompany the victims. Amendment No. 131 requested the Government to report on the establishment of a massive campaign to combat violence against minors, aimed at all children in school and adapted to their age. Silence around sexual violence often leads children to ignore the abnormality and seriousness of the situation they are experiencing, hence the importance of preventive action. These amendments had as much to do with the text as the only one that was miraculously spared. It points to the need to establish scientifically more serious statistics than they currently exist. We regret that our amendments have not been accepted. We would have liked them to be debated or even adopted. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group. "Mr. Philippe Naillet also applauds]] We wish to recall the urgency of building a culture of consent against the culture of rape that deconstructs the relations of power and domination that are the cause of all violence. This bill is a step in a political work that must continue, beyond today's vote, through broad public policies. It is up to us, as parliamentarians, to monitor and, if necessary, punish the measures that must be taken to put an end to sexual violence against minors, which we all aspire to.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u470	Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u471	As we meet to discuss the protection of minors who are victims of sexual violence, I hope that we will not drift and that we will be able to meet the expectations of 66 million French. Do we have to remember that the incest concerns one in ten Frenchmen? According to this statistic, more than 50 Members of Parliament have been subjected to incestuous acts. If some have had the courage to free their word, how much keep it buried in them? Let us think of these existing blockages and the secrets that some will take – as soon as possible – into their graves, because of their inability to express themselves about what they have suffered. Through our discussions, we will no doubt strengthen the sanctions against those who commit the horrific crimes of violence and rape against minors and incestuous acts. But we must also promote prevention, to ensure that justice no longer has to be mobilised for such acts. I expect that in our Assembly, in addition to being legislators, we can also be politicians. I can hear the need for balance recalled by Mr. Keeper of Seals. We can no doubt understand why the majority has completely rebuilt a bill from an opposition group. We can build and move forward. However, we must first of all take advantage of this moment to convey a message: there is no more horrible crime than harming the intimate of a child, and even more so when it is a very close person who commits it. That is the meaning of our action and the idea that we must carry. So I could no doubt read the speech I had prepared, talk about what must progress, welcome the many initiatives, express how much we must not be mistaken in the construction of the law. But between us, even if the bill is out of order, if some of its provisions or amendments that will be adopted present a risk of unconstitutionality, which, including among the most recently elected deputies – of which is part The rapporteur – does not know that it is a political construction on which we must rely rather than a legislative construction that should be dismantled? That is where we expect the majority. Similarly, we would have liked the guarding of seals, in addition to the vigilance imposed on it by its function, to bring the weight of its stentor voice to go beyond the sole framework of this morning's debate. As a parliamentarian, perhaps more experienced than others, I recall having taken up an initiative in 2012 by our former colleague Edwige Antier – some may still remember – who had the courage to assert in the Chamber that ordinary educational violence must be excluded from our society. It was in 2011: at the time, 70% of French people thought that education was through violence! That's the reality! And Edwige Antier had the courage to introduce a bill that I took over during my first term, despite the difficulties. I welcome our colleague Maud Petit, who, in 2017, tabled a bill that resulted in the amendment of the Civil Code so that at the time of their marriage, spouses are told that they must educate their children out of violence. So it took eight years! Eight years between the initial submission of this proposal in 2011 and its implementation in 2019! In the meantime, the children then became adults and could not benefit from this provision. What are we playing at?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u472	Please close.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u473	I solemnly say to you, rather than by reading my text: let us not drag on and finally let us reduce the statistics of incest so that we can no longer say that fifty to sixty parliamentarians sitting in the Chamber know from experience what it is!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u474	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-18-O1176.u475	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Further discussion of the proposed law strengthening the protection of minors who are victims of sexual violence; Discussion of the proposal for a law establishing a compensation fund for victims of the covid-19; Discussion of the proposed law to reform the taxation of inheritance and donation rights: protecting the middle and popular classes, and better redistribute wealth. The meeting is adjourned.
