ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u1	The next item is the debate on the follow-up to the health crisis, which was decided by the Conference of Presidents on 2 February. In view of the importance of the pandemic and its consequences, she hoped that the National Assembly would pay particular attention to the modalities under which France faced it. This debate is also a continuation of the numerous hearings conducted by the committees in their respective areas of competence. I would like to recall that this work has been the subject of a joint publication, which was previously published on the website of the National Assembly. The Conference of Presidents decided to hold this debate in two parts. As a first step, we will hear representatives of the committees and the parliamentary office for the evaluation of scientific and technological choices (OPECST), speakers of the groups and then the Government. We will then move on to a series of questions and answers. The president of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u2	For the past year, the health crisis has changed the lives of all our citizens and affected many sectors of activity. Not one of the members of the committee that I have the honour to chair has been spared: whether it is education, research, culture, the media, sports, associations, our youth, all the people concerned have been hard hit in their activities, in their vocations, in their passions, in what gives meaning to life. For members of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, monitoring the consequences of the health crisis is a constant concern, in the framework of special bodies such as working groups or flash missions, or hearings of ministers, which we regularly invite. At a round table on French research and covid-19, four leading researchers also presented us with the advances of French research in vaccine and therapeutics; I then alerted the Minister of Higher Education, Frédérique Vidal, about the main difficulties they mentioned. It is not yet possible to present the conclusions of all our work at a time when the situation is constantly changing; Instead, I will focus on identifying what constitutes for me the major advances in managing this unprecedented crisis and the main challenges we face. The main positive point is, in my view, the continued opening of schools, which will not surprise you. I have often said this during the first confinement: the school cannot move on the Internet. The closure of all schools last spring was very painfully experienced by teachers, students and their families. The need to keep schools open has been the subject of near-consensus, and it is to the credit of our country that it has built a school strategy based on barrier gestures and tests. In this regard, the development of salivary tests in kindergartens and elementary schools is excellent news, as young children support them much better than nasopharyngeal samples.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u3	We must also think about the replacement of teachers!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u4	I'm coming, Mr Cordier. The target of 300,000 tests per week is crucial to keep schools open during this third wave. However, it seems to me important to rest here on the issue of priority vaccination of teachers, who are in contact with a public in which the circulation of the virus seems to accelerate as new variants appear. We are all aware of the difficulties associated with replacement, a structural problem which has arisen acutely in recent weeks. On the other hand, I am pleased that art and cultural education courses have been able to reopen, even partially; It's a real breath of oxygen. And I am pleased that since December, music schools have found their students. Finally, the most recent authorization for the resumption of physical and sports education activities – EPS – inside, without wearing the mask and in compliance with the rules of distancing, was very much expected. Many physical activities, other than group sports, will be able to resume for the greater benefit of the students. The second strong point is the massive support of the State for artists and cultural professionals. Since March 2020, EUR 7.5 billion have been allocated to them: EUR 5 billion in cross-cutting measures and more than EUR 2 billion in the form of specific measures under the Ministry of Culture's budget – allow me here to welcome the Minister and wish her a speedy recovery. Our country's commitment is unrivalled. What, then, is France, if not a country that loves culture and its artists? She did not hesitate, for example, to decide a white year for intermittents. It has taken unprecedented measures in the rest of the world; We must recognize him and be proud of him. Of course, we hear slogans that do not go in this direction in the demonstrations, but it is only to see what goes on across the Manche, where the Prime Minister encourages artists to reconvert, to be convinced by the adage: when you look at yourself, you desolate yourself, when you compare yourself, you console yourself. So I invite everyone to look at what's happening abroad. There are many challenges ahead. I am of course thinking of the situation of the students, even though there have also been replies from the Government, such as the one-euro meal served in the CROUS – regional centres of academic and academic works. I will also mention, with regard to culture, the resumption of shows and festivals. As far as the opening of museums is concerned, I believe that we will be able to make rapid progress thanks to a mechanism implemented elsewhere, that of making appointments, in accordance with curfew schedules and the usual barrier actions. In conclusion, I would like to stress the importance of the resumption of sports practice and the return of the public to sporting events. It's a lot about culture but I don't forget that the big recurring events in our territories are also rugby and football matches, expected all week by fans who live their passion to the full.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u5	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u6	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] I hope that vaccination will allow us as quickly as possible, as reasonably possible, to meet all of us in sports and cultural venues. Until then, I wish all of us all the best to stand together!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u7	Mr President, I should like to say that the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy is chairing the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u8	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] March 16, 2020 is probably one of those dates when each of us remembers where it was: 35 million French – a historic audience – listened to the President of the Republic announce that France should enter confinement. As far as I'm concerned, I was in Montreal. I had hoped to start a circuit tour as I liked to do regularly, but I had to fly back to Paris. Since then, I have been a Member of Parliament without wings, having been unable to return to my constituency, which I greet by the way. I am now dealing with it like many of us at a distance, sometimes using video conferencing, e-mail and virtual exchanges in an abusive way. I had to adapt my activities like all of us did. The French and French have been at the meeting, the Government has been at the meeting, and since everyone may not be doing so today, I would like to take this opportunity to thank you personally, Minister, for all the efforts you have been making for a little more than a year.You have not been unemployed and you have done very well!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u9	That's the Coué method!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u10	That's the truth!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u11	More like your truth!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u12	National representation has also been at the meeting; Each of us can testify to this, whether it is the daily work in the riding or our presence here. We have debated a great deal, voted a lot, asked countless questions to the Government. The Committee on Economic Affairs has adapted very quickly to do its job as best as possible, which has essentially remained a task of monitoring and evaluating your activities, Mr Minister, and that of your colleagues. At the outset, we set up seven trans-party working groups in which all the groups were involved. Everyone will agree that the Committee on Economic Affairs has worked in a logic of unity and assembly, without concession but in a spirit of construction, in order to change the safeguard arrangements that the Government had put in place, mainly in Bercy. Some of our recommendations have been followed, including the threshold effects of the solidarity fund, the rebuilding of companies' stocks, payment deadlines, support by the public order, the relevance of the NAF codes – the French activity nomenclature – and APE – the company's main activity – to facilitate companies' access to the aid. We have also placed a great deal of emphasis on the specific support of the event sector and on the role of insurers who might have been better able to support even better than they did the sectors in difficulty. With the start of vaccination, we have entered a new sequence that fully mobilises the Committee on Economic Affairs. As you said, Mr Studer, the key is the vaccination plan. We follow him with Agnes Pannier-Runacher, paying particular attention to production and delivery, which are essential for vaccines to reach all French and French people in time and time.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u13	That's already missed!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u14	Thanks to this vaccination campaign, we can also begin to project ourselves in the post-crisis phase. Our role is to follow the recovery plan: of the 100 billion we voted here, more than 25 billion are already committed. We must begin to consider phasing out aid by ensuring that it will not be too fast for the affected sectors and that it will be as effective as possible for those sectors which can resume almost normal activity. We will be particularly sensitive to the transition between state-guaranteed loans – PGE – and participative loans, which seem to us to be a particularly suitable tool to accompany the recovery. We also need to work on the recovery protocols so that they can, in full clarity, be resumed as quickly as possible in sectors facing difficulties. I would like to conclude by launching an essential debate on the health pass, Minister. I am convinced that, in order to resume normal international mobility – and this concerns me particularly as a member of the French parliament established outside France – in order to allow entrepreneurs, both men and women, who work abroad, who represent us all over the world, to move more effectively, it will probably be necessary to consider the introduction of a certificate of vaccination. Within our borders – some of my colleagues will no doubt approach the issue from a different angle – this health pass is undoubtedly a prerequisite for taking up the cultural and sports activities to which Bruno Studer referred, but also the activities of tourism, a very important sector which France needs more than ever to accompany the recovery. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] I just have to thank you all and tell you this: we're going!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u15	Mr President, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u16	As Cornelius would say, it is a great and sad honour for me today, as chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, to extend the word that Marielle de Sarnez expressed in the last months of her life in a wonderful report that showed the pandemic in its entirety. His absence requires us to have the same look as she does: to see things from the top, to take the problems as a whole, in order to place ourselves at the right level to meet the challenge we are facing. Marielle de Sarnez made several fundamental observations. The first is that the pandemic is a universal evil that must be treated as such. As General de Gaulle would have said, this is a global affair that a French-French battle would not resolve. Everyone's been hit and we're going to have to get out of it together. [[Mr CédricVillaniapplaudit]] This international dimension is essential and requires us to think of strategies in a multilateral rather than a selfish approach. I recently read in the Financial Times that there was a form of opposition between a scientific requirement of reason that prompts us to think that we will only make it together and a perceived political temptation to favour each one for himself. It is obvious that we must resist this temptation and assume a collective ambition. The second revolutionary dimension of the pandemic is that it is deeply unequal: it affects the poorest and significantly increases inequalities. Globalization, however it may be said, had reduced inequalities over the past 30 years, but they are now growing rapidly. And if we do not adopt a policy that is consistent with the tools we have put in place a few weeks ago by voting on the programming bill on solidarity development and the fight against global inequalities, we will not succeed. Thirdly, it is a geopolitical crisis that illustrates three trends: it strengthens Asia, regardless of China's responsibilities, weakens the Americans and challenges Europeans. If we do not understand that, when the sea withdraws, the balance of power will not be the same as before, if we do not understand that we will have to show valour, then we do not understand anything about the crisis. We must learn three main lessons: first, to make the choice of multilateralism. The temptation is great to say, like Kipling, that the one who travels alone goes further. We are accused of being bad, and it is true that the European Union has not been very effective in organising vaccination policy.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u17	It's good to recognize him.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u18	[[Applause on several benches of the DEM group and a few benches of the LaREM group]] However, the real problem is not there! It is in fact the global shortage of vaccines. If everyone came to each other for himself and decided to be the enemy of everyone, what would be the result? Do you think we would be as good as Israel or other countries that have taken all the risks? I don't believe it. In any case, there would be losers and we would not necessarily be, far from there, among the winners. Secondly, we have a moral duty of solidarity; We must have a human solution, a solution of fairness, sharing, solidarity and not of everyone for themselves. We must carry this message, faithful to Kant rather than Machiavelli. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem and LaREM groups. – Mr. Cédric Villani also applauds]] Finally, we have a duty of valour. No, we're not brave enough! Yes, we're scared! Yes, we abandon ourselves to conspiracy and egocentrism. On the contrary, we must resist, like our friends and partners in Asia, who have not given in to denial and have assumed the consequences of their choices, were painful. Yes, we need solidarity, multilateralism and valour, and that is how we will win this battle!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u19	The president of the Committee on Social Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u20	For more than a year, our country has been facing an unprecedented and global health crisis that involves addressing the challenges that we have never faced, and that requires constant adjustments, often on a day-to-day basis, of the Government's actions. Faced with sometimes unexpected and destabilizing developments, such as the emergence of new variants, Parliament has a major role to play in monitoring the health crisis. The Committee on Social Affairs has largely taken part in its work for several months. I wanted her to devote herself, at the beginning of the year, to the monitoring of the vaccination strategy; That is how our committee, a permanent and fully competent body on the subject, held more than thirty hours of hearings. I would like to take this opportunity to thank all the Commissioners for Social Affairs, as well as the administrative departments, for their mobilisation and for their investment. In all logical terms, we first heard from the Government, beginning in January with your hearing, Minister. The Commission has also sought out the main scientific and institutional actors, including the vaccine strategy guidance board, the Scientific Committee on Vaccines and the Director General of Health, to name but a few. At the same time, the Commission made a first referral to OPECST in December; The first published conclusions have enriched our work, both logistically and economically. Our monitoring and control mission is also manifested in the ability to adapt our work to the evolution of the epidemic, a task that is so difficult. Over the weeks, new problems arise, coming from scientists or sometimes even from the field. In response to this dynamic, the committee carried out a second referral to OPECST in February, the wider scope of which will enable the Office to inform parliamentarians on the new issues that are currently before us, whether they are variations or the link between vaccines and treatments. Beyond these technical and scientific aspects, the Social Affairs Committee takes up the subject in all its dimensions: vaccination in EHPADs, the role of digital in health, the role of platforms in making an appointment for vaccination. As you will have understood, limiting our work to the simple question of health, on the basis of scientific and technical advice alone, cannot suffice. Fully aware of the social and economic impact of the crisis we are experiencing, our committee has mobilized to report through the hearings on the diversity and complexity of the issues raised by the epidemic. Thus, the commission organized round tables on telework, on the mental health of the French or on the mechanisms to combat precariousness and poverty, mentioned at the moment by President Bourlanges. The health crisis affects not only the physical health of the French, but also their professional life, their social life, their children's future, in short, their life plan. It is therefore up to our committee to deal with all these consequences because, yes, it is the Committee on Social Affairs. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Finally, staying tuned to our fellow citizens as realities on the ground is our compass. We are facing an unprecedented crisis; However, more than ever before, we need to anticipate their release. It is a serious time, but we still have an essential hope: vaccination. The French were able to show resilience; They expect national representation to continue our mission both in this assembly and in our constituencies. I want to tell them and tell you this: hold on!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u21	I call on Mrs Sereine Mauborgne, representative of the Committee on National Defence and the Armed Forces.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u22	I thank Françoise Dumas, chairman of the National Defence and Armed Forces Commission, for entrusting me with the task of sitting in his place. As a caregiver, it is an honour for me to contribute to this work. Earlier this week, the Government announced an increased involvement of the armed forces in the fight against the covid -19 epidemic. They will be entrusted with the deployment of some of the future major immunization centres. Moreover, while several military training hospitals – HIA – have already been mobilised to accelerate the national vaccination campaign, others should be mobilised in the coming days, especially in Lyon and Marseilles. It should be remembered, however, that the personnel of the Armed Forces Health Service – the SSA – are at the most just and are primarily at the service of the armed forces and the wounded. The armies therefore take their full part in the fight against the epidemic and did so even before the launch of Operation Resilience, which was launched a year ago. Let us remember that nearly 200 of our compatriots were repatriated from Wuhan to Istres on 31 January 2020 on board an aircraft belonging to the Esterel squadron. In total, Operation Resilience consisted of more than 920 operational missions, including medical transportation, by air or sea, of intubated patients, the deployment by the SSA of modules or military resuscitation cells – inappropriately called field hospitals – or large transfers of medical and freight personnel, either in metropolitan France or overseas. The crisis thus revealed the essential contribution of the armed forces to the resilience of the nation. But it has also highlighted areas of progress in civil-military relations. Our colleagues Joaquim Pueyo and Pierre Venteau, co-rapporteurs of a flash mission on civil-military relations in the light of the crisis of the covid-19, have shown how much, at the local level, the lack of military culture of civil administrations, in particular regional health agencies, has delayed the mobilization of the armies. We have also observed how the health reserve has great fragility and how we could draw more inspiration from the army's practices with regard to reserve personnel. The update of the strategic review, released earlier this year, draws the consequences, highlighting the need for a new strategic function called "resilience and protection". Since the beginning of the crisis, the armies have remained fully engaged in operations on the national territory, in the framework of Sentinel or Harpie missions, but also in the fulfilment of their permanent missions: posture of nuclear deterrence, sky police, action by the State at sea. Not later than last week, a Mirage 2000 intercepted an unidentified helicopter in the Parisian sky. Our armies also continue to train at the highest level, as they did last week with an exercise called High Intensity Preparedness RHEA in the Mediterranean Sea. They are also engaged in external operations, from the Levant to the Sahel, where operations to combat Daesh, Al-Qaeda and their emanations continue. From 21 February 2021 until the summer, the aircraft group formed around the Charles-de-Gaulle aircraft carrier is deployed as part of the Clemenceau mission: it will operate in the Mediterranean Sea, the Indian Ocean and the Arab-Persic Gulf, and will take part in Operation Chambal. In time of covid -19, the realization of these operations represents a real challenge. Today, some 6300 military personnel have been vaccinated to ensure operational continuity and to prevent any risk of interruptions to the most sensitive missions. Vaccination also involves a quarter of the health-care staff in the military health service. If the armies did not have to deplore death among the soldiers with covid-19, I do not forget that four civilian personnel of the Ministry of Armed Forces and two gendarmes died there; My thoughts go to their loved ones. The uniform does not protect against illness and, despite the precautions taken, there are several dozen positive cases among the military, some of them in external operations. To limit the impact of the epidemic on the conduct of operations, periods of isolation are applied upstream and downstream of deployments. They lengthen the length of the family's distance and weigh on morale, especially since departures into external operations can sometimes be more difficult to live, for the back, when the epidemic gets bigger or when schools close. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Protecting the population, protecting the territory, protecting the nation, in metropolis and overseas, on the national territory as well as in external operations, these are the missions of our armies; on your behalf, I would like to pay tribute to their actions and to pay tribute to them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u23	Mrs Danielle Brulebois, representative of the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u24	The Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning is actively involved in the follow-up to the health crisis, and I welcome the unwavering involvement of our President, Laurence Maillart-Méhaignerie. In particular, the crisis has led to an explosion in the consumption of single-use health protections: their production has increased by 200, according to the United Nations. If they are our best allies in the fight against the pandemic, they also generate tons of waste every day and become a scourge for the environment. This is the concern that motivated our engagement in a flash mission on the treatment of used masks; We believe that the health emergency must not lose sight of the environmental emergency. Surgical masks, which have become public objects, produced about 40,000 tons of non-recycled waste in 2020, while medical protections – overblouses, charlottes, etc. – which are waste from infectious risk care activities – DASRI – represent some 200,000 tons of incinerated or buried waste. According to ADEME – Environmental Transition Agency – the incineration of one tonne of this waste releases 880 kilos of CO into the atmosphere. The environmental bill is heavy and requires strong action: landfilling and incineration cannot be accepted as the only solutions. Our hearings have shown that another route is possible, despite the difficulties associated with collection, sorting, infectious risks and the cost of processing. For example, Neutraliz companies in Tours, Plaxtil in Châtellerault, or Cycl-add in Ain, have found solutions to give a second life to masks, by valuing their recycled materials. In Avelin, Cosmolys collects medical waste at infectious risk, which it disinfects and transforms into polypropylene granules. With strong community support, a virtuous ecosystem, both industrial, ecological and social, was created. On the ground there are beautiful initiatives, and many good wills. This is particularly the case in Jura, with Rudologia, a national competence centre dedicated to waste and university training centre, as well as with plastics companies, already very committed to eco-responsibility and the incorporation of recycled materials. For its part, the Plastipolis competitiveness centre is fully supportive of the creation of a specific recycling industry for disposable masks and protective equipment. However, more needs to be done. If we want to move forward, the recycling of this waste must receive increased public support, beyond the ADEME circular economy fund and the recovery plan – which includes a measure to support the financing of equipment to banish DASRI. We need to strengthen incentives and support. Indeed, solutions exist to reduce the quantity of this waste. The first is to promote the use of reusable masks by the general public, as recommended by the High Council for Public Health, with a focus on Category 1 masks with a filtering capacity greater than 90%. A second solution is the washing of surgical masks, proposed by a consortium of researchers and scientists led by the CNRS – the National Centre for Scientific Research –: they have shown that surgical masks remain effective after several 60-degree wash cycles with detergent. However, while washed masks have been certified by AFNOR – Agence française de normalisation – the reuse of single-use medical devices remains prohibited in France. To allow this, a clinical trial should be organized. However, the National Agency for the Safety of Drugs and Health Products – ANSM – has not yet responded to such a request for a research protocol involving the human person. This is a necessary prerequisite if we are to pursue a policy that encourages the reuse of these masks. The status of the surgical mask must change: although used by the general public, it is always governed by the public health code, unlike the masks employed in the company, which are governed by the labour code. If such an evolution were to occur, two uses of the surgical mask would be allowed: one for medical care providers and the other for individual protection for the population. It is also necessary to develop standards, in accordance with the new ANSES benchmark – the National Agency for the Safety of Food, the Environment and the Work – which is the result of an important work: manufacturers could then claim the possibility that their surgical masks will become reusable. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Solutions are therefore emerging for recycling and reuse of used masks. In all cases, the objective is the same: to combat waste-related pollution. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is our duty and responsibility to encourage and develop this new path of the circular and solidarity economy.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u25	Mrs Véronique Louwagie, representative of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u26	Since the beginning of the health crisis, just over a year ago, the National Assembly and its committees have worked, each in its own field, to understand the course of events, monitor the responses of the Government and adopt the necessary laws. The Finance Committee has not been left behind: from the first days of confinement, it has, as a matter of urgency, examined the first amending finance bill for 2020, the first of the four budget collectives adopted between March and November 2020 to allocate the necessary funds to the emergency plan in the face of the health crisis. The Finance Committee also conducted some 20 hearings in 2020 and early 2021 to assess the crisis in its economic dimension and assess the effectiveness of the responses. Issues relating to the banking sector, financial markets or the insurance sector have been closely monitored. Similarly, in early 2021 we conducted a round of hearings to assess the impact of the crisis on local finances. I will concentrate on my work as Special Rapporteur of the Health Mission, which I reported to the Finance Committee on 10 February. I was interested in the contracts concluded by the Ministry of Solidarity and Health with consulting firms between March 2020 and February 2021. I thought, initially, that I would present the results in a budget report – in my opinion, the examination of these contracts was primarily a matter of the mission of informing on the impact, management and consequences in all its dimensions of the coronavirus-covid epidemic -19. However, the decision to put an end to the work of this mission convinced me to present the results of my review as early as February, in order to reaffirm the interest of this parliamentary prerogative. Standing committees remain, and within the Finance Committee, special rapporteurs retain all their prerogatives. From 12 March 2020 to 9 February 2021, the Ministry of Solidarity and Health or the Interministerial Logistics Coordination Cell – CCIL – increased from 28 orders to seven consulting firms, for an estimated amount of EUR 11.35 million.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u27	That's all!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u28	It's not nothing, though!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u29	This resulted in the payment of counselling benefits up to approximately 5000 days/man. Other orders follow and follow, for an amount not yet defined. I would like to make an important point: in addition to the purchases made by the Ministry, other orders were sent to consulting firms by Santé publique France. As Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance for the "Health" mission, I do not have the power to monitor the action of Public Health France under the same conditions as the action of the Directorate-General for Health. If the National Assembly wishes to know all the costs incurred by consulting firms since the beginning of the health crisis, it will be up to the Social Affairs Committee to question Santé publique France – I have already opened myself to some of my fellow members of this committee, including Jean-Pierre Door, here.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u30	Transparency!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u31	The consulting firms were called upon at an accelerated pace from the end of 2020 as part of the preparation and deployment of the vaccination campaign. From March to November, emphasis was placed on advice on information systems, modelling and logistical support for the management and distribution of equipment. Since December, the focus has been on the provision of contract management assistance in logistics, strategic support and information systems. I was surprised by the fact that none of these orders focused on improving the link between the State and local and regional authorities in the context of the management of the health crisis. It is all the more surprising that, since the beginning of the crisis, the record of these relations has not been satisfactory. In itself, the use of consulting firms is not a problem. Other Governments have done so, and I understand that the current Government may have felt the need for it, if it has found that its organization is not optimal on a particular point. On the other hand, the frequency and the amount of the orders create a perplexity: twenty-eight orders in eleven months, this represents an order every two weeks, and more than 1 million euros of consultancy services per month – 250,000 euros per week and almost 50000 euros per working day.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u32	And the minister who doesn't listen!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u33	Of course, it is probably a drop of water compared to the overall amount of the crisis; But this drop of water shows a lack of organization and a loss of know-how. When the Ministry of the Interior has to deal with a major crisis, does it call on seven consulting firms to deal with events? Does the Ministry of Armed Forces order 28 counselling services in the event of a crisis? I don't believe it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u34	And the minister who still doesn't listen!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u35	On the other hand, when the Ministry of Solidarity and Health is facing a major crisis, it feels the need to be supported on all sides by consulting firms. [["Very good! » and applause on the benches of the LR group]] In 2010, the Court of Auditors published a report on the use of funds mobilised to combat the influenza pandemic A( H1N1): at no time did it mention the use of consulting firms. Ten years later, seven firms were asked 28 times in eleven months. The State has lowered the guard and disarmed itself in health matters. This disarmament must be of concern to all of us; We must learn from it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u36	The minister didn't even bother listening!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u37	The Chair of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u38	On Saturday, 21 March 2020, there were about 20 of us in this House gathered to pass the emergency law to deal with the covid -19 epidemic.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u39	Twenty or so isn't much!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u40	We then invent the state of health emergency, after an unprecedented work and a joint committee of more than four hours, marked by an exceptional collective effort to establish a consensus. All of us wanted to give the Government the capacity to act urgently in the face of the health crisis, to protect our fellow citizens, under the close control of the assemblies. We were determined to fight the epidemic with all the strength of Parliament. A year later, we are equally resolved. It should be recalled that Parliament – and it alone – each time gave the Government the means to act, allowing the extension of the state of emergency. This is in no way a blank session: for the past year, we have been exercising strengthened and continuous control over the Government's work – thirteen texts have been reviewed for this purpose, four debates have been held under Article 50-1 of the Constitution, and dozens of hearings have been held by the Law Commission alone. This control is a requirement, which is justified by the restrictions imposed on our citizens. As the epidemic persists and the French are gaining in fatigue, we must ask ourselves whether Parliament's powers should be further strengthened. As you know, I wanted the legal regime of the state of emergency to be the subject of a task of the Law Committee. While waiting for the release of this state of emergency, which I wish next...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u41	We're looking forward to it, too!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u42	...I think we could, from now on, inspire ourselves from this work. We all share the conviction that Parliament must be a key player in the management of the health emergency. As Sacha Houlié and Philippe Gosselin recommend, we could foresee a debate in the Assembly whenever the executive changes its strategy profoundly. In the same spirit, at the last Joint Committee on a state of emergency, we proposed that a debate be held after six weeks of confinement, on the basis of Article 50(1) of the Constitution. We could also involve parliamentarians in the work of the Scientific Council, which we have already opened up to the Standing Committees. I have pleaded, in my personal capacity, for the establishment of an ad hoc parliamentary follow-up committee, which would be involved much more closely in the management of the epidemic. A year later, it is up to us to think of the gradual return to a normal life, despite the virus. A health passport is mentioned at European level, and some countries are already developing it. This could be the way to fully recover our freedoms. I therefore wanted the Committee on Laws to consider the legal conditions for the possible creation of such a passport and its implications for fundamental freedoms. We held a first panel discussion on this subject with Karine Lefeuvre, professor at the École des hautes études en santé publique, member of the National Ethics Advisory Committee, Serge Slama, professor of public law, and Bernard Stirn, honorary section president of the Conseil d'État. The lines of strength that have emerged from this will have to guide our work in due course. First of all, our interlocutors have all stated that such a mechanism is in conformity with our law and that its possible establishment would be the responsibility of the legislator: it could only be decided by law. We will then have to pay particular attention to the principle of equality between citizens because, in the absence of compulsory vaccination, we will have to preserve everyone's freedom of choice. Furthermore, the proportionality of these measures will need to be closely monitored. If it is possible to legislate to introduce different rights depending on the individual, the general interest objective must be clear and to the strict extent necessary. The second line of force concerns the limits to the design of such a device. As a result, immunization coverage is now too low to implement. The people we interviewed referred to a minimum threshold of 20 to 30 million people being vaccinated. Moreover, this type of passport could only be temporary. The opposite, of course, appears totally excluded. Another limitation lies in its scope. It should be strictly circumscribed. There is no question that access to essential services, such as public transport, is discriminatory in any way. We will therefore have to be particularly careful to define the places where access would be open in this context. The round table also raised many practical issues. If you can imagine a person being tested before attending a concert or show, it seems difficult to force him to do the same every time he goes to a café. How would this health passport be presented, would it be accessible to all, what protection for our health data, what control at the entrance of the places concerned? These are all the questions we will have to answer. The Law Commission will continue its work in the coming weeks. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, more than 20 million French are subject to increased restrictions. All of us need perspectives. They will not be established at the price of our freedoms or at the price of our great principles. As I have often said, in times of crisis it is our institutions and fundamental principles that allow us to hold on. We will continue to ensure that.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u43	Mrs Sabine Thillaye, chairman of the Committee on European Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u44	The health crisis has put a severe strain on the European ideal. More than a year ago, the European Union found itself at the outset in difficulty in coordinating the action of the Member States. Given the growing scale of the epidemic and the staggering images coming from Italy, many Member States have taken unilateral measures to close internal borders or ban the export of medical equipment. This temptation of each person for himself is constant when European action is not commensurate with needs. The withdrawal of the European Union's position has been severely judged by the public. However, 69% of Europeans surveyed also want the Union to be more involved in resolving the crisis. Our citizens therefore take a demanding look at the action of the Union because their expectations are high. But this lack of responsiveness at the very beginning of the crisis is not entirely attributable to the European Commission: it owes a great deal to the Member States themselves, which have not given the Union sufficient powers in health matters. It should be borne in mind that the Union has only supporting powers in this area, i.e. it must support and complement the action of the Member States. In assessing the Union's action, it is therefore necessary to bear in mind the narrowness of the scope of this competence. In other areas, the European Union has been able to overcome some of the old taboos that were guiding its action, as evidenced by the activation of the general derogation clause of the European Union's budgetary framework, the relaxation of the competition rules on state aid, and the mobilisation of all the funds available in the European budget. These measures have also been supplemented by new safety nets: the European Investment Bank guarantee fund to relieve businesses or temporary support for the partial unemployment mechanism for workers. But above all, the European Union set up, within an unthinkable period a few months ago, an ambitious joint recovery plan – EUR 750 billion in the form of grants and loans – and strengthened the multi-annual financial framework in a targeted manner. This crisis is further attested to by the fact that Europe is growing stronger in times of crisis, but still with an initial delay which justifies the strict view of public opinion on its effectiveness. On the other hand, it is then able to undertake appropriate joint actions and even adopt reforms that seemed unthinkable before the crisis started. This is what two authors, Elie Cohen and Richard Robert, have recently called the "European waltz in three stages". For the most sceptical, the crises, whether financial, health or even environmental, show that we need Europe. We live in a world in constant change that is constantly shaking our certainties and our ways of life. A nation-state alone, in a globalized world, cannot provide an effective response. That is why the European institutions must stop acting in response to events. In liaison with the States, consideration must be given to ways in which the Union can give concrete content to the new concept of strategic autonomy. We need to learn from this health crisis to improve our resilience. The construction of a Europe of health is under way. In addition to strengthening the mandate of health agencies and the European Commission's cross-border cooperation, I would like to highlight the publication of an industrial pharmaceutical strategy, which provides for the strategic autonomy that we currently lack. We must prepare ourselves today for tomorrow's crises. This reinvention of the Union cannot be undertaken without the close involvement of national parliaments in the reflection. Already in July, the Committee on European Affairs published an information report on the European Union's response to the pandemic. Divided into pairs, we have carefully examined the impact of the pandemic in various areas: agriculture and fisheries, health cooperation and the internal market. We are continuing this work today in two missions, one on respect for the rule of law during the health crisis, and the other on the European Union's coordination of national crisis management measures. One year after the start of the pandemic, we have more hindsight and experience to rigorously assess good practices and limitations. Finally, the conference on the future of Europe must tell us what will become of the European Union in the next ten years, what competences it needs to be given and whether society is still capable of taking risks.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u45	Mr Cédric Villani, President of the Parliamentary Office for the Evaluation of Scientific and Technological Choices, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u46	We haven't seen him in a long time!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u47	Since the December 2020 debate, faithful to the mission entrusted to it by President Ferrand, the Parliamentary Office for the Evaluation of Scientific and Technological Choices has regularly heard, in bicameral and trans-partisan format, the experts and institutions involved in the French strategy to combat covid-19. Our referral, which has been extended by the Committee on Social Affairs, concerns all the scientific and technological tools of the strategy. I will limit my remarks to the most sensitive of them, starting with epidemiological models. Despite remarkable efforts at coordination and improvement, epidemiology has been subjected in recent months, as never before in its century of existence, to the triple scientific, political and media pressure. Some of its predictions, such as the rate of replacement of the original strain by the British variant, have been remarkably accurate. Others, such as the rate of increase in hospitalization in February, were much more approximate. The difficulties are terrible: uncertain impact of changing health measures, delayed effect, mixing of strains, uncertain detection. The analysis submitted to decision-makers is made even more difficult by the indirect health scourges linked to the deprogramming of hospitalizations on the one hand, and the physical and psychological degradation caused by distancing on the other. And yet, we cannot do without epidemiological predictions, in particular to analyse hospital capacities and contamination conditions. Astounding seems inevitable: it is practiced, although with significant strategic variations, by all Western countries. Secondly, in the strategy for a sustainable exit from the crisis, vaccines appear more than ever to be the main pillar. While new treatments are under study and promising, such as monoclonal antibodies in dual therapy, their methods of administration do not allow them to be used on a large scale. It will never be repeated enough: the development and production of vaccines in just a few months, according to a range of innovative methods, is a turn-of-force and probably the best news of this pandemic. Two RNA vaccines – ribonucleic acid – messenger – from the Pfizer-BioNTech and Moderna laboratories and two viral vector vaccines – from AstraZeneca-Oxford and Janssen are now authorised by the European Medicines Agency and are under review for highly anticipated authorisations of RNA CureVac, Viral Vector Sputnik V and Protein Novavax. Sanofi's delay is questioning.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u48	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u49	Millions of injections already made have refined our knowledge of these vaccines. Their protection power is much better than expected in 2020, especially among older people. Their effectiveness in preventing transmission is increasingly plausible. Some contraindications have been detected, especially for AstraZeneca, with some serious cases – of the order of one per million vaccinations on young patients. Not only does the balance between benefits and risks remain very favourable, but technically the problems encountered are solved by the modulation of target audiences. Beyond the complexity and sometimes the great confusion of logistics and registers, vaccination has increased in power and has undergone a pragmatic adaptation to local realities, with the creation of vaccines for example. But it is in communication and contact with citizens that the worst difficulties have arisen.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u50	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u51	The hesitations and zigzags about AstraZeneca, murderers for trust, have made us furious, like so many others. However, after investigations, it turns out that institutions such as ANSM and the High Health Authority – HAS – have played their part in accordance with the rules. If a culprit is to be identified, it may be the lack of readability and the lack of communication on the issues.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u52	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u53	Without blaming anyone, let's note that the vaccine committee of the highly respected Alain Fischer has failed to make a reassuring voice heard above the confusion. Despite these difficulties, France is, in the field of vaccination, in the peloton of the countries of continental Europe. The comparison tool created by the New York Times classed it even right in front of Germany, which seemed so much more advanced in January. France is also one of the countries that has best targeted populations at risk, with the average age of people vaccinated being very high. So is Europe's vaccination rate too slow?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u54	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u55	The answer depends on political values and I will simply set the framework. Three countries are notoriously ahead of Europe: Israel, the United Kingdom and the United States, each with specific strengths. Israel has taken advantage of the great confidence of its people in technology to enter into an unprecedented contract based on massive communication of valuable real-life health data to the laboratory; the United Kingdom benefited from its "national" vaccine, AstraZeneca-Oxford; The United States has invested billions in research and development in the form of privileged partnerships from which Europe could usefully draw. Then, a few European countries – Serbia, Hungary and Slovakia – took some advance by taking the risk of getting Russian and Chinese vaccines; Chile used the same strategy. Then Europe comes. Of course, it immunized less quickly than the United States, but twice as fast as the world average. In fact, the most disadvantaged countries still do not have access to the vaccine. Should the vaccine be given priority to rich countries or should it be distributed fairly throughout the world? It is on the basis of your answer to this political question that you can judge the speed of the European strategy. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM, LR, Dem and SOC groups]] The main limiting factor is still the rate of vaccine production, but already there are pitfalls and vaccine hesitations: delays among caregivers, a base of 20% of the population resolutely hostile to vaccines, a strong fluctuation of image and confidence in the various vaccines, while their protective capacities are objectively much closer than previously thought. In December, ladies and gentlemen, I told you that human factors would be the most delicate part of the vaccination strategy; Here we are. News from the scientific front is remarkable, news from the human front is very delicate. In the epidemics of the future, the humanities will have to be taken even more seriously.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u56	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u57	We come to the speakers on the list. Mr Jean-Jacques Gaultier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u58	Half a day: this is what our debate on the follow-up to the health crisis is going to sum up.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u59	We worked on a commission anyway!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u60	Big damage out there, little debate inside: this could be your slogan – since fashion is slogans. In any case, this is how Parliament is considered: a croupion debate, without a vote, for a croupion Parliament, put before the fait accompli: circulate, there is nothing to see!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u61	Like many times!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u62	We are far from the 56 hearings and 130 hours of debate of the fact-finding mission transformed into a parliamentary committee of inquiry. If the commission of inquiry had, in essence, a limited lifespan, the fact-finding mission could have continued.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u63	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u64	But the La République group on the move put an end to this fact-finding mission, against the views of all the other political groups, from left to right.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u65	Lack of transparency!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u66	Did we, however, have answered all the questions, all the doubts? Obviously, no. In the absence of a parliamentary fact-finding mission that fully plays its role of monitoring the Government, with criminal sanctions and judicial control – unlike the current situation – we are entitled to all-out governmental communication, going so far as to use unhappy advertising slogans. We saw everything, all heard, said everything and the opposite of everything, outside and inside and vice versa, on the masks, on the tests. On vaccines: it was no and then it's yes; On AstraZeneca it was yes, then no, and finally yes, and it may not be over, as the President of the Republic has contradicted his Prime Minister in less than 24 hours. On the certificates, it changes all the time: orders and contracts follow each other. It's both draft and tatillon, tufted and confused. The tide rises, but since we don't stop the sea with our hands, we don't stop the epidemic with infantilizing slogans.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u67	No, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u68	At the bottom, we have two weapons and only two: a defensive weapon, the resuscitation beds, and an offensive weapon, the vaccines. However, both are sorely lacking, hence the mess and the need to manage the shortage. We have neither shield nor sword, not enough "rea" beds and not enough vaccines. All the rest is literature, com, slogan.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u69	What about the general reduction of public policies, the RGPP?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u70	Almost a year ago to the day, on 28 March 2020, you yourself, Minister, set the target of 14,000 resuscitation beds; A year later, not a new perennial bed of resuscitation came in addition to the 5130 existing beds: was this also a simple "com" blow?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u71	That hurts!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u72	We are putting a country at a standstill because the saturated health system is unable to follow, except by deprogramming, undressing Peter to clothe Paul, to the detriment of other patients, especially cancer patients, whose operations must be postponed, which will result in thousands more deaths in the coming months – 6000, 10000, or even 30,000, according to Professor Kahn or Professor Khayat. Let's move on to the vaccines. On December 3, the Prime Minister announced 15 million vaccinations at the end of March. We are at the end of March, and the reality is quite different: we are at 2, 5 million vaccinated, that is less than 5% of French people vaccinated with two doses...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u73	It's more than five times less!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u74	... and 12% of French people who received a dose. That's three times less than the Americans, four times less than the British, and 95% – I insist: 95%! – French people are not vaccinated. This delay costs lives and recedes the moment of restarting social and economic life. You are certainly not solely responsible, Minister; the European Union has its share of responsibility, which has shown a real delay in ignition and a damaging inertia, but let us not complicate things and add the heaviness and slowness: seven categories and nineteen sub-categories of patients eligible for vaccination; 12 co-morbidities, 20 sub-categories, 40 rare diseases – stop! Don't throw any more! [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Minister, your slogan "in with his own; outside with the citizens", we don't understand anything about it anymore. The real anti-covid slogan is simple and clear: inside with rea beds, out with vaccines!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u75	Mr Philippe Bolo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u76	The Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats Group welcomes the initiative of this necessary and useful debate on the follow-up to the health crisis. It is necessary because the health situation is affecting all French people, parasitizing their daily lives, discouraging social ties, obscuring their future – when it does not mourn their families – all this without respite since 2020. Let us therefore focus on the fact that this debate enlightens the French who listen to us. It is useful as confusion often becomes necessary when it comes to the health crisis, a confusion fuelled by the circulation of false information in a conspiracy movement that should be denounced. This confusion also stems from differences of opinion as to how the epidemic is managed. These differences and the contradictions that accompany them are natural and necessary: managing a crisis of such magnitude is complex; it imposes one-day choices which can be called into question the next day by the progress of knowledge or because the health situation requires adaptations. Let us therefore focus on what is to be corrected in the debate, without neglecting what is right. Let us also strive to be constructively critical, to be a force for proposals to enrich the debate and to outline developments beneficial to the general interest, beyond the "we need" and purely partisan divisions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u77	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u78	As the debate is an opportunity to raise many issues, I will focus on three of them: monitoring the circulation of the virus, vaccination and health measures taken in schools. When it comes to monitoring the circulation of the virus, one year after the outbreak begins, we look daily at the evolution of the indicators that make our invisible enemy visible: the count of new cases, the rates of incidence, positivity or reproduction are all figures that feed our hopes or our concerns. Another promising indicator is the monitoring of viral particles in wastewater. These wastewaters reflect the health of populations in urban areas, whose density promotes the circulation of the virus. This is a predictive indicator: this summer, in Île-de-France, it indicated an upsurge in the virus that the other indicators were not yet able to detect. This wastewater monitoring has received significant funding from the Ministry of Research and Innovation, so it is now operational thanks to the Obépine network. My first question is: Will the results collected by this network of Obépines complement the toolbox of indicators used to manage the epidemic? With regard to vaccination, first of all, I would like to highlight the role of the municipalities that run the vaccination centres. In the tumult of critics, their importance is too often forgotten. However, the 6 million injections made to date are to be credited to them. Like many of you, I've visited vaccination centers. In Sgré-en-Anjou Bleu and Angers, I saw the agility and adaptability of mayors and their teams: from nothing, without the experience of logistics necessary for such an exercise, they faced the constraints of vaccine supply and appointment management – it seemed to me important to report it. Immunization monitoring is based on a new information system, Vaccine Covid. The use of the e-vaccination booklet was another option that could boost its deployment, which had been blocked for two years. The vaccination campaign offered an unprecedented opportunity that has not been seized, hence my second question, Minister: why create new tools, when we voted for the deployment of devices that would have been useful to us if we had not neglected their implementation? [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group. – Cédric Villani also applauds]] Third and final subject: measures taken in schools. A comparison with four of our neighbours, Germany, Belgium, Spain and Italy, all of which have implemented containment measures during the first wave, highlights the fact that French schools are those which have remained closed for the least time – eight weeks against thirty in Italy, twenty-four in Germany, fifteen in Spain and eleven in Belgium. This strategy has helped to contain the difficulties of the most fragile students; She preserved the key role of the school and stressed her role as a shock absorber of social inequalities. Minister, given the role of teachers and the recent words of the President of the Republic, how soon can we consider moving their vaccination forward?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u79	Mr Gérard Leseul has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u80	My first thought goes to the families of the victims and to all the caregivers who, for more than a year, hold the hospital system, the EHPADs and the residences, and ensure the daily connection with the elderly. We are back in a particularly worrying health situation, just over a year after the appearance of the covid-19 and three months after the beginning of the year 2021, when the President of the Republic made a "betting", according to the expression of his own entourage and many ministers. "He's going to finish epidemiologist," a minister has fun. "The numbers make him right. One containment would have been the easy solution, the comfort measure," according to another. Another, who participates in the defence council, adds: "If we had listened to all the Cassandres, we would be working with our children on their knees for three weeks." This is what France Inter reported on 10 February 2021, when it was decided not to reconvene the country. The Government cannot say, as we have heard, that the increase in contamination is "sudden". Indeed, on 28 January last, the Prime Minister presented to the leaders of the Assembly's political groups a projection of the possible number of contaminations with the English variant. I am not a Cassandre, minister, but the projections made then by epidemiologists – the real ones! – and the specialists have unfortunately materialized. Therefore, the Government cannot be surprised by the number of cases, since six weeks ago, it presented a projection that already reported an exponential increase in the number of contaminations due to the new variants. We can reasonably imagine that if the Government presented this projection to us, it would give it a minimum of credit. The scientific council also explained things very clearly. In a lighting note written at the end of January, which unfortunately was not released until Thursday, 25 February, the council called for four weeks of early confinement throughout the country. This recurring delay in the publication of the work of the Scientific Council undermines the confidence and the necessary transparency of the information that Cédric Villani has just recalled on behalf of the OPECST. The situation is now more than worrying. In Île-de-France hospital centres are looking for beds to create, temporarily, more places in resuscitation. In my department of Seine-Maritime, the spread of the virus continues. The incidence rate is measured at 341.8 per 100,000 people. In view of this figure, the ARS, the regional health agency, has asked the hospitals in Rouen and Elbeuf to activate phase 3 of their regional plan to mobilize against covid-19, which involves in particular the deprogramming of 30% of non-emergency surgical activity. This situation is a disaster for all those waiting for care and is likely to trigger a new wave of emergencies in a few weeks. I repeat: the departments affected by new health restrictions should be better accompanied by a massive acceleration of vaccinations. All available doses should be used on the basis of a more robust logistics organization. Finally, we feel that vaccination is not in a tense flow. I recall that in December 2020, the Government's objective was to vaccinate 15 million French by spring. Spring was Saturday, and we are still far from the expected figures. The Government must enhance transparency and dialogue, including with representatives of local communities. The task is ungrateful, I know, Minister, and governing under these conditions is difficult. For all these reasons and because the situation is exceptional, the executive must be fully transparent about the information available to it and the Government's action must be monitored. Unfortunately, this control obligation has been circumvented, particularly since the closure of the health management monitoring fact-finding mission. This body, with the powers of a commission of inquiry, had thus far carried out this monitoring mission. On 27 January, it was dissolved on the pretext that the Standing Committees could carry out this follow-up on their own. Almost two months later, what's the record? Five of the eight standing committees have not held any hearings since 27 January – I would point out that the committee of inquiry was conducting an average of two to five hearings a week: one to two on Tuesdays, two to three on Wednesdays and one on Thursday mornings. While the choices made by the executive are not subject to any prior debate, that the different scenarios should be systematically put on the table and that delays in the vaccination strategy are accumulating, how can we explain that Parliament's supervisory role is thus narrowed?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u81	It's the new world!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u82	[[Applause on the SOC benches]] Immunization coverage is still insufficient to expect massive reductions in hospitalizations. We strongly ask for this: the executive must be much more transparent about its choices and present precisely the possible alternatives. The defence counsel's body is isolated, opacifies decision-making and undermines the link of trust with the French. Change your method, set out your strategies and discuss them with national representation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u83	Mrs Agnès Firmin Le Bodo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u84	We have been facing the epidemic of covid -19 for over a year and the situation is still very complex. We are aware that every day the Government must take difficult decisions while being subject to conflicting injunctions. For the past year, much has been done and the necessary decisions have been taken, whether to preserve the economy or to protect the French from the virus. Schools have been closed only a little: we can pride ourselves on having left these learning places open as few countries have. I also pay tribute to the teachers who have deployed a great deal of energy and skills to accompany young people. Of course, everything wasn't perfect, but there's only the supporters of the "we only have to" in order not to understand that the situation is unprecedented. The parliamentarians we are have been able to rise to the challenge. Our extensive work in committee and in session has often enriched the mechanisms proposed by the Government. I also like to believe that the information we bring back from the ground allows the Government to adjust its measures as best it can. Having said that, and in this context of great uncertainty, we are convinced that our citizens must be given as much opportunity as possible. The feeling of fatigue and anxiety is shared by a large number of French people who are, each in their own way, affected by this particular episode. Some have been personally affected by the virus, others have experienced the pain of losing a loved one. Some work in a sector that has been shut down for a year, while others work in the first, second or third line to ensure the continuity of the business. Finally, we all suffer from a social life put in brackets. The impact of the health crisis on the mental health of the French is still difficult to assess, but the elements at our disposal are worrying. Many of our fellow citizens with whom we exchange each week tell us their impression of not seeing the end of the tunnel. We are therefore convinced that we must give opportunities to the French. There are grounds for hope. Advances in science have allowed us to design several reliable and effective vaccines less than a year after the discovery of the virus. It's an incredible scientific feat and a great opportunity to get out of the crisis. Doses must now be injected as quickly as possible, as vaccination is both a marathon and a speed race, in which every week lost can have dramatic consequences. We must therefore accelerate and amplify the vaccination campaign. To do so, all competent health professionals must be able to vaccinate, and they must be able to do so with all vaccines. In parallel with the vaccination campaign, we must put every chance on our side to allow a return to an almost normal life. Some innovations could be very useful if their effectiveness is demonstrated. I am thinking in particular of the air renewal systems and CO measures which could equip restaurants, cinemas, school canteens and even school classes and other enclosed places. I am also thinking of self-tests that could allow students to return to university. We must now have a coherent strategy to encourage the development of such tools. Together with strict health protocols and massive vaccination of the population, they could enable us to strengthen health policy. The Group of the European People's Party is convinced that we must anticipate and draw up a clear and coherent strategy for a social life as soon as possible. For example, it seems impossible to offer students an additional year at a distance. We must therefore open the discussion on the priority vaccination of young people with the Janssen vaccine. Young people need more than anyone else to regain faith in the future and the course of their lives. Ladies and gentlemen, we will come out of this collective ordeal together. This epidemic testifies to our founding values: freedom, equality, fraternity. We will come out together if we continue to rely on all the living forces of the nation, if we stick together. The sky is black, but it will lighten, let us be sure, and the good days will be better. "We must have no regrets for the past, no remorse for the present, and unwavering confidence for the future," wrote Jean Jaurès. Our responsibility is the price of our freedom. France is a great nation which, in its history, has already proved that it knew this prize.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u85	Mr Michel Zumkeller has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u86	This debate on the follow-up to the health crisis is timely, at a time when our fellow citizens do not understand much about it. At his press conference on 18 March, the Prime Minister announced to the French the introduction of a new confinement in certain departments. Less than 24 hours later, however, the President of the Republic indicated that confinement should not be mentioned. Worse, our technocratic machine has started to produce a two-page certificate with no fewer than fifteen derogations. Unfortunately, this ubiquitous situation is just one example of the incredible administrative burden that prevents us from acting quickly to deal with the virus. The welfare state that should be the solution has become the problem. The biggest flaw in government action is the lack of anticipation. Many experts are concerned about this. Thus, according to epidemiologist Arnaud Fontanet, a member of the scientific council, there is no reason why the other departments in which the indicators are deteriorating will not soon experience a health situation similar to that of Île-de-France. The Committee therefore recommends that the same restrictive measures be taken in these departments without delay. We invite you, Minister, to anticipate the evolution of the epidemic in the territories instead of reacting once the resuscitation services are close to saturation. With regard to logistics doctrine, we noted that it has evolved dramatically since the start of the vaccination campaign. The IDU and independent group would like to welcome the mobilization of local elected officials, which sometimes results in the provision of a public building, employees and means to organize the vaccination calendar. These services have resulted in new expenditures. We hope that the State will be able to find the necessary funds to contribute to their financing. As for the vaccination strategy, the suspension of the AstraZeneca vaccine is another example of your delay. In less than 24 hours, the French heard on the one hand the Prime Minister express all his confidence in this vaccine and, on the other, the President of the Republic announce its suspension. We ask you, as my colleague Valérie Six proposed yesterday in questions to the government, to start the second phase of the vaccination strategy. To the extent that we did not get an answer yesterday, I would like to repeat our recommendations. Once the most fragile people are vaccinated, we recommend vaccinating the most exposed people – teachers, students, all those who have continued to operate our country: cashiers, cleaners, law enforcement, in short, all those who cannot telework. Finally, we want to mention the health pass, which we were the first to raise as early as December. Introducing a health pass means allowing life to win against the virus; that is to guarantee the return to social life; It's the possibility of going to the restaurant, to the theatre, to the cinema. How do you envisage the introduction of such a step both at European level and in our country? In conclusion, Minister, our citizens need a clear strategy more than a government that blows the heat and the cold. Our group makes proposals and we hope to work with you.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u87	Mr Paul-André Colombani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u88	The 17th of March was the anniversary date of the first confinement, which marked brutally, for all our fellow citizens, the break with what we called life before. The confinement, initially planned for two weeks, extended for fifty-five days and since then the health crisis has never ceased. The French now live at the pace of successive confinements, curfews and government announcements. They are exhausted by the strategy of stop and go and have reached the limit of acceptance. Some already express a strong exasperation, as during the carnival of Marseilles which gave rise to irresponsible behaviors that we do not want to see multiplied. It is a blackboard that I paint, marked by a feeling of impotence in the face of a virus that is difficult to control despite the fight led by healthcare professionals. Nevertheless, we have some hope, that of vaccination, which already proves its effectiveness. We have no right to error, we must succeed in the vaccination campaign because, at the moment we are talking, the saturation of hospitals in Île-de-France has forced the transfer of some patients; the number of beds available is the same as last year and the risk of saturation also, while the third wave hits us and several departments are being re-defined. Despite this, we have the impression that in a year, nothing has changed in the method. The action you are taking comes up against an overwhelming centralisation, a technocracy that increases the organisation of the struggle and above all the lack of consultation with local actors, which the Libertés et territoires group has constantly pointed out. It also hurts in terms of transparency: the erratic publication of the opinions of the Scientific Council raises the question – the chairman of our group Bertrand Pancher asked you about this – why are these opinions hidden? This is part of an anxiety climate. The President of the Republic seems to decide everything, on his own, without an identifiable perspective or course. I want proof of cacophony a few days ago when the AstraZeneca vaccine was suspended. Nevertheless, there is hope, I repeat: vaccination. There has been a sharp decline in hospitalizations and serious forms of illness among people over the age of 75, and an almost zero rate of contamination in the previously vaccinated population. Some countries such as Denmark foresee a return to normal life through effective vaccination of their population. Unfortunately, if vaccination is a race against time, we have already lost it in part compared to other countries, due to the delay in the start of the vaccination campaign, which followed profound logistical dysfunctions and a disorganization observed by all. We have come at a turning point, which we must negotiate as best we can. Human and logistical means must be built to succeed in the next stages of the vaccination campaign. Minister, you are finally in favour of vaccinations – the word may be wrong. Vaccinodromes, yes, but what for? With vaccines and arms to sting enough? This morning, Philippe Juvin denounced the complexification of vaccination at the centre at the town hall of La Garenne-Colombes. Hospitals came to vaccinate on their free time, paid by social security packages; They are now being asked to seek overtime from hospital managers, as this will necessarily deter a number of them. The participation of all health professionals who wish to do so must be decomplexed to the fullest extent and the possibility must be given to them to organize themselves calmly among themselves in order to carry out this exceptional work; They are ready, they have shown it to us especially in my constituency, between Ajaccio and Porto-Vecchio: everywhere doctors and pensioners have immediately volunteered, but pensioners are being imposed a journey of the fighter to help. This is reflected in a letter I sent to you last week, Mr.Minister, outlining the path of a retired woman, a UAS doctor, Mrs. Catherine Ferracci. She almost gave up because of the fighter's journey; It describes an endless administrative journey. Most retirees in my constituency have given up. Catherine Ferracci is always on the front line when it comes to it. In 1993, she was held hostage in the Neuilly-sur-Seine nursery school; I wanted to pay tribute to him today. All second-year medical students and nursing students must also be allowed to participate. We need everyone and everyone is ready, including local elected officials, as our colleagues have said. We must learn the lessons of the fight against the virus and define a new method based on anticipation, consultation and transparency in order to return to normal life as soon as possible, as promised by the President of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u89	The next speaker is Mr François Ruffin (FI).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u90	"We don't know which side the play is going to fall on," said an Elysée advisor on Thursday in Le Parisien. What would the Head of State choose: a hard containment, a soft containment? Until the last minute, we are told, until the last second, the President hesitated. What would this time be, I always quote, "the bet of Emmanuel Macron"? "For now, it's fifty-fifty," confided his entourage. And this sentence, so, "We don't know which side of the coin is going to fall." But the play is us! It's France. It is 67 million free citizens, who even have freedom for the first word of their motto. Are we going to play football again, or not? Pile or face. Depends on the room, the President's mood, his feeling. Will the florist sell his flowers? Pile or face. University and high school courses? Pile or face. Drink a beer on the terrace? Pile or face. For more than a year, we have been in the hands of the sovereign, suspended from his lips, without taking hold of our destiny, neither here, in this assembly, nor elsewhere, and the expression that comes back in people's mouth is: "We wait to see what sauce we are going to be eaten with. » Finally, after a confinement, a definity, a reconfinition, a reconfinement, a curfew at twenty o'clock and a curfew at eighteen o'clock, here we are with a partially deconfined territorial confinement and a curfew at nineteen o'clock, with a certificate of exit, but finally without, and finally if. It's cluttering, rafistolage, without any strategy, without any calendar! You do not reopen bars and restaurants, museums and cine, gyms and gyms, but above all, you do not reopen hope, you do not reopen the horizon. This morning, Ali told me, "They feel like they're groping with a white cane. We'd have to buy them a blind dog. In Le Parisien, again, a government advisor, we are told, decrypts: we had to give wages to the exhausted caregivers. Of course! It's time to visit a hospital, hide behind the white coats. The curfew is for them you do. It is in their name, The rest of the time, on the other hand, you're deafing, your ears are well clogged. Of what? Beds? The Prime Minister dares to say – and this is what we recognize – that caregivers do not ask to increase the number of beds in the hospital. Well, they ask, and they even wonder that we are the only country in the world to close beds in the midst of a pandemic. "Come on! Are we replying to them, what would be the use of beds without caregivers or staff? "But precisely," shouted the rehosts, "we demand it, and we demand sixty more interns in our specialty!" Sixty for the whole country, it's not huge! If we had directed them in September, they would be at our side today in the services and we would be less asphyxiated. But how many did you grant? You know it: zero. For vaccines, it's almost worse: how many doses will be produced in France in March? Zero. April and May? Zero. How many all spring and all summer? Zero. Zero sovereignty! We will have to wait for the doses that do not come or those that Pfizer or Moderna want to deliver to us, without even asking the French for the lifting of patents at the WTO, the World Trade Organisation. So, since the dike no longer holds and becomes a sieve, what do you do? Close the freedom tap. Here's your adjustment variable, and always on behalf of the caregivers. But it doesn't take anymore! Laura, a covid physician, wrote to us: "I don't want to serve as bail for them anymore. Let's not get used to living like this. Our role is to treat the sick, not to judge the living. Our role is to save lives, not dictate life. Florian, an emergency worker too: "We don't want beaches banned, we want caregivers. We do not want a health dictatorship, we want a return to democratic social protection. Fadi, Reactor: "The social body has never asked for such deprivations of liberty. The Government uses the saturation of hospitals to justify liberticid and unfounded measures. » Like Laura, Florian and Fadi, like these caregivers, I no longer accept your speech. Like millions of French people who sneak into the streets and find themselves hiding, I will no longer obey. I don't recognize your authority anymore. In the name of life, you become dead. You carry sadness and depression. We're not going to wait any longer. We're not going to wait for your permission. We won't wait any longer to live and to laugh, to dance and to sing, even masked.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u91	[[Smile]] What about Marseilles?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u92	[[Sébastien Jumel applauds]] Yes, masked! In an alexandrine with caesure to the hemistiche, you have been psalmodating since Monday: "Dadans with mine, out as a citizen. We promise you that this spring we will be outside as citizens!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u93	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u94	A year has passed, and a little more. One year that we are struggling with this virus that shakes humanity all around the planet. One year that we are prevented from touching each other, from kissing each other,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u95	What a shame!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u96	...to find us, to project us. One year that we live in slow motion in a form of retreat. One year that we see our loved ones leaving around us. A major test in the history of the human race. For no one, it's not time to brag. We are all reminded of this virtue, which is so essential and so little used as humility. On the other hand, we have a duty to debate and compare views, because many political choices are at work. Crisis times, at least as much as ordinary times – if we have had a lot of them in our recent history – call for choices that are part of worldviews. However, the choices that are unfolding before our eyes – or rather, which often rain on us – often remain in the neoliberal order. For practical reasons, the public power has been profoundly weakened. For ideological reasons, the Government believes in the market, the expansion of the market is in some way its great dream, and that is what it calls freedom. This direction continues to place us in a situation of increased fragility. This is the case in the management of the vaccine where, in reality, we are always subject to manufacturers through purchase contracts whose terms are kept secret. While the victory over the pandemic required a global production effort, a pooling of patents and a renunciation of the profits on the pandemic, we remained in this capitalist mould, instead of working for the public power to take over in the name of the general interest. Yes, we could have, here and elsewhere, produced more doses for our common benefit, and faster, but this choice was not made. We have even heard in recent days that we now have enough doses – I hope that's not what you've come to explain! We know what is at stake: not to create a precedent and to remain in this organization of the world where a few large groups are waging war and are more powerful than States, and where we are reduced to passing or not passing the dishes. This situation calls for a change in the order of things. The crisis has confirmed, if necessary, that it is an urgent necessity, and we could have seized it for that. In the meantime, it's going on. We must salute all the women and men mobilized daily in many parts of our country, but what about the situation of the hospitals, who were already in a deep crisis before the occurrence of the virus? If you had to give up ballast on partial catch-up measures during the Segur, our hospital capacity has not been strengthened in a year. You are announcing figures that are theoretical constructions but, in reality, you are adopting logics of communicating vases based mainly, at the stage where we are, on deprogramming. Adequate measures have not been taken to train nurses in resuscitation and to open long-term beds. In addition, some hospitals have continued to close hospital beds and the decline in recruitment advertisements appears to be slow to make its impact felt. It would have required less presidentialization and less vertical, more transparent management. It would have been necessary to seek, not obedience, but membership, which you have been slow to do. To the extent possible, efforts should have been made to better preserve the essentials, even if reduced and adapted, and to build with the living forces the springs that are indispensable to us. Our society continues to bend under inequality and a major economic and social crisis is pointing its noses, which particularly – but not exclusively – affects young people, for whom appropriate measures are expected. We call for genuine national and local monitoring of the recovery plan, so that it can really allow the ecological and social bifurcation that we need. Our society is fighting, but it suffers. We know that the situation is of great complexity and seriousness, and that every step must be reviewed and adapted. We call for strengthening and strengthening our prevention strategy with community testing and immunization, and for strengthening our public tools, including digital ones, to better cope. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR, SOC and FI groups]] If he has found himself or is in this House people to tell you that you have done almost everything right, for our part, without a shop spirit, we do not think so. You made political choices. It is for us an imperative duty and an eminent responsibility, quite simply, to discuss them and to tell you that it is time to change course, to rise to the challenge we are facing, to allow ourselves to be questioned by the situation and to enter into a new era for humanity.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u97	Mr Julien Borowczyk has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u98	For more than a year, we have been living a war, a total war, a world war, and if helmets have given way to masks, if confinements have replaced trenches, if stethoscopes have replaced bayonets, then what is not changing is the tragic outcome of this martial situation, given the countless victims around the world. In every war and all the time, the victims were citizens, the citizens we represent here in the National Assembly, to whom we must apply our duty of control over government decisions. In March 2020, like our predecessors in 1914, we were considering a relatively short battle. Thus the lexical field of sacred union was a time used. This union, federating a common indignation against the aggressor and in the same patriotic faith, as Raymond Poincaré then said, we were able to observe it during the first confinement, when our assembly continued to beat the heart of the Republic with the information mission of the Conference of Presidents. After a first progress report, this mission acquired the prerogatives of a commission of inquiry, which I had the honour of chairing for almost six months. The power of the Assembly was respected, and even welcomed by the rapporteur, in that there were no restraints, obstacles or limitations during the seventy-six hearings held with two prime ministers, many ministers, representatives of administrations, patient unions and local elected officials. Of course, we have never moved to the front, as Georges Clemenceau wanted in his time, but we nevertheless auditioned all the caregivers who wanted it. If I referred to the name of this illustrious parliamentarian, President of the Council and doctor, it was intended, because it was with the same aim of defending parliamentary prerogatives that the control of the Government and public policies was transferred to all the standing committees at the end of the commission of inquiry. These committees now allow all MPs, every day and every hour, to exercise their power of control over the decisions of the executive branch. This constitutional approach promotes the idea that Pastor expressed by saying: "Have the cult of the critical mind." Moreover, in this new form of contemporary war, we face, like Pastor in his laboratory, an impalpable, unpredictable and invisible enemy. The places of confrontation are multiple and scattered even in the privacy of our homes. This viral lability frees us from borders and every human settlement requires us to be modest every day and imposes a certain humility on us in the face of the criticisms that we might make of successive decisions. It is in this, moreover, that it seems to me inappropriate to carry out the slide, which we sometimes see, from the critical mind to the simple criticism. Jean de La Bruyère said in this regard that the pleasure of criticism deprives us of the pleasure of being deeply touched by beautiful things. These beautiful things are our collective successes for over a year, the tremendous resilience of our country, our institutions and our compatriots. This is the relentless fight of our caregivers against the only enemy we had to eradicate: the virus. There is no human enemy here, no physical leader, no corrupt executive representative, but only men and women committed to defending what they consider to be the best for our country, thus offering France a humane response to an inhumane situation. These collective successes include immunization policy. Our Assembly takes part on a daily basis, in a desire for constructive criticism, in the adaptation of the coherence of decision-making through the indispensable territorial plasticity of which we are the guarantors as Members. The results are: 90% of vaccination rates in EHPAD, 50% of people over 75 years of age who have received a dose, priority and rapid protection of our most fragile citizens, the reduction of mortality in institutions. We can pride ourselves on this French strategy, which will accelerate as vaccines become more available, allowing us to envisage a massive injection campaign everywhere, all the time and for all. I would also like the Minister to give us details of the timetable for the next steps in the deployment of vaccination in France. These collective successes are also illustrated by the recent choice to avoid strict containment, while our European neighbours impose a more restrictive stop-and-go. This third way to French is a clear translation of our balanced will of conscience based on science for the benefit of our fellow citizens. This perpetual peak line, increasingly sharpened between abrupt health, societal and economic slopes, requires a constant and rapid reassessment. The resulting decisions are, moreover, regularly disseminated to Parliament, in a spirit of transparency which is essential to national cohesion. However, if it is always risky to predict the unforeseeable, it can at least be considered. Could you, minister, explain to us the adjustment variables imagined for the coming weeks with regard to measures to prevent the spread of the virus? Because neither the MP's scarf nor the ministerial maroquin are accompanied by a crystal ball, let us limit ourselves to humility and national cohesion, because that is what our fellow citizens need. The enemy feeds on divergence and misinformation, even when it is viral. The solution will come from our unity. It is through our common work that life will triumph.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u99	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u100	What to say that has not already been said, written, heard about this health crisis? If I ask this question, it is because the subject of this debate was imposed on all by the circumstances, a little more than a year ago; I am well aware that it creates fatigue, fatigue and exasperation, but it also covers the tragedy experienced by so many of our fellow citizens, so many bereaved families. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, LR and Dem groups]] To date, 92908 Frenchmen have died of the covid -19: I obviously have, at this moment, a thought for them and for their loved ones. Behind the ginned figures we have been living with for several months, which allow us to follow the course of the epidemic and to make appropriate decisions, there are personal and family stories; There are parents, grandparents, friends, co-workers, loved ones we won't see again. I am thinking of those who are struggling today in the resuscitation services: the sick, but also the caregivers who accompany them in this ordeal, in this fight, and whose mobilization, since the beginning of the epidemic, has been quite exceptional. We owe them so much! Last summer, the Ségur de la santé translated this recognition into unprecedented acts and financial commitments. This recognition, these commitments, expected by the whole nation, could not wait any longer. The first line is not an imaginary or media concept, it is the line that confronts patients who lack oxygen, in respiratory distress, lives that hold only one wire. Today, we are at a turning point in our fight against the epidemic: the next few weeks are going to be very difficult, but for the next few weeks, hope, still vague, is now allowed. For this hope to take a concrete form, it has been necessary for the research to keep all its promises and fulfil the prowess of developing in just a few months a vaccine for which we now have to ensure the best possible deployment. We are debating this regularly in this House. Believe that we are following the progress of the vaccination campaign hour by hour: in the short term, it will change the situation, and I assure you that it will change it permanently. Ladies and gentlemen, what lessons can we learn from what we've been through, what we're still living? We have learned, which is the least of the things, you will tell me; But when such an inconceivable event occurs, a virus about which theoretical and practical knowledge are also lacking, this very novelty constitutes a considerable handicap, which only experience and time can overcome. We have learned to better detect the disease, to offer systematic screening devices throughout the territory: France has shown itself capable of this technical and logistical prowess. From now on, whether in cities or in the countryside, our fellow citizens can be tested free of charge, without a prescription, in order to protect themselves and their loved ones. We've learned how to better treat the sick, how to better take care of them. Today, thanks to the mobilization of the actors of city medicine, patients are hospitalized at home, even if oxygen therapy is necessary; In the hospital, the number of beds for resuscitation and critical care is much higher than before the crisis and can still be adapted, according to the evolution of the epidemic, to the needs of each territory. We know how to organize health transfers by air, by train, by boat, in order to distribute the burden among all the resuscitation services in France. These are some of the lessons we have learned from this health crisis, even before we came out of it. The epidemic is not a health hazard or even a hospital: by its magnitude, it constitutes a total social fact. It questions our institutions, the status of the scientific word and the most fundamental values of our nation, that is, for the Government, in recent weeks, in recent months, the health of our fellow citizens and the solidarity that protects everyone. There are decisions that it costs to make; There are also issues that have no price. I am Minister of Solidarity and Health: my portfolio does not by chance bring together these two inextricably linked aspects of social protection. Few institutions are home to the daily lives of the French, their joys, their sorrows, their hopes, like social security, this pillar of the republican pact: this is evidenced by the fact that its values bring about almost everyone's agreement, despite the deep divisions of our society. When everything seems fragile, uncertain, social protection is a solid benchmark, in recent months we have been reminded of it. In creating a replacement income to cope with an unprecedented slowdown in activity, how can we not see proof of its major role in accompaniment to economic life? The epidemic will also have proved, if necessary, that universality is an indispensable principle and requirement. It is enough to convince ourselves to direct one's gaze towards countries that have made other choices, countries that are rich, but where access to care is not obvious to everyone, so much so. Our social protection is therefore much more than a large insurance machine: it is a true conception of life, based on solidarity, because in the country of human rights, one does not ask a sick person if he has the means to treat himself before opening the doors of a hospital or laboratory. Health for all, solidarity for all, is our common demand: the epidemic has only strengthened it. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Although this requirement is shared, I can still measure the fatigue, fatigue and sometimes discouragement of our fellow citizens. I know how important everyone's efforts and sacrifices are. They're brave, the French! Nevertheless, if, for a year now, I have been able to forge an irremovable conviction, it is the one that must not be opposed to health and collective life measures. To protect our most vulnerable citizens is not to show charity, it is not to choose, it is not to favour one to the detriment of the other: it is to honour our social pact and its promises. In or out, being a citizen means considering that all lives have the same value and that every life counts; Each of our individual behaviours contributes to the collective solution before us. After facing two waves, we know how to defeat the third. We will therefore defeat it and, thanks to the courage of the French, we will quickly defeat it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u101	We come to the questions: I remind you that they must not exceed two minutes, as well as the answers. There is no right of reply. We begin with the questions of the Republican Group. Mr Jean-Pierre Door has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u102	Minister, we find ourselves on a subject that you know I'm passionate about: the epidemic risks. One year after the first confinement, we are at the same point. Had the strategies developed by the Government therefore been effective? One day it will be necessary to examine their merits, in the light of the results: orders and checks, administrative cracks that have caused chaos, significant delays in the delivery of vaccines, stop-and-go for that of AstraZeneca. Therefore, I would like to ask you a few questions. First of all, it is clear that Europe has sinned through the late purchase of vaccines and the negotiation of contracts; To date, everyone has recognised this, including within the European Commission. Why not move towards increasing our stocks by means of the Russian vaccine, of which we are talking a lot and which has some effectiveness? Questions should also be asked about the deprogramming of surgical procedures, which are stirring up the Gustave-Roussy centre and Professor Axel Kahn because of the risks they pose to patients, especially when their pathology is cancerous; as well as the decree of 1 March, which denies state graduates the right of prescription granted to midwives and pharmacists. In rural areas, these health professionals play an even more important role as doctors are rare. There is therefore, unfortunately, an inconsistency in the vaccination strategy. Finally, I vaccinate every week, Minister, and I am asked about this vaccination according to age groups. Over the last few months, I have been calling for mass vaccination here on several occasions. Saucissoning must be stopped: at any age, the French must be able to get vaccinated.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u103	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u104	This is certainly the only solution. We did it at the time of the H1N1 virus: it was not a great vaccine success, alas, but it was a large-scale vaccination.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u105	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u106	You yourself pointed out, Mr. Door: you are a parliamentarian and a doctor. Can we decently propose to a whole population a health product that has not been authorised by any of the authorized agencies, since the Russians simply delayed filing the application for authorisation? I feel like I've already had this discussion,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u107	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u108	...not with you, but with some of your colleagues, and about supposedly miraculous remedies. How many times, in a year, have I been asked why I did not allow this or that medication, since it worked! A few months later, however, I did not regret having had strong kidneys. If the EMEA, the European Medicines Agency, authorises the placing on the market of the Russian vaccine, I will be very pleased that we have this additional resource. At this point,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u109	It takes two months for the training!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u110	... this late request, I repeat, has not yet been granted. I would also like to point out that the Russians, at the time I am talking to you, have vaccinated 4% of their population, compared with 11% in France: I am therefore not sure that the doses of this vaccine would flow to our territory, even if it was already authorised. I mean, why not? As far as nurses are concerned, like you, I hope that they can prescribe the AstraZeneca vaccine in order to administer it at home to isolated elderly people. The high health authority refused it for the first time. I seized it again; She has to give her answer in the next few days. For having adopted these provisions in a legislative framework, you know that the HAS is an independent authority. As a minister, as a doctor, I would like nurses to receive this right of limitation: you see that my answer goes far. But I have to wait for the experts' opinion. For a year I've been dealing with this crisis, I've been avoiding wearing their costumes; I try to listen to them when they are reasoned and reasonable, sometimes to motivate them, to encourage them to be open-minded, but in no case to force them. So far, it would seem that we have done well to stick to this attitude. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Finally, it is to vaccination by age group that we owe much lower than expected mortality, since we have given priority to the older people: otherwise, there would be two or three times more deaths every day than it actually does. Perhaps we would have even crossed the threshold of 100,000 dead. Priority continues to be given to protecting the most fragile; It'll be time to expand the vaccination afterwards.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u111	Mrs Laurence Trastour-Isnart has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u112	For a year now, our citizens have been subject to restrictions on freedoms. To justify them, you highlighted the lack of knowledge about this virus; Today, how can we explain the return to the "containment" box? How can we hear, like last Thursday, about a race against the clock, while the pandemic has been going on for a year? The French feel that a government of amateurs is making small-week measures. The travel certificate issued last week, for example, is by itself a clear testimony. Where are the 12,000 resuscitation beds promised at the beginning of the crisis? The argument of the lack of beds in resuscitation can no longer be invoked. What about the recruitment of nursing staff, their increase in competence in order to strengthen the teams? Those who have been mobilizing for a year are exhausted, although they continue to do remarkable work, which I would like to welcome here. Why did you deprogram surgical procedures in private structures that eventually didn't accommodate covid-19 patients? Why a slow vaccination campaign, when it should be a priority? Why, in the EHPADs, have our elders been isolated for months? Today, it is young people, depressed, worried about their future, who feel sacrificed. How can some businesses be described as "non-essential"? What a lack of consideration! Entrepreneurs are desperate: they ask to be able to reopen, welcome customers, work, and finally. On 16 March 2020, the President of the Republic declared: "We are at war. A year later, we are still waiting for our warlord... Citizens want to regain their freedom; They no longer tolerate being infantilized. When will you present them with a concrete timetable for a return to a normal life, so that we can all project ourselves into the future?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u113	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u114	Just because I don't infantilise the French, you've never seen me as a member of parliament – consult the archives – you'll never see me as a minister, question them by such a chain of all-round, stoning formulas that don't serve democratic debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u115	That's right, it's not on the level!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u116	Not to infantilize the French is to be able to tell them what they already know: that an emerging virus, a variant of which neither you nor I had heard about before January, an epidemic, are natural phenomena against which we must fight by natural means such as vaccination or social distancing, but also by our courage. Madame la méputée, the French are tired of it: tired of confinement, of the virus, of having sick people around them,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u117	They're tired of us not trusting them!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u118	...make sure that caregivers, in a hospital setting, suffer a considerable amount of stress. You are free to speak, as I am of mine, but I would also gladly believe that our fellow citizens are tired of hearing this kind of questioning. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] I am here before you so that we can discuss together the solutions that you have to propose. If your proposal, in the face of the third wave we face, is to reopen the shops and multiply the resuscitation beds to better fill them, without worrying about the victims, we will definitely not agree.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u119	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u120	Mrs Geraldine Bannier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u121	Like my colleague Philippe Bolo here, I welcome the forthcoming vaccination of teachers, who are particularly exposed simply because of the flow of important people into schools.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u122	All right! It's about time.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u123	I would like to ask you, Minister, about the vaccination of fragile people and in particular, following the release of the communiqué of the Collège national des gynecologists et obstetriciens français – CNGOF – and of the research group on infections during pregnancy – GRIG – on that of pregnant women, particularly vulnerable. Doctors recommend using messenger RNA vaccines from Pfizer and Moderna laboratories at the end of the first trimester of pregnancy. The High Health Authority agreed in early March that the administration of covid-19 vaccines in pregnant women is not contraindicated. Pregnant women over 35 years of age, those with other co-morbidities such as obesity or diabetes, as well as pregnant women who may be in contact with people infected by their work, are particularly targeted. The perspective of covid-19 is particularly distressing for these women, especially since the conditions of childbirth are difficult in the current health context. Minister, what follow-up will you give to these recommendations? It will probably be important during the expansion phase of the public to vaccinate, apart from age criteria, to prioritise particularly exposed individuals, such as workers in closed environments or "contact"; I am thinking, in particular, of prison guards, but also of bus drivers, traders and workers, whose essential role must be recognized again during this difficult period. Minister, given that we understand that there is a need for patience in the delivery of vaccines, will it be possible, and at what time, to include pregnant women and workers on the list of priority audiences?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u124	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u125	Thank you, Member, for your question. What the High Health Authority says is that vaccination is not contraindicated in pregnant women and that RNA vaccine should be given priority. In fact, messenger RNA is considered to degrade very quickly, it does not present a proven risk to the foetus. Similarly, a lactating woman could be vaccinated. The High Health Authority proposes to give priority to the vaccination of pregnant women over 35 years of age, and/or co-morbidity carriers. Being pregnant does not in itself constitute a risk factor for serious forms of pregnancy. Pregnant or non-pregnant women, frontline workers or non-pregnant workers, the priority today is to avoid people going into resuscitation. However, the vast majority of people who go to resuscitation, are hospitalized or are undergoing health transfer are elderly people, although young people with co-morbidities, such as very high obesity, can still be found there. Age is the main determinant. The objective of the current phase of vaccination is to prevent people from developing serious forms of the disease, simply to prevent them from dying. That is what we are pursuing. Then, as the President of the Republic has said, when the vaccination coverage of fragile audiences is greater, towards the end of April, the question will arise of the prioritization of certain professions; For example, the President mentioned teachers because schools are open in France. This is how vaccination should be considered, as recommended by all French, European and global scientific authorities. It seems to me that this is a good way to proceed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u126	Mr Alain David has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u127	On 28 January last, the liaison committee meeting at the initiative of the Prime Minister communicated to parliamentarians projections of the evolution of contaminations according to the impact of the variants. These projections suggested that, in the absence of additional measures and regardless of the effect of the vaccine, an explosion of the pandemic could be envisaged. We had imagined, like others, that the Government would decide what its spokesman then described as a very tight containment, which it defined as a containment with rapid and effective effects to further curb the circulation of the virus. In the end, it was not. The President made the decision to allow us a chance not to confine ourselves, in a form of bet that can be said today, in view of the decisions taken, that it has been lost. Projections amounted to 70 or 80 per cent; the explosion of contaminations mid-March was not only predictable, it was planned. Since these projections were subsequently ignored and ignored, the president of the Socialist Group once again called for them at the 17 March meeting with the Prime Minister, asking for the impact of vaccination to be included. Finally, on 18 March, the Prime Minister sent him a new screening until 24 May, which would allow up to 140,000 new contaminations per day to be considered without confinement. This projection still does not include the impact of vaccination. Could you tell us, minister, why the January 28 forecasts were not better taken into account, and what the consequences of that decision were? Could you also tell us how to view the new projections, since it was not the choice of containment but rather of a third route whose impact on the pandemic is poorly measured?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u128	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u129	I was present at the end of January when the Prime Minister consulted with the chairmen of the parliamentary groups. It's possible that I'm losing my memory, fatigue helping. However, I am quite convinced – and this can be verified in the archives – that the Socialist Group has not called for tight containment. I can tell you, I was there. It seems to me that at the time, not a single socialist parliamentarian called for harsh and tight containment. We can always go back to the game and go back to the story...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u130	He's the government spokesman!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u131	Mr. Congressman, that's a fact. You said you were in favour of containment, but in reality, at the time, the question was asked you and you were not. I come to the second point of my answer. At the time, the Scientific Council performed case evolution simulations that were reviewed weekly. However, we observed every week in January that the beginning of the exponential phase of the epidemic was delayed by ten days. Every week, we won ten days. After a while, by winning ten days each time, we thought that we were not at the foot of the wall and that there was no need to decide on a containment. On the other hand, we have put in place important measures, including tight curfews and management measures where necessary, and we remain ready to reconsider at every moment. Other countries have made other choices. There has been a lot of talk about Germany – Members of the LR Group in particular talked a lot about it during the first year of crisis management, but I think they are no longer there. Germany wanted to crush the virus by closing everything and confining, so as not to see the circulation of variants and viruses increase. Absolutely everything was closed on 13 December, especially schools and shops, for a period of three months – almost twice the duration of the first French confinement. Then the Germans reopened and, ten days later, they found that the circulation of the virus was starting to increase again because of the effect of the variant. Today, they're closing. We must be humble collectively, with our certainty and uncertainty, and move forward by always having, at heart and body, the will to protect the French in all senses of the term "protection": protection of health, mental health, economic health and social health. Decisions are made when they become absolutely indispensable. It had become essential a few days ago to take strong action in some areas. We will take the necessary steps whenever they become necessary and not in advance, Mr.Member, because if we anticipate too much, we decide too early, we confide too much and we do not protect better.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u132	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u133	Mrs Agnès Firmin Le Bodo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u134	I have three questions, minister. Covid-19 has been a real accelerator of the transformation of our ways of working. My first question concerns the coordination between the public and the private sector, which has proved extraordinary and has yet to accelerate. Deprogramming operations and screening procedures in hospitals is important. How, therefore, can the coordination between the public and the private, necessary to avoid dramatic situations for some people with chronic diseases, be further strengthened in the coming days and weeks? My second question concerns the treatment, about which I believe I have heard that the Roche laboratories had made an important discovery. Do you have any plans for treatment, which could be another way to get out of the tunnel and give hope to our fellow citizens? My third question concerns vaccination, our only and only post-crisis passport, which must be greatly accelerated.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u135	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u136	I welcome the announcement you have just made to my colleague Jean-Pierre Door regarding your willingness to extend the possibility of prescribing the vaccine to nurses; They will indeed be able to go home to do so, which responds to a strong demand from our fellow citizens. I wonder about the possibility, for the entire city circuit, of vaccinating with all the vaccines. Distribution wholesalers are now equipped with refrigerators to store the Moderna and Pfizer vaccines. As a pharmacist, I haven't been vaccinated yet because I haven't received the doses I'm waiting for. I will receive two vials, with which I will vaccinate Friday and Saturday, and then I will have nothing until April 10. It's the limit of the AstraZeneca vaccine: you manage the shortage, and it's not easy. But when can we vaccinate with Pfizer and Moderna vaccines? [[Ms. Nicole Dubré-Chirat applauds]] Finally, I have a question about caregivers, who are relatively low-vaccinated. You wrote a letter of encouragement to them, minister. Their vaccination is also an important issue. Do you have any feedback on the acceptance of vaccination by staff following your mail?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u137	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u138	Madam Member of Parliament, you asked four questions! Being unsure of being able to respond to the four, I will provide you with quick answers. Coordination between the public and the private sector, first of all, is excellent. I took stock this morning. The lucrative private sector now supports 22% of patients with covid-19 hospitalized in critical care in our country, compared to 19% in the first wave. As a result, the level of private ownership has increased. Deprogramming is also planned everywhere but you are right, they must be done in good intelligence between public and private, to preserve cancer and heavy interventions. Everyone's in coal! Regarding your second question, know that France has purchased monoclonal antibody treatments, in quantities: Eli Lilly's and Roche's – the treatment with Regeneron, which you mentioned. The scientific arguments are here: Phase 3 studies show a 70% reduction in the risk of serious cases. More than a hundred French have already benefited from these treatments since their reception a few days ago. Monoclonal antibodies are granted temporary authorisation to use – ATU – from a cohort in good and due form. More than 100 hospitals are mobilized, along with city medicine, to be able to prescribe these treatments in early stages to patients aged 70 years and older, carrying co-morbidities, in order to avoid serious forms of the disease. Let's make sure it works. On the issue of vaccination, MP, I will give you an answer from Gascon: the more doses I have, the better I am! Today we are talking about vaccine logistics but in reality there are no stocks, no reserves. The use of Pfizer vaccine doses reaches 90%. A slight delay was recorded in vaccination with the AstraZeneca vaccine due to what happened last week, but yesterday 70000 injections were made in one day with this vaccine, out of a total of 280000 – a figure that will increase still today. The number of vaccinees is increasing! The more doses I have, the more I will give to pharmacists, doctors, nurses, physiotherapists, midwives and vaccination centres, the more the population will be protected. It is wrong to say that the limiting factor is logistics. I know that's not what you said, honourable Member, but I say that to those who are calling into question logistics or bureaucracy. The only limiting factor for vaccination is the number of doses delivered to us today. Deliveries will increase and we will need everyone because we will have to vaccinate quickly and strongly – we know how to do it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u139	Mrs Agnes Chill has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u140	Measures to support the economy in the 16 departments affected by the new containment will cost, according to Bercy, €7.2 billion per month. This colossal sum is lost money because it is only used to keep under infusion businesses and services condemned to death programmed by government restrictions. Minister, the Government could have done two blows with one stone by investing its capital in French companies and actors who have developed tools and technologies to combat the virus. It would have contributed greatly to a profitable investment for our country, while forging a formidable instrument of health sovereignty.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u141	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u142	If your services have not sent you lists of these actors, I can help you establish them. Proneem has developed a virucid spray for all types of tissues. The bioMérieux company has recently obtained approval in the USA for a diagnosis for respiratory infection. As soon as the virus appeared, in cooperation with BioMérieux, the mariners of Marseilles looked for reagents capable of detecting viral concentrations and managed to stop the spread of the virus in eighty EHPAD Marseilles and Moselle. I could quote many other companies, from Dassault Systèmes to small local companies. At much lower costs than those of reconfining, investment in these actors could have had tremendous benefits for France's employment, research and sovereignty, while sparing our fellow citizens who are on the brink of wear and tear. So, Minister, how and how much will the Government invest in making these French actors, whose excellence honours us, a force of consequent strike in the fight against the epidemic and for the revival of our country? In addition, can your services provide parliamentarians with a complete mapping of these actors?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u143	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u144	I'll relay the last part of your question to Bercy. I don't know if the department has a map. However, we must not wage war without very active companies and industries. The reconversion of enterprises took place quite naturally and quite quickly. Thus, the general public masks were produced massively by companies in the textile sector, which you mention, but also by other sectors: the mask that I wear was made by Michelin, which is not the core of the business. I am not talking about the seamstresses, the artisans who have mobilized, of Mrs Lemoine in the Eure who has transformed her cotton-tip industry to make swabs allowing to carry out PCR tests... Of course, we need industry to be involved. It is also in the country's economic interest that the industry is able to reorganise itself in the face of growing global demand and with a very strong objective, that of regaining sovereignty over medical devices, medicines, protective materials... France is fortunate to be both an innovative and productive country; Beyond its own needs, it can therefore produce for export, which does not harm the economy either. In this sector, the State encourages and accompanies. He also launched calls for projects, made by Bercy, in the area of health innovation. It provides financial support to small enterprises, the ETIs, but to large groups that would need to be accompanied for the reorganization of their sectors. The large Sanofi group has often been mocked; However, it has transformed two manufacturing plants in a few months to produce vaccines on behalf of other laboratories. It is also this collective industrial adventure that I will remember from this crisis when it is behind us.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u145	Mr Bertrand Pancher has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u146	My question concerns the development of the pandemic in the territories of the Pacific, especially Wallis and Futuna, to which our colleague Sylvain Brial is particularly vigilant. Until the last few days, with very strict measures, the territory was spared from the virus. This is no longer the case; Today, it's an explosion. In response, the Government, whose responsiveness we welcome, has deployed significant resources. On behalf of Sylvain Brial, I express the thanks of the Wallisians and Futunians to the seventy-two volunteers who responded present but also to all the health workers, who themselves were largely affected by this virus. Minister, we ask you to provide us with a report on the situation on the spot. The territory had been freed from the virus for a year. Can you tell us how the protocol, adopted locally in consensus, has sinned? It is urgent to explain the unforeseen development of the covid to cut short the designation of scapegoats and adapt the rules in force. As some media keep proclaiming it, it seems that the virus has arrived in Nouméa from Wallis, but where has it arrived in Wallis, and why has it not been detected? This question must be answered in order to raise any suspicion. The vaccination campaign was launched promptly. Can you give us an update on his progress? Since the virus has spread through the educational community, sometimes through the consolidation of populations due to the tsunami warning, can you tell us whether a specific vaccination strategy has been adopted? Lastly, on social networks, an unqualified campaign was being developed that suggested that the Government was using the virus for political purposes. What do you intend to do to cut short on these manoeuvres and not allow a mistrust towards the metropolis to develop?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u147	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u148	There are currently 310 cases of covid diagnosed in Wallis and 8 cases in Futuna, for a total of 318 cases. There is a strong epidemic potential since it is essentially the British variant. Fifteen patients are hospitalized for covid, five for resuscitation, three for intubated and ventilated coma. Hospital care capacity is extremely limited in the territory and a hospital cluster has led to the contamination of 45 Health Agency staff, including 13 doctors, which has not made things easier. We reacted extremely quickly. First of all, we sent a large volume of medical equipment and seventy-four health professionals in immediate reinforcement. We then launched the largest vaccination campaign proportionally to the population, since we sent 18,000 doses of Moderna vaccine. Yesterday, 1,300 people had already been vaccinated. So this vaccination campaign is going to go fast. Management measures were decided at an early stage: widespread containment throughout the territory since 9 March, extended until 6 April, as well as intensive screening. Of course, we pay great attention to all the people who arrive there. The seventy-four health professionals sent are subject to a strict health protocol: the completion of a PCR test has enabled three positive cases to be identified, which has led to the isolation of these people. The reinforcements for the hospital are subjected daily to antigenic tests and twice by PCR test in addition. I conclude by indicating a first death in Wallis on Saturday, March 20; It was an octagenary that had been transferred from Futuna.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u149	Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u150	To begin with, Minister, what we are doing here is not in my view a debate and, without disrespect, I think you probably have better things to do than to lend yourself to this meaningless set of questions and answers. This is not worthy of the situation we are facing, and colleagues have no doubt understood it since they are not coming, nor are they the President of the House. Everyone will be able to draw their own conclusions, but frankly, that is not satisfactory.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u151	We're here!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u152	You will agree that there is a problem, ladies and gentlemen: this is not a serious debate. I'm still going to ask my question... In December, the Prime Minister set himself the target of immunizing 15 million people; We're only eight. On 4 January last, the Minister of Education announced that he wanted teachers to be vaccinated "by March at the latest" but yesterday, the President of the Republic only planned for mid-April. You open mega-vaccination centres, but in my department, in forty cities, only twenty have vaccination centres. I live in a city, Bagnolet, where there are none, despite the announcements made by the prefects in January. The situation in schools is such that the animation centres are closed and parents have to keep the children. Are there any plans for replacement income? Are you going to expand the range of vaccines – we've already asked you the question – by using vaccines other than those you're currently using? Why do you insist on maintaining a situation in which we do not participate in the lifting of patents, particularly in the recent debates in the World Trade Organisation – WTO – so that we can avoid widening the very strong inequality between rich and poor countries in the allocation of vaccines? As you will understand, I used my question to draw your attention to what seems to me to be the substance of the problem: the situation is not satisfactory either on the substance or on the form – on the latter point, I am referring to the parliamentary debate that we have.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u153	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u154	I would remind you, Mr President, that I am not setting the rules and that I am therefore merely responding to Parliament's convocation. I do indeed spend three hours here this afternoon, just after the National Defence and Security Council, responding to Members' inquiries. I note that, as I speak to you, no Member of the main opposition group is present in the Chamber, whereas, in most of the speeches in the general debate, there was a regret that Parliament was not consulted either. I answer every summons. Without disrespect in Parliament, and everyone knows that parliamentarians have many missions, you are twelve to be present.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u155	But this is not a real debate!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u156	It is not for me to judge, let alone criticize; I am at the disposal of Parliament and will come every time I am summoned. On the centres, I wanted to be close: that people don't have to do two hours of bus for a vaccine. In all, 1500 vaccination centres are open, call them as you like, "vaccines", "megacentres"..., I am interested in actions rather than words. Of course, we can't have a vaccination centre per commune, it wouldn't make sense, and rather than managing all this from the ministry I wanted to have the departmental units bringing together the elected representatives – the parliamentarians are invited – the prefect and the representatives of the ARS, who have defined a map specific to each department distributing the different vaccination centres. Others will open, as many doses will be delivered throughout April and May. You may therefore have the opportunity to plead within the departmental unit for the opening of other centres. I apologize for not knowing the situation of your territory: I navigate all over the country, but I do not know all the map of the centres! We keep close to each other, but also ensure that efficiency is maintained, because it is costly in terms of human resources: doctors, nurses, elected officials and community employees are needed to organize this vaccination.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u157	The form of this debate has been laid down by the Conference of Presidents and speakers are scheduled in advance, as opposed to amendment debates. The physical presence in the Chamber therefore does not necessarily reflect a lack of interest on the part of our colleagues, who can follow the debate without being present here, where they could not in any case intervene because of the form of our work.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u158	It wasn't a criticism of colleagues!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u159	I just wanted to make it clear. Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u160	It is good to defend Parliament, Mr President, you are right, it is never sufficiently defended. Perhaps the inoperative nature of this debate is linked to the fact that a Defence Council was held a few minutes ago and that we do not know what was said about it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u161	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u162	In addition, the Assembly is meeting today to talk about the health crisis when the decisions were announced by the President of the Republic two days ago... I want to draw your attention to the important subject of resuscitation services. The Court of Auditors, which is not known to be on the sidelines of public services, sounded the alarm in its report by stressing "a rate of equipment in resuscitation which is deteriorating" and a model " marked by strong territorial inequalities". It states that, if this phenomenon was not born during the present quinquennium, there has also been no correction. With seven beds per 100,000 inhabitants, France is underfunded. Yet, nothing has been committed to reverse logic. Why not have listened to the demand of doctors, who are calling for a simplification of the provision of critical care by integrating the beds of continuous monitoring units into the resuscitation bed park? Resuscitation services are poorly equipped, both in terms of equipment and personnel. However, by 2021, you have only increased by two additional positions the specialty of intensive medicine-resuscitation, which trains full-time resuscitators. Why not increase this level of recruitment to 150 posts per year, as the profession demands? Resuscitation is difficult to recruit and we may find ourselves in an aggravated shortage of resuscitators within a few years. Why not move forward on the recognition of the profession of resuscitation nurse, as health workers demand to relieve services? This situation is due to the accounting logic that has taken over the hospital world for too long. Why does the Government not take advantage of the next Social Security Financing Act to remove resuscitation services from the logic imposed by activity pricing – T2A? The Court of Auditors and the doctors ask for this. Are you going to hear the proposals of the resuscitating doctors, which I relay in favour of this question?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u163	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u164	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u165	In 2015 – I was no longer a member of parliament – I made a report on hospital funding and was particularly interested in funding resuscitation services. A resuscitation service is open upon authorization, they say to a hospital: "You must have fifteen open resuscitation beds. From memory, 85% of operating costs are fixed costs, related to the presence of staff, which must be where the beds are occupied or not, the equipment and nature of the care performed. However, resuscitation care is paid for the activity, so if you have fifteen open beds, you have fixed costs for fifteen beds, even if you only have five patients in it. That's why they say that a resuscitation service loses money in the hospital. It's always got me straightened out and I have no problem with what you're saying – I'd even find it hard not to agree,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u166	We have to do it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u167	... since I wrote in my report in 2015 that it was necessary to remove funding from the resuscitation of activity pricing, like other cares elsewhere. Developments have taken place in the financing of resuscitation since 2015, perhaps we have to ask ourselves again but not now, if you agree, because we are in the midst of a health crisis and that RSAs are fully mobilized every day and every night to organize vaccination, to mount resuscitation beds, to help staff... Similarly, I see a large number of resuscitators and resuscitation nurses throughout France and I can tell you that they do not count their hours. You are right to say that work is to be done; I have committed myself to it in the context of Ségur and outside Ségur, and I have told 40,000 nurses with whom I have been able to talk in video conferencing and before whom I have made a commitment to change the professions. This will not be done in a snap of fingers – even though last summer we managed to release almost 9 billion euros in wage increases in five weeks – but I will do everything I can to move the lines as quickly as possible. As you know, I am passionate about our health care system – we have this in common although we do not share the same ideas, Mr Jumel! I am therefore committed to acting for the resuscitation services.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u168	Mr Jean-François Eliaou has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u169	For more than a year, our country has been facing a serious health crisis, which has led to an unprecedented mobilisation of our institutions. Bills introducing and extending the state of health emergency follow, the last of which was in February. Parliament's oversight of the Government's actions on crisis management was quickly established and the standing committees of both chambers, as well as the Parliamentary Office for the Evaluation of Science and Technology Options, OPECST, are working on the evaluation of public policies and making proposals. Recently, new localized restrictions have been decided for a defined time. The protection, detection and prevention strategy remains the same, but it is reinforced by the vaccination campaign, which I am not going back to. However, it is high time to consider the long-term maintenance of travel control measures and the ability to work, to meet, in short, to live, even with the virus. The European Union has announced the creation, by June – that is, tomorrow – of a green passport allowing European citizens immunised or tested negative to travel within and outside its borders. We know that this document could use a QR code containing non-identifiable information and presenting the "covid status" of its holder. In France, we have already ruled out the path of a vaccination passport because this document would concern only a small number of people at the moment and would involve a risk of disclosure of confidential information. On the other hand, the idea of a temporary health pass guaranteeing respect for medical confidentiality seems more realistic and is increasingly needed in French opinion. It is currently being tested in some countries. Clearly, the creation of this health pass would involve a change of strategy since it would be a question of moving from collective measures to individual forms of authorisation. The main aim would be to prevent massive non-compliance with health regulations in the name of individual freedoms. Minister, what is the status of the health pass? What would be the modalities?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u170	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u171	The question of the health pass actually covers two aspects. The first concerns the vaccination passport and the conditions required by European countries to enter their territory. At European Union level, coordination now exists between states: in due course, a QR code and an electronic vaccination certificate will open up borders, and some countries may require that only vaccinated persons be allowed to enter their territory. On this subject, coordination between the European States is indispensable rather than decisions taken unilaterally, without consultation. The second aspect of the question concerns the conditions that will be required tomorrow to go to an institution receiving from the public. Will it be necessary for this to be vaccinated? That is the question you are asking, Mr Eliaou, in referring to the use of individual forms of constraints, which involve important ethical, scientific, legal, technical and digital issues. The decision is not mine and I do not wish to close any doors, but it seems to me that even before this debate is resolved, the vaccination coverage of the population will be satisfactory and that we will probably be out of the third epidemic wave and able to reopen various places receiving from the public. I believe in collective action. In France, we have a passion for equality. As last year in May, in the coming months, we will gradually reopen public places, as part of a strategy of post-viral crisis resilience and in decreasing order of danger with regard to viral contamination. I may, however, be mistaken, something that some people will not fail to point out to me when the time comes by pointing out that I have once again dejudged myself, which I will readily admit then – I never find it difficult to recognize when I am wrong. You ask me a question and I answer you frankly, Mr. Member. I do not express the Government's opinion here. Various technical, scientific, legal and medical work is under way. We'll see what's coming out of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u172	Mrs. Patricia Mirallès has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u173	On 17 February, the motion for a resolution to recognise and deal with the long-term complications of the covid-19, which I was presenting with my colleague Julien Borowczyk, was adopted unanimously here. Thank you once again, colleagues. This text has made it possible to materialize the recognition of this disease and to highlight all the difficulties that patients face. It has also helped to focus on researchers, key players on which the hopes of people with long covid are largely based. For many months, initiatives have flourished throughout France in hospitals and research centres. Many experts are dedicated to researching this long covid that we continue to ignore, whether it is its causes or its cure. If their efforts are not to be in vain, it is essential to give them the means to fulfil their mission, but we must also coordinate all their efforts at the national level. These distinct initiatives germinate a solution for patients with long covid. It is up to us, Minister, to give them the framework, the tools and the impetus that will enable them to find this solution for good. How do we coordinate research efforts and allow researchers to share their work, work paths and discoveries? How can they be helped to achieve their goal? Would you, minister, be prepared to work on a platform for the referral and management of chronic covid-19 patients?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u174	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u175	Mrs Mirallès, first of all, I want to thank you for your exemplary commitment to the cause of long covid. This subject is complex and, believe me, it has been holding me to heart since the first day.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u176	Yes, that's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u177	Long covid occurs when symptoms persist four weeks after the onset of the disease. These are often disorders of smell and taste, persistent fatigue, headache and joint pain. The physical causes of these symptoms are not always known, but they exist and cause pain to French and French people. They have the consequences of not returning to work and a difficult daily life. They are the cause of pain and stress, sometimes causing psychological problems. We must take care of every Frenchman, whether he suffers from the covid, whether he suffers from it and keeps symptoms, or whether he suffers from other pathologies. That's why I wanted all the scientific and health institutes to develop theoretical and applied research programs related to clinicians and that specialized teams were set up in the major hospital centres, themselves in connection with the city teams, i.e. doctors, physiotherapists, psychologists and nurses. This will help identify and explain the symptoms of long covid and help patients recover from the disease in a multidisciplinary way. Each of us knows a person who suffers from persistent symptoms after the infection. We all want to help people with long covid. As Minister of Solidarity and Health, I have the opportunity to empower caregivers to help these patients and to develop research capacity in this area. After the third wave of covid-19 and the vaccination campaign, when we leave the pandemic, it is not excluded that we observe an increase in the number of those French who, not content with having suffered from covid-19, will retain some symptoms. We must therefore move forward in this area. I know your commitment, MP, and you can count on mine.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u178	Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u179	Mr Nicolas Meizonnet, a non-attached Member, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u180	Finally a debate, or a semblance of debate, on the follow-up to the health crisis in the National Assembly! In a normal democracy, the follow-up to the health crisis should be the subject of regular exchanges given the social, economic and psychological liberticides that your restrictions impose on the French. Today, the majority devotes only two small hours of debate to this major issue. Frankly, it's a masquerade! You have preferred to exclude Parliament from all your decision-making, on the one hand by abusing the state of emergency health which grants you exorbitant powers and disclaims your numerous fiascos and lies,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u181	Oh!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u182	[[Exclaims on a few benches of the LaREM group]] ... on the other hand, by stopping the parliamentary fact-finding mission on the management of the crisis of the Covid-19. You have even preferred to consult thirty-five citizens drawn by lot – we don't know how – rather than Members mandated by our fellow citizens. Why not delete Parliament while you are there? This authoritarian practice is also reflected in the arbitrary decisions taken in the greatest opacity by the triumvirat composed of the President of the Republic, the Defence Council and the Scientific Council. It may be important to consult these two bodies, but they do not have to replace national representation. As you lock yourself in your ivory tower, how am I surprised at a two-page bureaucratic movement certificate containing fifteen derogations? Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, we all want to get out of the health crisis and resume normal life, regain our freedoms and revive our economy. For this, a collective effort is needed. When will you agree to listen to the opposition's proposals? When will you disenfranchise democracy? When will you return his role to Parliament?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u183	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u184	As far as I'm concerned, I've been here for two hours forty, Mr. Member, when you arrived a quarter of an hour ago.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u185	I was following the session from my office!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u186	Your lessons in democracy, you will allow me to leave them to you! At least we will have seen that you were there and that the National Rally was worthyly represented... If the chairman of your parliamentary group, Mrs Le Pen, had been present, I would have thanked her for the proposals she made. To fight against the third wave and the rising tide of patients in Parisian resuscitation services, she claims that it is enough to reopen the small shops. Pushing populism to such a paroxysm, with so much cynicism, is irresponsible and unreasonable. It is above all to take the French for what they are not, i.e. fools. The French know that the health situation requires courageous decisions. When one aspires to govern a country, it is important to show them that one is able to show courage. Forgive me for speaking to you like this, honourable Member, but I give you my opinion as a citizen, a former Member of Parliament and a minister of the majority: I consider that your party is not brave and that it has not been brave for a year. You have not supported any of the texts aimed at protecting the French...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u187	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u188	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] ... by establishing a state of health emergency and exiting the state of health emergency. You have not even voted in favour of economic support measures or even support measures for traders. And yet, your president is teaching the whole world! Make proposals, show that you want to save lives and then you can give us lessons in democracy!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u189	The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u190	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u191	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u192	The next item is the debate on the report of the Committee of Inquiry on the evaluation of public environmental health policies. The Conference of Presidents decided to organize this debate in two parts: as a first step, we will hear the speakers of the groups and then the Government; We will then proceed to a sequence of questions and answers. Mrs Sandrine Josso, rapporteur of the committee of inquiry on the evaluation of public environmental health policies, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u193	The global health crisis will have highlighted our many gaps in environmental health research and policy coherence, as well as the lack of local initiatives. However, these gaps are an opportunity to rethink and redefine what environmental health is and give it a priority. The surroundings around us are a framework in which every human action leaves a mark and has consequences. The crisis of covid-19, for example, highlights the link between animal health and human health. This commission, by investigating how public authorities deal with environmental and health issues, thus met a clearly identified need; That's why I wanted it to be created and followed up. Indeed, environmental health questions the intimate relationship between human beings, the environment and nature. In this sense, it concerns everyone and is a real societal concern, in an artificial world that, by moving away from nature, gradually slides towards nihilism. More prosaically, environmental concern, linked to the increasing effects of pathogens on human health, has been growing since the 1970s; It has triggered many health scandals such as asbestos, chlordecone and so many others. The number of zoonoses, human diseases from animals, has increased fourfold since the 1980s. In fact, the share of chronic diseases associated with environmental causes is increasing in our country. According to CNAM – National Health Insurance Fund – by 2023, diabetes is expected to increase by 12%, cancer by 7% and chronic respiratory diseases by 6%. However, France lags behind in terms of health expenditure related to prevention, since it ranks 18th in the world in this regard; for an OECD country, that's pretty little. Unlike the curative approach, which I am aware must not be abandoned, the preventive approach and the search for causes can be seen as a kind of investment beneficial to our health insurance system. From my work on public environmental health policies, I have deduced a bitter reflection: the national environmental health plan has neither normative scope nor specific budgetary mission, and it has no control over the real. Moreover, the proliferation of overlapping plans on related issues does not facilitate the coherence of public action. Examples include the National Environmental Health Plan, the National Nutrition Health Programme, the Obesity Plan, the National Endocrine Disruptors Strategy and the 10-Year Cancer Control Strategy; This array of plans devitalizes public action. At the territorial level, the same phenomenon prevails. The political impulses given to environmental health issues are variable and depend mainly on the personal involvement of elected officials. Take the example of the fourth national nutrition health program and the obesity plan. They remain focused on the behaviour of people without treating the environmental factors of the disease, and fail to specify that the industrial diet contains pollutants, obesogenic endocrine disruptors, diabetics and other additives limiting, for example, the feeling of satiety. As the Court of Auditors points out in a 2018 report, more vigorous measures could be envisaged, such as the adoption of maximum sugar, salt and fat levels in processed foods or the limitation of advertising to children for the most obesogenic foods. On the other hand, I deeply believe that local initiatives remain the most appropriate to address the concrete and growing concerns of the population about the deterioration of their health in relation to the impact of human activity on the environment. The Committee of Inquiry also allowed the stakeholders interviewed to express their views on the existing national arrangements, and we have noted that most of them denounce a lack of coordination that serves the environmental health strategy. The Commission's main conclusion is that we need a clear strategy, setting out specific objectives and around which all stakeholders should organize themselves. To ensure the health of all – humans as well as animals and plants – it is necessary to focus on data analysis and processing at the local level, in order to collect and trace all this information at the national level. Local actors need to be more involved in the conduct of public environmental health policies, following a co-constructive approach that I think should be developed. Many agents in local and regional authorities show a real willingness to make progress in this regard, as they know that environmental health issues will ultimately be of major importance in the management of their territory. The involvement of those responsible for managing the institutions and the professionals who serve them is essential. As such, I believe that our regional economic, social and environmental councils should address priority environmental health issues affecting their respective regions. They are suitable vectors for teaching, improving knowledge and mobilising the actors involved. The size of the region makes it able to initiate actions to better take account of environmental health. The twenty-one formal proposals put forward by the Committee of Inquiry echo the "one health" approach adopted by the WHO – World Health Organization –: the report presents the idea of a comprehensive health by emphasizing the interdependence of the health of all human beings, animals and plants. The training of health professionals is a powerful but under-exploited lever. They are, however, essential for the proper management of patients in situations of overweight or obesity and those with cancer, diabetes or respiratory disease. I denounce the very marked gap between the voluntarism of the public authorities, particularly at the local level, and the lack of concrete changes in the curricula. Environmental health training should be massed by decompartmentalizing specialties, so as not to reflect on or act in silo. At the same time, the staff of environmental authorities must also be trained on the health risks associated with certain exposures. I think it would be wise to improve the training of public officials to develop environmental health skills, as these will be useful for the management and regulation of health and environmental problems. Finally, it is essential to step up the consideration of environmental health issues in the company – in the opinion of those interviewed and a majority of citizens, this issue is relatively new. As elected representatives of the nation, we must all mobilize to develop academic and academic training so that it integrates environmental and environmental health considerations into their common core. Many sectors of the economy, such as construction, would be interested in the development of specialized training in this field; The dissemination of knowledge could significantly contribute to the growth of interest in these issues. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group]] Many of us carry this message on a daily basis, and I am confident that our mobilization will bear fruit.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u194	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u195	Many diseases, some of which are among the most serious, result from our living environment, our environment, our exposure to risk factors to which we are more or less sensitive. Many diseases could therefore be eliminated. There is still a need to understand and clearly identify cause-and-effect relationships. One thing is for sure, we must act. We must act on the causes, on our lifestyles, on production and on consumption, and we must give strength to powerful public preventive policies that must have a structural dimension and not be content with advisory messages. These issues raise policy issues in many areas. As the report of the commission of inquiry suggests, it must therefore be made an obsession with public policies. We cannot disinterest ourselves in the consequences of our lifestyles, the choices we make or do not make. The period we are living in has reminded us of the importance of the highest priority of health. We must draw all the consequences, even beyond the fight against the pandemic. But to meet this challenge, we need public action with a strong citizen dimension, capable of mobilizing public tools for research, expertise, analysis, but also – I insist – mapping and cadastre that can prove useful. However, the finding is severe. Without the resources available in public institutions that work for environmental health, what can guarantee genuine political commitment? What can guarantee the manifestation in life of true political will? Do we do what is necessary or do we decide to continue to weaken these institutions? What about the downsizing at the Agence Santé publique France, which reduces the capacity to conduct prospective research? What about the resources of the Regional Directorates of Environment, Planning and Housing? Let us not forget the many institutions which, like the National Agency for Food, Environment and Labour Safety, ANSES, work in this field. What about the resources of the research institutes? We have to go beyond that. Do we act for the development of rail, for the movement of people as well as for the transport of goods, or do we decide to rely on the market? Are we deciding to dismantle EDF or are we trying to empower ourselves in the field of energy production? Do we decide to take measures to the height for the climate or do we pretend? Neoliberalism is a poison for environmental health: capitalism is not a problem. To act seriously, we must tackle it. One way to do this is not to leave the expertise to industry or consulting firms. That is why I am calling for the creation of public industrial incubators at the forefront of technological advances to be the driving force behind the transformation of production tools. It is in concert that we must act for environmental health and for health at work – too often blind point of diagnosis and analysis. It is my experience that I call for resolute action in these two areas, making a determined effort to always better elucidate the structural causes of diseases and not attribute them to fatality. I am talking about a territory, the Gulf of Fos-sur-Mer, where proven air pollution has consequences for the health of the inhabitants. This territory struggles to change things, demands transparency, studies and actions. We want to learn more about the atmospheric environment and its evolution, which determines it and its influence on health: we demand public environmental and health studies to which citizens must be fully associated. We want to be better supported and accompanied. We want public research to capture, correlate and study these local data. The aim here is to be at the forefront of research topics that are still too marginal, particularly those dealing with ultrafine particles or cocktail effects. I have proposed that the Gulf of Fos-sur-Mer be declared a pilot site in the fight against atmospheric pollution, because it is an emblematic place where environmental and health issues are closely intertwined. Densely populated, it is one of the most industrialized territories in Europe – refining, petrochemicals, steelmaking. It is also marked by the presence of a large seaport and heavy road traffic. It is the scene of mobilizations, experiments and initiatives from which we have to learn lessons. The aim would be to make this territory a place of excellence in the fight against atmospheric pollution. To move forward, we should decide to establish pilot environmental health sites to advance knowledge and share it. They would be equipped with special means in the context of a democratic approach involving the various actors. I am sure that we would benefit from carrying the iron concretely through this in several parts of the country and on various issues. Finally, I would like to commend the work done for this report by Elizabeth Toutut-Picard and Sandrine Josso, and their proposals concerning, inter alia, paediatric cancers, endocrine disruptors, carcinogenic, mutagenic and reproductive toxic substances – CMR. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups. – Mrs. Élisabeth Toutut-Picard also applauds]] Let us not leave it to the incantations, let us give ourselves the means to act faster and stronger.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u196	I call Mr Thomas Gassilloud (Agir ens).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u197	Taking this opportunity, I would like to tell you, Mr. Secretary of State for Children and Families, that I have a very good memory of your visit to my constituency. I must also admit that so far I have had little interest in public environmental health policies, our subject of the day. However, in preparing this intervention, I realized how important environmental health is to our generation and to future generations. It is difficult to talk about this subject without linking it to the global health crisis that we are currently experiencing and which, I hope, will have made us really aware of the relationship between health and our environment. The question that I would like to ask you, Mr Secretary of State, concerns zoonoses, diseases that are transmitted from vertebrate animals to man, and vice versa, like covid-19. This environment is the air we breathe, the water we drink, the food we eat. All these vital elements for our survival can sometimes become – often because of our influence – harmful resources for health. Our debate must therefore be based on the proposals of the survey report on the evaluation of public environmental health policies, which must be our new objectives in this area. In passing, I would like to welcome the work done by the President and the rapporteur, and to thank the Dem Group for proposing this debate on the agenda. We will certainly not solve the problems of environmental health today, but this debate represents a good step forward and reflects the growing interest and expectations of our citizens in this issue of everyday life. According to WHO, about 15% of French mortality is linked to environmental causes in the broad sense: air, water or soil pollution or exposure to hazardous chemicals. Public environmental health policies must provide comprehensive solutions, particularly in the area of pollution control. Recall that 36% of lung cancer deaths worldwide are related to exposure to fine particles, present during peaks of pollution that regularly affect several regions of France. The draft law on combating climate change and strengthening resilience to its effects, which will be discussed next week, must also participate in this fight, in particular by establishing low-emission mobility zones – ZFE-m – in order to reduce CO and fine particulate emissions in large cities. Consideration of this text must show us that it is possible to fight for both climate and environmental health. Let us return to the crisis of covid-19, which makes us collectively aware of the importance of the link between biodiversity and pandemic, and which obliges us to observe our influence on biodiversity. A recent study of the intergovernmental science-policy platform on biodiversity and ecosystem services – IPBES – points out that pandemics will appear more often in the future, spread faster, cause more damage to the global economy and kill more people than covid-19. In the face of these growing threats, we need to change our global approach. There are few proposals for the topic, while the loss of biodiversity is the source of many diseases. [[MM. Yannick Haury and Frédéric Reiss applaud]] Chronic diseases are also linked to environmental causes: food, endocrine disruptors, air pollution and many other factors. Yes, environmental health is a major topic. It must encourage us to take a more comprehensive approach in our public policies, whether at national or local level. It should be noted that at the local level, access to drinking water and wastewater treatment may have contributed to the increase in life expectancy at least as much as medical progress during the twentieth century. So, in terms of environmental health, let us have the concern to define the environment broadly, without limiting ourselves to the natural environment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u198	The next speaker is Mr Stéphane Viry (LR).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u199	As early as 1999, WHO stated that "the environment is the key to better health". This evening, we have the opportunity to debate the report of the committee of inquiry on the evaluation of public environmental health policies. First of all, I would like to welcome the work of this committee, in particular that of its rapporteur. All those who participated in the work of this commission have come to the conclusion that France is not sufficiently armed in terms of public environmental health policies. Building on this political consensus, our country must now work towards effective, clear and ambitious responses and solutions. Let us not forget, ladies and gentlemen, that the environment can be a source of human mortality. A degraded living environment inevitably increases health risks. So how can we act to create or renew public environmental health policies? I believe it is necessary to work on two main areas: prevention and anticipation. Prevention, mentioned in the report of the Committee of Inquiry, must prevent the emergence of hazards, risks of accidents and diseases. In the report, proposal 4 aims to produce a national strategy for the prevention of obesity, and proposal 5 aims to place the prevention of paediatric cancer at the heart of the next strategy for the fight against cancer. These two examples demonstrate the importance of prevention in public policies. Anticipation of environmental risks and their potential health effects is equally necessary. In this respect, the Committee of Inquiry is looking at training in particular. Proposals 1 and 2 relate to the national research programme. Proposal No 18 seeks to strengthen the training of doctors and other health professionals, particularly in the area of understanding and management of chronic diseases. In just a century, the causes of death in the world have changed. In the face of the development of chronic diseases, researchers are particularly concerned with the environment. In my view, training is the best way to anticipate risks, as it will allow stakeholders to identify the causes of the problems. These findings, which lead to an improvement in our environmental health protection system, prompt me to ask you a number of questions, Secretary of State. Do you think it necessary to carry out a real public policy on environmental health, knowing that the committee of inquiry considered France to be failing in this respect? Do you think that means should be linked with objectives set out in a comprehensive strategy on environmental health? For my part, I believe it is essential to invite local and regional authorities to work on environmental health. Do you consider it appropriate to give them competence in this field? Are you contemplating, in parallel with the work you would like to undertake, the creation of an environmental health office with sufficient resources to direct and develop environmental health policies? For my part, it seems to me essential to have a national pilotage. Research is fundamental to the subject before us. With regard to funding for research and prevention, what could be the Government's commitment to the 2022 finance bill? I imagine that, in view of the issues at stake, the means necessary to improve environmental health and, therefore, to beautify the health of our fellow citizens will be included. Since training is necessary to anticipate problems, do you then consider specific curricula and teachings within university medical programs? [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Finally, while national bodies such as the National Institute for Agricultural Research – INRA – and ANSES can undertake work on environmental health, the budgetary needs to conduct this work are important. Do you think you can increase this funding in order to improve the support of these organizations?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u200	Mr Paul Molac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u201	During the 2017 presidential campaign, candidate Macron promised to make environmental health a top priority in the quinquennium. It may have been a little forgotten, but the news reminds us with a certain cruelty that the health of humans and that of the planet are intimately linked. Our ability to fight disease by ourselves, by developing our immune defenses through a healthy diet and environment, is the best way to resist disease. And while those of our fellow citizens affected by co-morbidities have sometimes been the first to suffer from the disease, today they remain at risk. Some of these co-morbidities are of genetic origin, while others are aggravated by environmental conditions. It's true for cancers, it's true for diabetes and sometimes, too, for obesity. It is a vicious circle that must be stopped. Environmental health is at the intersection of environmental and health degradation. It highlights the existence of an inevitable reciprocity between the two, urging us to protect one to preserve the other. That is why the Liberties and Territories Group used its right to draw last year to set up a commission of inquiry into the evaluation of public environmental health policies. I am pleased that it has been able to produce a report and I hope that its findings and recommendations will give us much thought and, above all, stimulate our action. The priority is to support research with significant financial resources, as the scientific field of environmental health is still underinvested. Above all, it is marked by important disagreements and scientific questions, although legitimate, but which prevent the establishment of harmonised tools for an appropriate risk assessment. Climate change, due to the emergence of epidemics, needs to be better taken into account. I am thinking of tick and mosquito vector diseases. However, if the overseas territories are severely affected by dengue, zika or chikungunya, these diseases are beginning to occur in areas of temperate or continental climate. Similarly, if previously the ticks that transmit the bcorliosis, the famous Lyme disease, were rather in the forest and in the mountains, it is noted that they now occur in the countryside and in urban areas on the lawns of the parks. The improvement of our knowledge in this area can contribute to the management of patients. This is precisely the purpose of the fact-finding mission chaired by Jeanine Dubié, whose rapporteurs are our colleagues Vincent Descoeur and Nicole Trisse. Finally, we agree with the approach set out in the report by Mr Sandrine Josso on combined effects. Environmental health can only be understood on the basis of the level or level of exposure alone. If I insist on the need to deepen these issues, then there is still a lack of understanding of the new cancer plan presented in February. This plan lacks ambition to address the causes of environmental degradation. The new strategy focuses on cancers related to tobacco and alcohol, while the important role of pollution and the state of the environment in the development of cancers is known. We also share the recommendation of the report to make the national level the one around which local initiatives are based. We need a coordinated approach, but the cooperation of the actors is now very limited. The Committee of Inquiry has clearly shown the lack of coordination between the national environmental health plan and regional plans. Conversely, the role of local authorities and health professionals in the field in alerting and raising awareness is crucial. Our strategy of prevention and control cannot be only vertical. This is essential to the extent that environmental risks differ from one territory to another, depending in particular on varying human activities. Only a coordinated and nationally articulated territorial approach, as Sandrine Josso repeats, will make environmental health a priority of the 21st century.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u202	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u203	For more than a year since the pandemic seized our lives, we have had little, very little mention of its origin. Epidemiologists have, however, sounded the alarm: in fifty years, diseases linked to zoonoses – that is, transmitted by animals to humans – have been multiplied tenfold. At the origin of pandemics: human activities that destroy ecosystems. These include industrial farming, deforestation that destroys natural habitats, or the illegal trade in wild animals that promotes the emergence and spread of viruses; and, then, our ways of "making society", with the forced urbanization and metropolization of the world. In the density of cities, air pollution acts as a highway for the transmission of the virus. The world's big move and air traffic are finally making its spread uncontrollable. The epidemic is a social fact. It takes its meaning only in the specific moment of human civilization in which it falls – in this case that of globalized capitalism and the explosion of inequalities. Social inequalities play a key role in the mortality caused by the virus. Remember, colleagues: in March, at the time of the peak of the health crisis, the Seine-Saint-Denis reached an overmortality rate of 134%. The virus doesn't think, has no hidden intentions. On the other hand, it exposes the social organization. It mainly affects areas where the poor have been pushed back and where air quality is poor. It exploits inequalities. Diabetes, exacerbated by obesity, is itself correlated with low income levels. The virus hits those with unhealthy housing and, as a result, chronic diseases and respiratory problems. It primarily affects those who are struggling to access care. Anyway, the virus doesn't make up anything. Worse, it makes what we already knew glar – environmental inequalities pre-exist. We know that in the 1980s a worker was four times more likely to die from cancer than a senior executive; Well, that's ten times more today. We know that the poorest municipalities are those in which the most toxic and dangerous waste is buried, that the incinerators are located next to the most vulnerable populations – this is the case of the largest incinerator in Europe, in Ivry-sur-Seine. We know that the poorest live close to road traffic, that they are the ones most exposed to pollution and noise. The poorest are those who live as close as possible to the scraps of a social and economic organization that has gone mad. We also know that overseas populations are experiencing dramatic environmental racism with the persistence of chlordecone and other pesticides in soils and streams – even in umbilical cords –, substances that continue their deadly work. We know that 92% of the population of the West Indies is contaminated with this toxic and carcinogenic pesticide. Human civilization produces degraded ways of inhabiting the world. What does these inequalities reveal, if not that some people are refused to live in the world with dignity? What do they reveal, if not that some human lives are worth less to be fully lived than others? The epidemic of coronavirus, from which I demonstrate myself, has yet this revealing power that should have enlightened you. Because it depletes biodiversity and transforms the living into commodities, the capitalism in which we live has facilitated the emergence and spread of the virus. It was he who created the conditions for his appearance and liquidated our means of dealing with it. This is the culprit of the disaster. I wish to affirm in this forum the choice of civilization that is imperative to us. Creation and unlimited accumulation of wealth, infinite growth are incompatible with respect for ecosystems and healthy human life. There will always be women and men exhausted to accomplish the purpose of some, sacrificed on the altar of gain, as were workers exposed to asbestos, nuclear subcontractors exposed to radioactivity or, nowadays, farmers exposed to glyphosate. We don't count the big burns of capitalism anymore. What the pandemic teaches us is that human health and ecosystem health are irreparably intertwined. It is the same brass law that breaks the bodies and destroys nature. Placing the economy at the top of the hierarchy of norms leads us to disaster. Ending the empire of globalized capitalism is what we call the best of public environmental health policies. We must break with this economic system that destroys the living and exploits human life. As Romain Gary wrote: "The human species has come into conflict with the space, the earth, the very air it needs to live. How can we talk about progress, while we still destroy around us the most beautiful and noble manifestations of life? »
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u204	Mrs Chantal Jourdan has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u205	As we have been experiencing a health crisis over the past year linked to the environmental consequences of human actions and as we have just considered in committee the draft law on combating climate change and strengthening resilience to its effects, it is appropriate to look at environmental health. If we consider the definition of the World Health Organization, environmental health includes the aspects of human health, including quality of life, which are determined by the physical, chemical, biological, social, psychosocial and aesthetic factors of the environment. In the face of such an extended subject, I will simply go back to two elements. First, as the report of the commission of inquiry demonstrates, it is necessary to develop a set of public policies based on scientific evidence to address environmental health issues. In his report, Mr Josso notes the difficulties encountered in the field of science. Too often, we are faced with research deficiencies, so it is difficult to say that there is a direct link between an environmental cause and its impact on our health. However, as indicated in the report, the scientists interviewed agreed that the lack of certainty, which frequently characterizes investigations arising from suspicions of links, should not be treated as a conclusive sign of the absence of a link. Assimilating the difficulties of linking to the absence of a link means leaving citizens exposed without solution and without accompaniment. I have seen this in practice in my department, where farmers are confronted with the effects of electrical phenomena on their farms. On some farms, farmers observe changes in the behaviour of animals, signs of suffering on their part, which leads to a decline in yield and thus affects their income. In the face of these phenomena, important analyses are carried out on hygiene, food and the environment, often by the Permanent Group for Agricultural Electrical Safety, the GPSE, an organization created by the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. In these specific cases, electrical phenomena are strongly involved. But the GPSE remains ambivalent. Why? Well, it's partly funded by the body that's suspected of being involved in the troubles. So this is a very concrete example of an organization that cannot conduct the work independently, which delays the understanding of the phenomena. The report's proposal No 1 to develop inclusive research is obviously a first step, but the question of means and independence is also fundamental. Second point: while the report's proposals are interesting, no systemic apprehension of the subject is envisaged, since only improvements are recommended within the narrow framework of existing policies. However, it is important that we take a broader interest in environmental health, including by reflecting on the causes. Improved prevention policies are needed, as they are too often part of risk preparedness and not part of risk avoidance. Whether it is climate change, the deployment of technologies or the development of new production organisations, all this has and will have an impact on our health because these changes have an impact on the environment. However, the current logic is pushing for an unbridled race towards the development of new technologies and practices, accompanied by studies and analyses at an early stage, with little progress and without the necessary hindrance. In addition, we know that it is very difficult, if not impossible, to go back when technology has been introduced. We are therefore reduced to managing the sometimes disastrous consequences by providing more or less effective corrective measures. To quote a few examples: we always face the consequences of the asbestos scandal; we found the pollution following the fire at the Lubrizol plant; Finally, we are aware of the chlordecone disaster in the overseas territories; we know the consequences of poor quality food or air pollution. And we refuse to consider the direct and indirect effects that 5G or electromagnetic waves could have. Protecting the health of all will therefore require a comprehensive examination of the causes. It is time to fundamentally question our development model. The current crisis has once again demonstrated our difficulty in taking on mistakes. While scientists have been alerting us for many years about the release of dangerous viruses, in connection with our abuse of the environment, the destruction of biodiversity or the accelerated melting of permafrost promise us much worse if we do not know how to draw the consequences of our choices. When we talk about improving public environmental health policies, unfortunately we find ourselves getting the Titanic with a bucket. As Ms.Josso points out, our inaction, which has lasted for several decades, leads to enormous costs in human lives and public finances: according to the WHO, 23% of mortality is linked to an environmental cause and a Senate committee of inquiry estimates the cost of air pollution to be EUR 100 billion per year. The facts are there and should encourage us to reflect in depth on our development model and not only on improving ways of managing its consequences for our health.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u206	I call Mrs Toutut-Picard (LaREM).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u207	According to the WHO, more than 100,000 people die every year in France of chronic environmental pathologies – cancers, cardiovascular and endocrine diseases, diabetes, obesity – which represents 15% of the total mortality in our country. According to data from Public Health France published in 2017, the pollution of outdoor air by particles with a diameter of less than 2.5 microns – PM 2.5 – alone would be responsible for nearly 50,000 premature deaths each year. Agrican – Agriculture and Cancer – published in November 2020, makes a direct link between the incidence of some rare cancers significantly higher in farmers and the use of plant protection products by this occupational category. Furthermore, the General Inspectorate of Social Affairs – IGAS – estimated in 2017 that the economic consequences of the effects of air pollution and endocrine disruptors alone reached almost 8% of GDP. Environmental degradation is therefore an additional cost to our budget and is one of the leading causes of mortality in France. The concept of environmental health, theorized by WHO in 1990, integrates these systemic interactions between our health, climate change and the many pollutants present in our environment, be they endocrine disruptors or other chemicals affecting air, water, soil and food quality. The covid-19 epidemic also raised the issue of interactions between humans, wildlife and ecosystems. A new global scientific approach, called OneHealth – "One Health" – stresses that the health of humans also depends on the health of animals and ecosystems. To better understand these issues and to draw up an assessment of current public policies, a commission of inquiry was set up in June 2020, consisting of 30 Members of Parliament. Over the course of 12 weeks, from September to December, it received more than 60 people representing stakeholders in the field of environmental health. These hearings identified the main challenges related to this issue: the challenge of national and territorial governance; challenge in the collection and processing of scientific data; research, training and information challenges; need to adopt a "One Health" approach. The sense of collective impotence that emerged from these hearings in the face of penalising organisational shortcomings is offset by the fact that France is the only European country to have introduced a structured public policy on environmental health. The national plan health environment, a programmatic tool of French public policy, is considered a real chance. However, while the successive versions of this plan contain many interesting actions, inspired by the work of the environmental health group – GSE – which chairs their development, this policy remains, unfortunately, often incantatory. The two assessment reports published in December 2018 by IGAS and the General Council for the Environment and Sustainable Development – CGEDD – highlight the shortcomings of an otherwise poorly known policy of elected officials and the public. The work of the commission of inquiry has allowed us to analyse these difficulties and propose solutions to remedy them. For my part, in my capacity as chairman of this committee, I have presented sixty very concrete proposals. It is indeed urgent to better structure this policy by setting quantified objectives and allocating appropriate means to it, to boost research on exposure and to train and inform all actors. Our public health policy, which has hitherto been essentially curative, must develop its preventive dimension and anticipate all the threats to life, of which we are a part. My question is thus: to what extent will the proposals of the members of the commission of inquiry be included in the national plan for health and environment 4 which the Government will formalize shortly?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u208	Mrs Valérie Six has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u209	For several decades now, the human being has been aware of its influence on the environment and its involvement in the deterioration of the environment. However, awareness of the consequences of environmental degradation on one's own health is much more recent. It now appears to us as evidence that human activity is the cause of many chronic diseases: we breathe polluted air causing lung disease and we ingest harmful products from food or water. We need to get out of the logic that our activity is the cause of an evil to the appearance of which we strive to find treatment. Taking care of patients suffering from these ailments through medication treatments is certainly a chance, but developing a preventive approach to treating the origin of the disorder would be much more effective. Remember that co-morbidities are often lifestyle-related diseases. People with it sometimes have a harmful quality of life and their illness does not leave them, making themselves felt in every gesture of everyday life. These people are the most vulnerable to diseases – everyone sees well, in the current health crisis, that they are, together with the elderly, the most likely to develop serious forms of covid-19. In addition to accompanying them, we must therefore establish a proactive public policy for the prevention of co-morbidities, all the more forcefully since they are, obviously, often caused by human activity. We are facing a public health issue, which concerns us all. Environmental health is, however, a very recent subject, which requires enormous research efforts to identify the effects of a particular material, a particular molecule, or a particular combination of molecules on human health. The IDU and independent group defends, on this point as well as on the more global issue of environmental conservation, a positive vision, which is available in two stages. As a first step, products which pose a danger to human health, particularly in industry, should be identified. Once these products have been identified, it is necessary to accompany the industrialists to increase their capacity for innovation in order to enable them to discover, invent and implement new modes of production. This first point cannot be considered without the second, which consists of deploying a major prevention plan to raise awareness among our citizens of healthier consumption patterns. Encouraging consumers to turn away from products likely to affect human health is indeed the best way to encourage industrialists to change their production patterns. Such awareness-raising should focus, as a priority, on the youngest and most vulnerable populations. It should be used not only in schools, colleges or high schools, but also in the services of PMI – maternal and child protection. Local and regional authorities participate in this information. I would also like to welcome the action taken by local elected representatives in the field of environmental health. The central point of public action must be prevention. I recall that 85% of breast cancers are of toxic origin: they are preventable cancers. To date, the only prevention that prevails is screening. Of course, breast cancer screening is essential, because detecting cancer early enough increases the chances of curing it. But the real prevention would be to inform and educate women about practices and products that may have toxic components, especially those with sufficient reason to believe that they are likely to develop this type of cancer. Our group supports a vision of supporting industries towards innovation to change production patterns, while raising awareness of healthy consumption patterns and integrating environmental health issues into our public prevention policies.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u210	The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Children and Families.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u211	On 20 November 2020, you had heard from Minister Olivier Véran in the framework of the commission of inquiry on the evaluation of public environmental health policies. He then indicated to you his full commitment to advancing our work in this area. If much remains to be done, much has been done. I would like to pay tribute here to those who, since 2017, have acted in very concrete areas even if they may seem technical, to remove titanium dioxide from our diet, to allow the reimbursement of second hand technical aids or to reduce waste and to get out of the disposable plastic age. As soon as he arrived at the Ministry of Solidarity and Health, Olivier Véran spoke of environmental health, not to make beautiful speeches, but because the environment is one of the main determinants of individual and community health. The role of the Ministry of Solidarity and Health in this regard is to protect the population, especially vulnerable people, from environmental risks. Protecting present and future generations must be a shared responsibility. We share it with all members of the Government, in particular with Barbara Pompili, Minister of Environmental Transition. In November 2020, the Minister of Solidarity and Health, together with our colleague, committed to moving the finalization of the National Health Environment 4 Plan by a few weeks to take better account of the recommendations of your work. The public consultation on the plan, which was then under way, ended last December. As for the committee of inquiry, it also completed its work in December. Thank you for bringing this public debate to a successful conclusion, on a subject that is of legitimate concern to our fellow citizens, young or old. I have the opportunity to present the actions carried out by the Ministry of Solidarity and Health in recent months to advance our action on environmental health. First, on February 4, on the occasion of World Cancer Day, the President of the Republic unveiled the 10-year cancer control strategy for the years 2021 to 2030. This strategy, with strengthened resources, aims to significantly reduce the burden of cancer in the daily lives of French people. It plans to act to better prevent cancers, especially those related to environmental factors, by reducing our daily exposure to these factors. In this connection, I would like to draw your attention to the complex issue of clusters, to which I know the members of the committee of inquiry who are particularly concerned. I share your desire to strengthen our capacity to treat and support them. That is why the 10-year strategy, which we are leading with the Minister of Higher Education, Research and Innovation, includes the development, on the basis of the available registers, of new methods of detecting and investigating cancer clusters, in particular paediatric cancers. This strategy will also focus on better recognition of occupational exposures to prevent cancers at work. Fully enshrined in the European plan to combat cancer, it is a very concrete expression of our ambition to continue this fight. On 24 February last, it was this time with Sébastien Lecornu, Minister of Overseas Affairs, that Olivier Véran launched the fourth chlordecone plan. Close to the needs of the people of Martinique and Guadeloupe, the plan aims to enable not only the State and local authorities, but also civil society, to act together to protect the Caribbean population as best as possible from chlordecone pollution and to implement appropriate accompanying measures, while meeting the needs of the population. This plan is a concrete example of the territorialisation of environmental health policy, to which, as I know, the members of the committee of inquiry are also attached – several of you mentioned it during your interventions. Another concrete example is radon. In this regard, I welcome the interdepartmental coordination that led to the launch of the fourth national action plan for the risk management of radon under the aegis of the Nuclear Safety Authority – ASN. I would also point out that last February the development of the regulatory framework for regional centres for occupational and environmental pathologies, which contribute to the facilitation of networks of occupational health professionals and to the teaching and research of such pathologies, has been completed. In each region, the regional health agency – ARS – will designate a public health institution to host one of these centres. The latter will have to comply with the specifications published in the annex to the decree of 16 February, which specifies the nature of their activities and their organisation. In connection with the Agence nationale de sécurité santé de l'alimentaire, de l'environnement et du travail, as well as with Santé publique France, we will be able to seize these centres to conduct work on occupational and environmental pathologies based on data coming directly from the territories. I now turn to the national plan health environment 4. First of all, I would like to thank MP Élisabeth Toutut-Picard, who, as president of the Environmental Health Group, has been organizing, with all stakeholders, the co-construction of this plan since 2019. I would also like to thank all the members of the Committee of Inquiry, starting with Mrs Sandrine Josso. You have done a remarkable job thanks to the numerous hearings of actors – at the national level or in the territories – with a wide variety of profiles. This very rich work, along with your recommendations, has provided useful insights into the finalization of NSP 4 and, more broadly, the definition and conduct of this environmental health policy. PNSE 4 will respond, I hope, to your concerns, which are also those of the department. As you know, this plan was to be published in early 2020 as part of the Prime Minister's interdepartmental committee on health. The health crisis, which began a year ago, and which still concerns us every day, has led to the interruption of this work and has come to remind us – some of you have mentioned – of the close links between human health, animal health and, at another level, that of ecosystems. NESP 4 had to take into account this issue, which is in addition to the problem of our exposure to chemical and physical agents that can contribute to the development of many multifactorial chronic diseases such as cardiovascular disease, respiratory pathologies, diabetes or obesity. That is why, in January 2020, we, together with Barbara Pompili, wanted the PNSE 4 to fully integrate the "One Health" approach, evoked by some of you, and already deeply rooted in Olivier Véran's anti-bioresistance policy, alongside Julien Denormandie, Minister of Agriculture and Food. The sustainable and reasoned use of biocides, vector control or pest control, the prevention of light nuisances, the monitoring of animal health are all subjects dealt with in PNSE 4 to protect not only humans and animals but also, more broadly, ecosystems. We also wanted, as you propose, to strengthen the training of health professionals, in particular by taking into account these interactions between all health care providers. Environmental health is everyone's business. In the face of the proliferation of sources of information, particularly through social networks, it is the responsibility of the State to guarantee reliable information for our citizens. This awareness must be raised at an early age. That is why, together with Jean-Michel Blanquer, Minister of National Education, Youth and Sports, and Frédérique Vidal, Minister of Higher Education, Research and Innovation, we want environmental health to be part of the training curriculum – for the youngest, as part of the "health-promoting school" approach, for adolescents, as part of the universal national service and, finally, for health students, as part of the health service for health students. With regard to the adult audience, a digital service will inform the most vulnerable people, in particular, about air quality, the quality of the environment in the vicinity of their home and the right actions to be taken. With the PNSE 4 and the Nutri-Score model to which, as you know, Mr Olivier Véran is attached, we want to move towards a simplified reading of product labelling, in line with European policy, to allow everyone a use that limits exposures and risks. The issue of research is equally important to us, given the complex links between environment and health and the many uncertainties that remain. It covers several dimensions, first of all that of access to data, at national and territorial level. I know that you have addressed this issue in the course of your work and that some have mentioned it here. I agree with your wish to facilitate access to this data. With regard to health data, the creation of the health data platform – PDS, or health data hub – in 2019, by the Ministry of Solidarity and Health, responded to this need to pool data, facilitate their access and therefore encourage research. With Barbara Pompili, we want such a mechanism to be put in place for environmental data, in order to meet the needs of research as well as those of actors in the territories. This will be the case with the creation of the green data for health. Research must also have the means to better understand human exposure and ecosystems and to explore emerging pathogens related to zoonoses. With the support of Frédérique Vidal, two priority research programs and equipment, supported by PNSE 4, will advance knowledge. These issues are fully within the framework of the multi-year programming law that you have discussed. I now turn to the issue of environmental health policy governance and, in particular, its decline in the territories. I know that you have rightly devoted a great deal of attention to this in your work. Indeed, it is through the mobilization of all the territorial scales, each with its own expertise, that we will be able to carry out an effective environmental health policy. I would like to take this opportunity to remind you that, since 2016, the Public Health Code already requires each region to draw up a regional environmental health plan, implemented by the RSA, the Prefect and the Regional Council. The regional environmental health plan contains the national plan of the same name, while adapting it to the specific needs of each territory. Fifteen regional plans, representing more than 500 actions in the territories, are now under way. They have already allowed the development of local engineering in support of the implementation of environmental health policy. Each year, in the framework of calls for projects, the pilots of the plans accompany communities, departments, EPCIs – public institutions for intercommunal cooperation – and municipalities, in the definition and deployment of environmental health actions. With the second generation of these contracts, consideration of environmental health has increased – it is to be welcomed. In Brittany, for example, all local health contracts now have an environmental health component, while in New Aquitaine more than 80% of them do. The momentum is on: it must now continue and continue to grow. That is why, together with Barbara Pompili, we want to create a territorial animation committee that will, through the pooling of skills and experiences in identifying new levers of action, increase the integration of environmental health into local policies. In the face of communities that are on hold, regional health agencies will continue to work to meet the expressed needs. At the national level, the environmental health group will be strengthened by consolidating its role, composition and functioning. We are particularly committed to this in view of the essential role of stakeholder participation in shaping the broad directions of our public policies in this area. In this regard, and in view of the ongoing reform, we hope that the Economic, Social and Environmental Council and its regional variations will be associated with the governance of PNSE 4 in order to further strengthen the participation of civil society in this policy, for which our citizens obviously have strong and legitimate expectations. There is not only what we are building in Parliament, but there is also what local elected officials and citizens, guided by circumstances and pragmatism – often – and by concern for the common good – always – are building on their own initiative. We must not miss out on these movements, especially when they are in the direction of history and better environmental health. In recent weeks, in recent months, the shape of our cities has changed. Everywhere we have seen the emergence of infrastructures designed to secure active mobility. This is a very serious subject, because it is an unparalleled lever of transformation that younger generations and families, as well as our elders, are waiting for. You know this: some of our European neighbours – I am thinking in the Netherlands or Denmark, often mentioned – have been leading the way for a long time by increasing the possibilities to move without risk or fear, without pollution or noise, and by doing physical exercise. With the bike plan announced in 2018, a €350 million fund over seven years was created to help local and regional authorities build safe and reliable bike paths. Under the France Recovery Plan, an additional 100 million were provided. The aim is to triple, by 2024, the bike's share of daily travel – from 3% to 9%. We cannot talk about environmental health without questioning how we move: that is why I wanted to draw your attention to this issue at the end of my speech. I wish you a rich parliamentary work on the draft law on combating climate change and strengthening resilience to its effects, which has already been debated in committee and which will be discussed in this House from next week. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] In conclusion, I reaffirm my commitment, that of Olivier Véran, the Ministry of Solidarity and Health and the Government as a whole, to the consolidation of our environmental health policy and the protection of the health of our citizens for today and for tomorrow.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u212	We come to the questions. I would like to remind you that both the duration and the duration of the replies are limited to two minutes without the right to reply. Mrs Geraldine Bannier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u213	Environmental degradation – as previous speakers have pointed out – is a major concern of our time. Our fellow citizens are fully aware of this, but do they measure the direct effect it has on their health? Nothing's less sure. Faced with the flood of pathologies, it would be good to raise awareness, especially among young people, because they are the adults of tomorrow, so those who will suffer the most from environmental pathologies. Education and prevention must therefore be the key words of any environmental health policy. Of course, many initiatives, as you have pointed out, are in this direction. I am thinking here of the national plans health environment, the group health environment, the Nutri-Score, the Toxi-score proposed by Mrs Laurianne Rossi and Claire Pitollat, at the launch, by the agency Santé publique France, of the institutional site acti-pour-bé.fr, at ARTEMIS – Aquitaine reproduction enfance maternité et impact en santé environnement –, a regional expert centre in primary prevention and reproduction. However, these initiatives are still insufficient and information is not available, especially at a time of misinformation. While prevention investments are high, they are more effective and cost-effective in the long term. As Béatrice Buguet, Inspector General of Social Affairs, points out, "all health prevention and health risk management actions are perceived as expenditure, while in reality non-action generates huge costs". There is an urgent need to address the lack of a true environmental health awareness policy and to respond to the need for verified information for the population and local elected representatives. As the Minister of Solidarity and Health recently pointed out, approaches to risk prevention, public information and the search for solutions with the lowest environmental footprint should be given priority as soon as possible. So my question is: in terms of environmental health, can we say that we are in the process of adopting a true culture of anticipation and prevention?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u214	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u215	Yes, I assure you. We are fully committed to an approach of anticipation and a culture of prevention, as you call them of your wishes. Environmental health is obviously everyone's business, as I said in my opening remarks. It is a real challenge in the face of the proliferation of sources of information, including social networks, a major concern of the public authorities. It is the responsibility of the State to guarantee our citizens reliable information in the face of all their questions. As I said, this awareness must be raised at an early age. This is why PNSE 4, published shortly, foresees that environmental health will be integrated into the training curricula, for the youngest as part of the "health-promoting school" approach, for adolescents within the framework of the universal national service and for health students within the framework of the health service for health students. We will also continue to disseminate preventive messages for the attention of parents and for the benefit of children, on the one hand, in the logic of the site acte-pour-bé.fr, which already warns against the presence in the environment of certain endocrine disruptors that may be toxic to our children, on the other hand, as part of the "1000 days journey" launched by the Government. These tools, at the service of all citizens, will also be intended for professionals who, too, require reliable information, in a way labeled by the public authorities. Finally, I would like to reiterate our wish to move towards a simplified reading of the labelling of the various products, based on the Nutri-Score model, and within the framework of European policy, in order to allow everyone a use that limits exposures and risks.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u216	Mrs Chantal Jourdan has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u217	A recent INRAE report, the National Research Institute for Agriculture, Food and the Environment, focuses on environmental health as an engine of the agricultural, food and environmental transition. This work highlights two main areas of public policy. First of all, taking environmental health into account involves considering current agricultural policies and those that need to be developed in order to ensure quality and environmentally friendly production. If health is to be taken into account, quality food must be provided and appropriate practices must be developed. Working on these issues requires a positive approach to environmental health by acting upstream. Secondly, this report shows that a large majority of the agricultural world is still particularly exposed to the risks associated with pollution from production, whether pesticides, herbicides or many other substances: we have an increasingly precise scientific literature on these subjects. The pollution is twofold: first, there are those which affect the environment by contamination of the environment – air, land, water resources, etc. – their long-term impact threatening essential resources and exposing populations to health risks; Secondly, there are pollutions that directly affect the health of farmers and herders, sometimes still dependent on these products and thus put themselves at risk. Working on environmental health is therefore a first step in preventing and, unfortunately, accompanying when the damage is already there, which requires ambitious public policies, based, first, on assessments and research to know precisely what is at stake, and, second, on ambitious policies of protection and planning. Mr. Secretary of State, whether it is the development of virtuous practices or post-contamination support, what ambitious health policy does the Government put in place to accompany breeders and producers?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u218	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u219	The points that you raise are at the heart of the concerns and action not only of the Minister of Agriculture and Food, Julien Denormandie, but also of the Minister of the Ecological Transition, Barbara Pompili, with the shared desire to overcome the divide between agricultural and environmental issues, too long opposed, while they must be able to be dealt with together. I would like to recall some important developments in response to your questions about the actions taken by the various members of the Government. The Ministry of Solidarity and Health is leading Action No. 11 of the Ecophyto II+ Plan, which aims to strengthen the monitoring of contamination of food, water, soil and air, as well as to assess and reduce the risk of exposure of the population. Please be aware that the envelope amounts to €3.8 million for 2020, of which just over one million is for calls for projects covering both national and local measures. We also launched a study called Pesti'Riv, commissioned by ANSES and Public Health France, to analyse the exposure to pesticides in wine-growing areas in 2020 and the following four years. As for the results of the national exploratory campaign on pesticides in air, they were published in June 2020, and discussions are under way on the creation and financing of a permanent mechanism in this field. Finally, know that a collective expertise from INSERM – National Institute of Health and Medical Research – entitled Pesticides and Health is expected by the various ministries concerned and will be available to the general public by the end of the first quarter of 2021.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u220	Mr Thomas Gassilloud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u221	As part of this debate on environmental health, I would like to ask you about zoonoses and, more broadly, our country's contribution to the One Health Strategy – One Health. I recall that zoonoses are diseases that are transmitted from vertebrate animals to humans, and vice versa, and that the pathogens involved are bacteria, viruses – for example, covid-19 – or parasites. According to the World Organisation for Animal Health, 60% of human infectious diseases are zoonotic, which means that out of five new diseases, three are of animal origin. I see a real collective awareness of the link between animal health and human health through the concept of "One health". The health crisis was an opportunity to move forward on the subject. Under the aegis of France, the PREZODE initiative – Preventing the risks of zoonotic emergence and pandemics – was announced at the One planet summit on 11 January. I have also noted that a veterinarian is now part of the Scientific Council and that veterinary laboratories have been allowed to carry out PCR tests: in my constituency, 120,000 tests were carried out at Marcy -L'Étoile Veterinary School, which I thank for its mobilization. Collective awareness is therefore present, the health crisis has made it possible to move towards a better link between animal health and human health. But, Mr Secretary of State, how can we generalize this common approach today? Could we consider a truly national "One Health" strategy, with interdepartmental work? And since there is a lot of talk about training in the territories, I for my part welcome the success of the "One Health in Practice" school diploma, awarded after three weeks of training to people of very different backgrounds, whether practitioners or elected officials in the territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u222	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u223	The health crisis that we are going through has been a vivid reminder of the close links between human health, animal health and, more broadly, the health of ecosystems. It is essential that the PNSE 4 takes account of this issue, which is complementary to that of exposure to chemical and physical agents which contribute to different pathologies. This is why PNSE 4, which will soon be published, fully integrates this "One Health" approach, already firmly rooted in the anti-bioresistance policy of the Ministry of Solidarity and Health and the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. The sustainable and reasoned use of biocides, the control of vectors or against pests such as bed bugs, as well as light nuisances and animal health monitoring, all of which are included in this plan to protect both humans, animals and ecosystems. These actions will be carried out jointly by these two ministries and by that of the ecological transition. As you mentioned at the end of your question, the training of health professionals will be strengthened by taking into account interactions between all health care providers. I would also like to inform you that veterinarians will be associated with NSEP 4, to inform animal owners about the proper use of biocides, i.e., a use that is respectful of human, animal and environmental health. Finally, I would like to point out that a priority research programme and equipment will be devoted to emerging pathogens related to zoonoses.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u224	Mrs Valérie Six has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u225	In September 2019, the Government officially presented the second phase of the national strategy on endocrine disruptors 2019-2022. Hormonal disorders, congenital malformations, cancer, endometriosis and even immunity disorder: endocrine disruptors act on the hormonal functions of the body and require long-term follow-up. This strategy therefore aims to reduce public exposure to these substances and environmental contamination through research, expertise, public information and professional training. I would like to recall the action taken by the chairman of our group, Jean-Christophe Lagarde, in favour of the ban on endocrine disruptors, since he was at the initiative of banning bisphenol A in bottles from 2010, then in containers in 2011. France appears to be a European leader in the fight against endocrine disruptors, and you are aware, of course, that it will preside over the Council of the European Union in the first half of 2022. This will be an opportunity for our country to defend this subject and, more broadly, that of environmental health at European level, because it is indeed an awareness at European level that we need since it is hormonal disorders, congenital malformations, cancers, endometriosis and immunity disorders. Thus, Mr. Secretary of State, in the continuity of the national strategy on endocrine disruptors, what is the Government planning to implement to raise European awareness on this topic of public health?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u226	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u227	France's action in this area is already a reality at European level. Endocrine disruptors, which are found in a large number of everyday consumer products, especially those with which children are in contact, are a major health and environmental issue. Let me also welcome your colleague Jean-Christophe Lagarde, whose action you have just recalled in this regard. At the national level, the Ministry of Solidarity and Health co-pilots with the Ministry of Ecological Transition the second phase, which you mentioned, of the national strategy on endocrine disruptors. The French Government is also involved in drafting implementing legislation for the law on combating waste and the circular economy, which includes an obligation to display the presence of endocrine disruptors in products, a measure which will enable consumers to make more informed choices and perhaps encourage them to substitute for them. At European level, Barbara Pompili leads the policy on chemicals, including endocrine disruptors, and this is an opportunity for me to welcome her action, which the Ministry of Solidarity and Health obviously supports. Recently, the European Commission published its new chemicals strategy, which contains several long-standing measures defended by France: a harmonised definition of endocrine disruptors and a cross-cutting ban on endocrine disruptors in consumer products – except for rare derogations for so-called essential uses. Finally, France is carrying out a major work on the identification of endocrine disruptors, thanks, as you know, to the work of the National Agency for Health Safety, Food, Environment and Labour. Our country has already contributed to the identification of bisphenol A as an endocrine disruptor, you recalled, even more recently for trinonylphenol phosphite – PPTP – containing nonylphenol. Be convinced that France will continue to promote the fight against endocrine disruptors within the national territory and within a Community framework.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u228	Mrs Martine Wonner has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u229	The current health crisis conceals yet another: the environmental crisis caused by the considerable increase in public health consumables – single-use masks, plastic protection or single-use blankets in the restaurant to take away. The list would be long, but I'm sure everyone here will understand the extent of the problem, when they know that surgical masks take more than 450 years to degrade in nature. The report we are debating today calls for the Ministry of Solidarity and Health and the Ministry of Ecological Transition to adopt "active policies to raise awareness of responsible procurement". The hospital system alone has more than EUR 17 billion in annual consumables expenditure. However, the report points out that "there is still no responsible procurement policy" in this sector, i.e. a policy to acquire "goods and services whose environmental impact is minimized (short distribution channels, integrated recycling), and which promote good practices in terms of ethics and human rights (no child labour)". Our own masks in the National Assembly often come from orders placed on the other side of the world, in China. So my question is very simple, Mr Secretary of State: has your ministry planned to put in place an active public policy on waste management directly or indirectly induced by this health crisis?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u230	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u231	Thank you for your question. I agree with you that the responsible procurement policy to which you refer must infuse all sectors and lead to collective efforts. The public authorities must of course set an example and act as a driving force in this regard. You are, of course, aware of the role of the Ministry of Environmental Transition with regard to waste recycling standards. The adoption, a few months ago, of the law on the fight against waste and the circular economy, known as the anti-waste law, has enabled us to make many advances, on which we must capitalize. I know that discussions are continuing with Minister Barbara Pompili. But since you question my ministry, I make it clear that we do not exempt ourselves from participating in this collective effort. The Ministry of Solidarity and Health is very much involved in the management of infectious waste of care activities: that is why important work has been carried out with the sector responsible for this management, in particular to deal with an overproduction of waste in the current context of a health crisis, which has had a strong impact in this field. In order to solve the new problem which has arisen with the explosion of the use of disposable masks, initiatives are being developed, in particular in connection with the associations, whose action I would like to welcome. With regard to responsible procurement policy, the Government clearly shows its willingness to work towards better consumer information – I have just cited the example of endocrine disruptors and their presence in certain consumer products. The work carried out in the wake of the above-mentioned law will lead, thanks to the PNSE 4 – I am thinking in particular of the Toxi-Score – to improve the visibility of these issues by means of a renewed labelling of household products, thus contributing to a more effective collective approach in this field.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u232	Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u233	The more the years go by, the more we see environmental degradation, which is not without consequences for the health of humans, animals and plants. The situation is becoming so worrying that it has led to the creation of a commission of inquiry into the evaluation of public environmental health policies. I commend his work, which, in view of the health crisis, has taken place in difficult conditions. As the Commission's report indicates, the evaluation has shown the limitations of implementing an environmental health policy at the national level, the failure of planning and the ineffectiveness of the national environmental health plan due to lack of political will. However, there is an urgent need: my colleague Mathilde Panot has described the situation well and I am not going to go back to the twenty-one proposals of the Committee of Inquiry. I would like to refer to the – which remains worrying – situation from dengue to Reunion. Since 2020, there have been 16,000 registered cases, 782 hospitalizations, 1761 emergency calls and 22 deaths, 11 of which are directly related to dengue fever. The current period, marked by the rainy and hot season, contributes to an increase in contamination. This is the case every year, but vector control actions are still inadequate. I would remind you that the risk of a combination of dengue and covid-19 exists in Reunion. There is even one form of confusion: one speaks of a virus that would have evolved into a more severe form. [[Mrs Mathilde Panot and Mr André Chassaigne applaud]] Mr. Secretary of State, why did you abandon the gullible plan? It had led to the eradication of the chikungunya, who was responsible at the time for more than 300 deaths because the maintenance of the ravines, picnic areas or tourist sites had not been carried out. Regesting waste, they are places of proliferation of mosquitoes vectors of the disease. It is urgent to reactivate the ravine plan, with the necessary financial and human resources, because dengue must no longer kill in Reunion. In the recovery plan, there are CEP contracts – job skills pathways. Is the Government prepared, as at the time, to raise its financial participation in these contracts to 100 per cent under the Ravine Plan? As the President of the Republic said, no matter what the cost: health has no price. Dengue mustn't kill any more.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u234	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u235	First of all, from a general point of view, you point to the lack of political will to implement a genuine public environmental health policy. Without much surprise, I don't share your analysis. The work carried out since 2017 and, more recently, within the framework of the commission of inquiry – despite the difficult conditions you mentioned related to the crisis – is evidence of a collective awareness of the importance of these subjects, and of a dynamic that will no longer stop. The Government will, of course, take its full part. Regarding the question of dengue, I was in La Réunion last October; I had the opportunity to meet you. Although this was not the central purpose of my trip, I was able to discuss the issue of dengue with local authorities, the prefect and the regional health agency. I was able to understand the importance of it, as well as the trauma that it left in the population. I propose that you discuss more concretely and more precisely, outside the Chamber, the very specific subjects that you have mentioned. I am well aware of their importance, especially since you have recalled the interactions that may exist between dengue and covid-19. This is one aspect that we have in mind in the Ministry of Solidarity and Health.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u236	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u237	The health crisis has passed our society to the teller. Indeed, while the covid-19 epidemic has strained our health care system, it has also revealed the significant interaction between the destruction of the environment and the emergence of new viruses. An increasing number of studies thus show a link between air pollution and the acceleration of the spread of the virus and its contagiosity. In addition, obesity, diabetes and cancer – which are often linked to an ultra-transformed diet – have been aggravating factors of the epidemic, with more burdensome and complex management for those affected by these chronic diseases. More broadly, we know that air pollution increases respiratory diseases, asthma and cardiovascular problems. According to a senator's report, it would cause 48,000 deaths a year and cost society between 70 and 100 billion euros. In the face of all these challenges, we cannot leave it to a policy of good conscience, which is to rely on the regulation of individual behaviour, without dealing with the structural problems associated with our production and consumption patterns. [[Mrs Mathilde Panot and Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon applaud]] All these findings call for urgent action and strengthened means to improve our quality of life, as well as the quality of air and our diet. It also means strengthening our prevention policy, which remains the poor parent of our health policies. The resources devoted to this are derisory: €2.9 billion, out of a health budget of €215 billion a year, or less than 2%. The health crisis is forcing us to change our software. What measures does the Government intend to implement rapidly to implement a major prevention policy in the field of environmental health?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u238	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u239	It is customary to say that prevention is not part of our culture. This is true with regard to environmental health, but we could adopt the same reasoning regarding health in general: in France, we treat very well, but we have a little more difficulty in doing prevention. In fact, I often make the same observation with regard to child protection: it is often expected that it will be too late to repair, whereas more could probably be done, thanks to earlier intervention. I will allow myself to answer you by focusing on the issue of air quality. You are asking for specific measures: I will mention some of them. We work with the minister of ecological transition, using several channels: health surveillance, thanks to the vigilant eye of Public Health France; prevention and public information – I am thinking of the work that is under way to go further in the labelling of the most emissive products; continued work with health professionals to encourage the dissemination of health recommendations, training on these issues or the overall improvement of knowledge. The stakes are multiple and the answers must be multiple. In particular, as Secretary of State for Children and Families, I would like to refer to the measures taken for these audiences. The High Health Authority has thus been seized with a view to issuing recommendations for health professionals in the event of peak pollution, particularly to school audiences. We know, indeed, how sensitive children are to lower air quality and we are working on it. I am also thinking of other civil society actors, such as UNICEF, the United Nations Children's Fund. Its advocacy for the creation of safe pedestrian school streets throughout the country, guaranteeing better air quality in the immediate vicinity of schools, can be a source of inspiration. Some communities have decided to do so. If my speaking time were not exhausted, I could mention many other measures, such as the establishment of the Observatory on Indoor Air Quality. Prevention of environmental health is a theme that will be at the heart of the future NEHP 4.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u240	Mr Yves Daniel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u241	The Act of 9 August 2004 on public health policy and the Act of 26 January 2016 on the modernization of our health system recalled that the effect of environmental pollution is one of the main health concerns for our country. According to WHO, about 15% of French mortality is related to the environment. Environmental pollution affects the quality of air, soil, water and food. They can have multiple origins, such as particles from the combustion of hydrocarbons, endocrine disruptors, but also – and increasingly – electromagnetic waves. In some cases, magnetic fields induced by wind turbines, relay antenna masts or even high-voltage lines or electric returns to the earth are carried by the ground, in particular via land-based faults and groundwater. This leads to an increase in the electromagnetic field, which has effects on the health of humans and animals. Thus, in the Loire-Atlantique, between the multiplication of pediatric cancers in Sainte-Pazanne and the overmortality of animals in Puceul, the suspicion of the impact of electromagnetic waves on human and animal health becomes a growing concern of the population and elected officials. I am not talking about belief, charlatanism, or witchcraft, but about a reality lived by the inhabitants. It is important that the development of high-voltage lines, wind turbines or relay antenna masts is a precautionary principle. While transitions are necessary and expected, all measures must be taken to avoid endangering the health of populations and animals. Since environmental health is not dealt with in the draft law on combating climate change and strengthening resilience to its effects, how can we respond, including by including these risks in the impact assessments of all projects?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u242	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u243	The Ministry of Solidarity and Health is very attentive to the health consequences of exposure to electromagnetic waves, given the constant evolution of communication technologies, in particular the deployment of the 5G which has been the subject of debate. The Ministry has regularly seized ANSES for several years so that it can assess the latest scientific knowledge at the French, European and international levels. To date, and based on available knowledge, there are no proven short-term effects below the exposure limit values recommended by the International Commission for the Protection against Non-Ionizing Radiation. The available knowledge does not indicate long-term effects, whether carcinogenic or not, including in children. The research is to continue and, as such, the ANSES was seized in 2019 by the ministries responsible for health, ecology and economics on the assessment of the health effects associated with the deployment of 5G. It will shortly give its opinion on this subject. Within the framework of the National Health Environment 4 Plan, our efforts – especially financial ones – will continue to monitor and reduce exposures better, thanks to the National Frequency Agency, as well as to inform all the public – the citizens, the elected representatives, of which you are a member, as well as the professionals.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u244	Mr Yannick Haury has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u245	A French 3 Pays-de-la-Loire program was recently devoted to "Health, an environment that hurts". In my constituency of the country of Retz, families are experiencing a dramatic situation in the face of the high number of paediatric cancers. Unfortunately, the investigations conducted by Santé publique France have not been conclusive and the international doctrine – at the present stage of the research – recommended not to pursue them. This decision has legitimately moved the people. Secretary of State, I have two questions to ask you: what means do you intend to allocate to environmental health research, and in particular to cocktail effects? Disease is always a tragedy, but when it affects a child, it's even worse. Do you hear, as proposed in the report of the Committee of Inquiry, putting paediatric cancers at the heart of the next national strategy to combat cancer? As a former mayor, I am interested in the place of local communities in environmental health. Mayors naturally have a role to play, but the scale of intercommunality seems to me to be well suited. These issues require proximity, transparency and the means necessary to exercise this competence. Most communities have an interest in water, soil and air quality, but it should be made a full competence. I therefore encourage the initiative of the Executives who create environmental health delegations. That is why I am committed to proposal No 11 of the report, which makes local health contracts compulsory for IEPs. How will you proceed with this proposal? Would you be in favour of an amendment to this effect within the framework of the 4D law – decentralization, differentiation, deconcentration, decomplexification?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u246	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u247	With regard to paediatric cancers, which are the subject of proposal No 4 of the report, we share your wish to strengthen our capacity to treat and take care of them and the clusters. The 10-year cancer control strategy for the years 2021-2030, unveiled by the President of the Republic on February 4, plans to act to better prevent cancers, especially those related to environmental factors, by reducing our daily exposure to risks. This strategy, which we are leading with the ministry responsible for research, plans to develop methods for the detection and investigation of cancer clusters, including paediatric ones. As far as the territorial dimension is concerned, I do not know whether to create a particular competence: I will simply remind you that tools already exist. Since 2016, the Public Health Code provides for the possibility of establishing regional environmental health plans – EHRPs. About 15 already exist, in Brittany and New Aquitaine in particular, which has led to the development of 500 very concrete actions at the various levels of the communities. For example, more than 240,000 people, including young people, have been made aware of the risks associated with noise and amplified sounds. Regional health agencies are manoeuvring to develop these environmental health actions on the basis of local health contracts. Their second generation focuses on the health-environment dimension, which is to be welcomed, and it will be important to make it even more important.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u248	Mrs Valérie Bazin-Malgras has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u249	The report of the commission of inquiry had the merit of addressing the issue of paediatric cancers. While they are diagnosed in 2500 children each year and cause 500 deaths among them, we cannot resolve to see this scourge develop without action. Cancer is the leading cause of death by disease in children, but funding for their research is largely insufficient: less than 3% of public funding for research is directed towards these cancers. The amount of the missing appropriations is in the order of 15 to 20 million euros per year. It is the responsibility of the State to ensure the fight against this scourge, which upsets too many families in our country. Since the beginning of the legislature, members of the Republican Group have been proposing ways to improve the prevention and management of cancers affecting children. As early as 2018, we introduced several bills in this direction, and every year, as part of our review of the finance bill, we are constantly proposing funding for research on pediatric cancers. Only by providing additional resources to researchers will we be able to better understand and prevent this phenomenon. Mr Secretary of State, does your government really aim to increase the resources devoted to the management and research of paediatric cancers?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u250	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u251	I have just pointed out that the fight against paediatric cancer is an integral part of the 10-year strategy to combat cancer 2021-2030. This includes an important part devoted to research and the increase in the funds allocated to it will also benefit research on paediatric cancers. Its aim is to better prevent cancers, to better identify them, by means of finer detection and investigation methods, and to better identify the clusters of paediatric cancers. On the other hand, we stress the support of parents. You have adopted a bill by Paul Christophe, which is a real step forward because it improves the presence of parents among children with cancer, which plays a major role, as we know, in the chances of healing. Increased resources dedicated to research, better identification of clusters, better support for parents: these are the directions in which the Government's actions with parliamentarians on the issue of paediatric cancer go.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u252	Mr Frédéric Reiss has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u253	Yesterday, as I was preparing for my speech in this debate, my attention was drawn to a title from the regional daily press: "When he became ill with pesticides, he became organic." The article tells how a farmer, now 59 years old, learned at 35 years of age that he had Parkinson's disease, after being accidentally sprayed with pesticides. Today, he impresses neurologists with the energy he deploys to take care of his horses. Apart from this case, which illustrates one of the aspects of this committee of inquiry, I would like to ask you, Mr Secretary of State, two questions on air quality. First of all, let me pay tribute to the pioneers of the association for the monitoring and study of air pollution in Alsace, ASPA, which has enabled accredited associations such as Atmo Grand-Est to take over. We consume 15,000 litres of air a day and we are all aware that air quality is a major issue. Measuring pollutant concentrations in the air and promoting an air-health-climate-energy approach is good, but could we not go further? Certainly, especially by providing good advice to decision-makers, which brings me to my second question. The cost of air pollution has been estimated by the Senate at EUR 100 billion a year, which is enormous. The report rightly shows the limitations of an environmental health policy at the national level. In its proposal No 11, to which I am, like Yannick Haury, very favourable, the Committee of Inquiry advocates making it compulsory for the EPCI to sign local health contracts. These CLSs can address air quality, as the nature and source of pollutants depend on where they are located. These same contracts can also promote short-term food chains or the territory's meshing in health homes. Should we not reason at the level of territorial and rural balance poles – PETR –, territorial coherence schemes – SCOT – or project territories? What do you think, Mr. Secretary of State, is the appropriate scale to implement these CLSs?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u254	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u255	I'll start with your second question. Local health contracts have demonstrated their effectiveness in environmental health. This tool is increasingly being mobilized to engage communities on these issues, particularly with CIPOs. They can even serve as a means of contracting between regional health agencies and communities. However, in our view, they are not intended to be made compulsory. It seems to us better that they retain the necessary flexibility to adapt to the needs, closer to the specificities of each territory. In this respect, the relevant scale is likely to vary. On the issue of air quality, I had the opportunity to provide some answers to President Chassaigne. You are right to stress this issue: it is the world's first environmental health risk, according to the World Health Organization. Every year in France, 48,000 people die prematurely because of their exposure to air pollution. The cost of the health consequences of outdoor air pollution was estimated in 2015 by the Senate at a minimum of 3 billion euros per year. We therefore put in place measures to monitor, better prevent and better inform the public and professionals. Let us recall here the existence of the Observatory for Indoor Air Quality, which improves the knowledge of pollutants present in indoor environments such as schools or offices, a subject that is often unknown. Monitoring of indoor air quality has become mandatory since 1 January 2018 in nurseries and kindergartens and elementary schools and, since 1 January 2020, in colleges, high schools and recreation centres.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u256	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard, a non-attached Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u257	In 2020, according to WHO, overweight and obesity affect more than 2 billion people worldwide. Unfortunately, France is not spared this phenomenon, since the proportion of obese people in the population rose from 5.3 per cent in 1981 to 17 per cent, or more than 8 million people. These figures are as impressive as they are, as obesity is responsible for a sharp increase in cardiovascular disease, diabetes or some cancers. It is therefore urgent to take action. In Béziers, we took this problem with arms-to-body but, as often, the means are lacking. Not everyone has the chance or the opportunity to have access to a specialized obesity centre. The city has therefore put in place, first with the primary health insurance fund – SPAM – and then with the ARS, sports sessions adapted to obese children, which have met with real success, it must be said. As many as 317 overweight children are monitored by municipal health services. There are two sports sessions a week, in partnership with the Sport passions association, as well as free cooking workshops for families. Therapeutic education sessions will be set up, two days a year, for families in difficulty and suffering from these obesity problems. Unfortunately, the convention on workshops of adapted physical activities was unilaterally denounced by the CPAM several months ago on budget matters. The subsidies to organize these sports sessions have declined sharply, resulting in an immediate decrease in the sports offer to overweight children, in violation of all the guidelines for the management of overweight and obesity. Mr Secretary of State, can you give us assurances on the means allocated to the fight against obesity and tell us whether the adapted sports workshops can be strengthened, by providing the health services of the municipalities with adequate subsidies?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u258	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u259	The fight against obesity is a major public health issue and is a matter of increased concern at this time, as we know that people who suffer from obesity are more exposed to the risks of covid-19 and that children, whose sedentary nature generally increases, spend more time in front of the screens and devote less time to physical activities. People suffering from obesity are, in fact, more than 8 million in France. Almost two years ago to the day, the Interministerial Committee on Health established nutrition and physical activity as the Government's priority. The main axes of the roadmap for the management of obesity for the years 2019-2022 were then announced. In order to reduce obesity, especially in its severe forms, this roadmap has made the bet on prevention, which is decisive from an early age. The fight against obesity is therefore one of the Government's priorities. The objective of the program I mentioned is, by 2023, to reduce obesity by 15%, stabilize overweight in adults and reduce overweight and obesity in children and adolescents by 20%. Once again, as the crisis passes through it, these objectives may need further refinement. In any case, they could not be achieved without taking into account the social and territorial inequalities, which played a decisive role. Among people from disadvantaged backgrounds, the prevalence of obesity is two to four times higher than among the more affluent. The Roadmap aims to identify people at risk of obesity and severe obesity more early, to combat sedentary behaviour and to develop healthy sports homes. A target of 500 is set for 2022, while 288 of these structures already offer our fellow citizens adapted physical activities – Olivier Véran and Roxana Maracinanu have recently visited one of them. Finally, combating obesity also means promoting active mobility as much as possible, which refers to the cycling plan, which has benefited from additional resources under the recovery plan.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u260	The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1212.u261	Next sitting, at twenty-one fifteen hours: Debate on the effects of the crisis on the associations in our territories, the support they receive and the conditions for their resumption. The meeting is adjourned.
