ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u1	The next item is the debate on the report of the Joint Joint Committee on the draft law on criminal responsibility and internal security (No. 4703).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u2	Mrs Naïma Moutchou, rapporteur of the Joint Joint Committee, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u3	It is up to me to present to you the terms of the agreement reached by the Joint Joint Committee (JC), which met on 18 November last, on the provisions of Title I of the bill. The discussion was particularly sensitive since, as everyone knows, these provisions relate to the criminal liability of persons who have committed acts of violence and who have been knowingly intoxicated. Our work clarifies multisevere balances. We have acted with the utmost caution, but also, I must say, with the firm determination to correct the shortcomings revealed by the dramatic Sarah Halimi case. The preparation of the Joint Joint Committee was difficult, not because of a refusal on the part of senators or because of partisan considerations, but because, paradoxically, we had our respective investment on the subject. The Law Committee of the National Assembly had devoted to the criminal responsibility of those who had lost all discernment a flash mission, which I had conducted with our colleague Antoine Savignant, at the end of which we had reached common conclusions: we had, in particular, rejected any prospect of judging the "mads" – as they are called by a word too simple – considering that neither justice nor the victims nor society would gain anything from it. This was also the view of the Chancellery. The Senate had also worked with Senator Nathalie Goulet, in particular. However, he favoured options that were radically contrary to ours, such as entrusting the declaration of irresponsibility to the court of judgment and, in the case of crimes, to the popular jury. The orientations of the two assemblies were therefore well thought out and apparently irreconcilable. I do not hide from you that we were about to take note of our disagreement. It took all the energy of the presidents of the two commissions of laws, François-Noël Buffet in the Senate and Yaël Braun-Pivet in the National Assembly, to reconcile positions and reach a compromise, which I will present to you. The latter consists of maintaining the essential mechanism established by the National Assembly, namely, the irresponsibility imposed at the stage of investigation and the creation of autonomous offences to punish voluntary intoxication. However, we open an exception, in a very specific case: when psychiatric expertise is divergent, that is, when at least one expert concludes that discernment should be abolished and another at full responsibility, and when this abolition is, at least partially, the act of the author, it will be up to the trial court – most often the court of assizes and therefore the popular jury – to decide on the course of events, in a preliminary and in camera manner. If the court retains irresponsibility, there will be no criminal trial but a prosecution on the basis of the offences we create; If, on the contrary, the court considers the accused to be responsible for his actions, the trial will be held. These provisions preserve the red lines on both sides and allow agreement to be reached on a subject that has deeply moved the nation. No one would have understood that parliamentarians were separating on a record of failure. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and Dem groups. – Mr Pierre-Yves Bournazel also applauds]] As the other sections of the bill have not raised any difficulties and the Government is proposing amendments of a formal nature, I hope that we will have the opportunity to approve this bill together.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u4	Mr Jean-Michel Mis, rapporteur of the Joint Committee, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u5	We are meeting to adopt the draft law on criminal responsibility and internal security, following the agreement reached in the Joint Joint Committee on 18 November. The frank and constructive exchanges that I had with Senator Loïc Hervé as rapporteur on Titles II, III and IV of the bill have allowed us to arrive at a balanced text that respects the positions of each of the two assemblies. I would also point out that Articles 12 to 20, on which our colleague Jean-François Eliaou was the rapporteur, were agreed, most of the relevant provisions having been adopted in the same way at first reading. Without going into the details of each article, the joint text reached by the Joint Joint Committee preserves the Senate's additions. It also respects the original objectives of the bill, while maintaining intact the provisions voted in the National Assembly. The drafting of Article 7, on video surveillance during police custody, thus incorporates several measures designed to strengthen the right to information and to prohibit the automatic reconciliation, interconnection or linkage of images with other processing of personal data. The use of airborne cameras, framed by sections 8 and 8 bis of the bill, has been doubled by our fellow senators: on the one hand, municipal police will also be able to use these technological tools, in strict compliance with the procedural rules that determine their operating environment; On the other hand, in accordance with the opinion of the Council of State, they may also be used for judicial purposes, under the authority of the judge or prosecutor. This will clarify the regime for the use of drones in the Code of Criminal Procedure, during investigations and instructions by the judicial authority. The success of the Joint Joint Committee depends on our ability to seek compromises, the text of the agreement concluded on 18 November restored a period of two days for the preservation of images recorded by video surveillance cameras in police custody; The term will be extended to seven days when the person in custody requests it. These durations correspond to the position of the National Assembly at first reading, while the Senate had wished to extend them to seven and thirty days. This subject has been the subject of lengthy debate, both in committee and in public sittings, but the lengths proposed by the Senate seemed excessive because they would have exposed the legal framework to major legal frailties in the light of constitutional and treaty principles. On the other hand, a two-day period seems to us both relevant and proportionate, taking into account the rules for the retention of personal data. Finally, I would like to add that the provisions of Article 4 on the suppression of attacks against law enforcement officials and Articles 10 to 11, which strengthen the control of weapons and explosives, have only been subject to minor adjustments during their examination in the Senate. Again, this underscores a real convergence of views between our two assemblies. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] I am pleased that Parliament agrees on an essential bill that will give the French internal security forces the means to effectively protect our fellow citizens, in accordance with the principles laid down by the Constitutional Council.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u6	The next speaker is Mr Custody of the Seals, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u7	I am pleased to be with you following the agreement reached by the Joint Joint Committee, which met last month, on this important text. On 14 April 2021, the Court of Cassation confirmed the declaration of criminal irresponsibility of Ms. Attal-Halimi's murderer, considering that the author had acted under the abolition of his discernment, but at the same time recognized the anti-Semitic nature of the crime. This decision, as you know, has caused a deep and very legitimate feeling of misunderstanding. However, it respected the current state of law: even if a defendant caused himself to lose his discernment, he could not answer to justice for the acts he had committed at that time. This impossibility of distinguishing the origin of the loss of discernment was no longer bearable. That was what the President of the Republic said last April. Thanks to the agreement reached in the Joint Joint Committee, this bill will allow, as we committed ourselves to it, to distinguish between an individual with a psychiatric pathology who deprives him of all free will and the person who owes his madness to the voluntary consumption of psychotropic products. It should be remembered that it was imperative to respect all the precautions, particularly the constitutional ones, required by the delicate evolution of the regime of criminal responsibility. The text of the CMP makes it possible to change the regime of criminal irresponsibility in the most absolute respect of constitutional requirements. The new Article 122-1-1 of the Criminal Code provides that a person who has deliberately intoxicated for the purpose of committing an offence will no longer be entitled to benefit from the regime of criminal irresponsibility if the abolition of his discernment results directly from this consumption intended to give him courage – I should say rather of cowardice. The law has also been amended so that the declaration of criminal irresponsibility, in the exclusive case of divergent opinions of psychiatric experts, is now subject to the judgement of the judges on the merits and not only that of the examining magistrate. It is the Correctional Court or the Assize Court that will decide, at a separate and in camera hearing, on the question of the criminal responsibility of the respondent and his or her ability to answer to the judges for his or her actions. All these provisions respect the red line that we have drawn: we do not judge and we will never judge the fools. The Act will also allow for the prosecution and trial of acts that were not previously sanctioned. Indeed, thanks to the creation of specific autonomous offences, this text fills a major legal gap which the Advocate General of the Court of Cassation had pointed out in her conclusions. These new offences will punish not the act committed in a state of temporary abolition of discernment, but the wrongful consumption of psychotropic substances that preceded it. The CMP has drawn up a limited list of offences liable to be prosecuted on this basis, including intentional homicides, rape, torture and barbarism, violence resulting in death, mutilation or injury resulting in a permanent disability or total incapacity for work (ITT) of more than eight days. These arrangements are in line with the strong will of the Assembly – I would also like to thank all the parliamentarians who have mobilized in this area, in particular the rapporteur, Naïma Moutchou, who has set the course thanks to her flash mission with Antoine Savignat; My thanks go also to Coralie Dubost. The agreement reached in the CMP has validated important measures, such as the creation of specific criminalities aggravating the repression of acts of violence committed against all professions that ensure our daily safety in the public space. The protection of police, gendarmes, Sentinel forces, customs officers, prison officers, municipal police, rural guards and firefighters will be strengthened, as it is no longer tolerable that their commitment to service the community will make them a target. The message is simple: we protect those who protect us. In this area, I would like to stress the unwavering involvement of the rapporteur, Jean-Michel Mis, and Jean Terlier: together, they have worked to clarify the scope of these new offences, not to mention anyone. The bill also includes procedural advances that were sought by judicial actors in situations where offenders refuse to identify. The effectiveness of criminal law requires the effective establishment of a judicial identity: we had a responsibility to strengthen the procedural framework for this identification. This will allow investigators to use duress fingerprinting as part of a balanced system that incorporates enhanced safeguards for minors. From now on, the court improperly seized on the basis of the author's age may detain the adult or minor in order to bring him before the competent court within a very short period of time. The current criminal procedure allows for the release of defendants following the declaration of incompetence of the court: tomorrow, this will no longer be possible. The aim here is to guarantee the effectiveness of the criminal law: we owe it to the victims, of course, but also to the real minors, who will be able to benefit from educational facilities adapted to their age. I am pleased that Parliament, after careful expertise, validated these provisions even before the CMP was held. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the rapporteur, Jean-François Eliaou, who has worked hard to achieve this. Let me turn to the part of the text that concerns the Ministry of the Interior. On behalf of my colleagues Gérald Darmanin and Marlène Schiappa, I would like to congratulate you on your agreement in CMP. Security forces, when on the roads, are increasingly facing the danger of refusing to comply with a warning to stop. The draft law strengthens the protective measures and the regime of penalties applicable in this regard. The same firmness must be put in the fight against motorised rodeos – you know with what determination the Minister of the Interior fights against these dangerous and harmful practices for our citizens. Article 18 of the Bill is intended to facilitate the identification of the perpetrators of such offences and to prevent the return of vehicles. Article 17 also extends the list of road traffic offences that can be found by private guards. Another important step, highlighted by the President of the Republic in his closing speech at the Beauvau de la sécurité, is the strengthening of the operational capacity of the national police: through the creation of an operational reserve, more reservists from civil society will strengthen the work of the police. The bill also complements the means available to law enforcement officials, particularly with regard to the capture of images – this practice, of great operational utility, is at the heart of the action of the security forces. In this regard, we must pay full attention to the right balance between the operational interests of the security forces on the one hand, and the preservation of fundamental rights and freedoms on the other. The Government has taken note of the Constitutional Council's decision on the law on comprehensive security that preserves freedoms and has drawn the consequences: the draft law thus establishes a solid legal framework, allowing the capture of images from video devices installed in aircraft, with or without persons on board; It provides the necessary guarantees, while providing law enforcement with effective tools. The Senate, for its part, has introduced an experiment allowing municipal police to use drones, if all the necessary guarantees are met, and provided that the use is proportionate to the purpose pursued. With regard to the capture of images by airborne equipment for judicial purposes, the Council of State, in its opinion of 12 October, confirmed the need for legislation. It is intended that the text of the CMP provides that the judicial use of such devices for the capture of images in public space may be authorized in the event of a crime or offence punishable by at least three years' imprisonment, in the event of a procedure for the investigation or investigation of the causes of death or disappearance, or in the event of the search for a fugitive. Such captures shall be authorized in advance by the public prosecutor or the investigating judge. In addition, a camera system is provided for in State-owned vehicles, which will be able to record their interventions when an incident occurs or is likely to occur. The text also provides for the possibility of placing video surveillance devices in police custody cells in order to reduce the risk of suicide, self-harm, assault and escape. However, the capture of images in these circumstances cannot be systematic or indefinite. The text resulting from the CMP is balanced, both in terms of the safeguards applicable to the device and in terms of the retention times of the video recordings in terms of their purpose. Another step forward, the Government has sought to strengthen control over the possession of weapons by improving the provisions of the National Register of Prohibitions on the Acquisition and Detention of Weapons (FINIADA) relating to the prevention of the passage of criminals, including by extending the scope of offences to pre-sentence measures and non-final convictions. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups. – MM. Antoine Savignat and Pierre-Yves Bournazel also applaud]] For all these reasons, the Government is in favour of the CMP text, and encourages you to adopt it definitively.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u8	I have received from Mrs Mathilde Panot and from members of the La France group a motion to reject in advance pursuant to Rule 91(5) of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u9	If we have tabled a motion of rejection before, it is because we are firmly opposed to the bill – that was already the case at first reading, and that is still the case with the final text of the CMP. There are several reasons why we reject this bill, which combines disparate and even contradictory issues. The first relates to criminal responsibility. This has been demonstrated: the text assembles articles of circumstance responding to a particular case, and follows a widely commented decision of the Court of Cassation. Yet everyone knows that it is never good to make laws of circumstance, including following a particularly atrocious and diverse fact – in this case, the murder of Mrs. Halimi. I had stressed at first reading that either the articles in question will be inapplicable, as the conditions to be met to characterize the facts are numerous, or they constitute a breach of the principle of criminal irresponsibility for the total abolition of discernment – you boast in fact to create an autonomous offence in order to be able to condemn, despite everything, a person who would have been declared criminally irresponsible. You're on a dangerous slope. Unfortunately, you took no account of the report that Nicole Belloubet, then keeper of the seals, had ordered Philippe Houillon and Dominique Raimbourg; However, it contained many interesting proposals, including regulatory or organizational proposals. Many judges and professional organizations feel that the total alteration or abolition of discernment is rarely pronounced, even when it deserves to be pronounced. The idea of dangerousness so irritates our criminal law that, even when a person has mental disorders – which may not have been sufficiently characterized for a change in discernment to be pronounced – he is sentenced to imprisonment on the grounds that he is dangerous; At least she will be under surveillance, it is said, and possibly cared for from a health point of view. The subject of mental health and offenders suffering from mental disorders deserved further consideration of alternative proposals, as it referred to a crucial problem: the lack of resources in the psychiatric hospital. Consider that 60 per cent of psychiatry beds have been closed in the past 40 years, without the need for increased outpatient follow-up. Psychiatric services are under extreme stress, and their staff feels like a deep pain not having the means to do their job – the friends I count in this sector often testify to this. With regard to psychiatry in prison, I refer you to the opinion that the Comptroller General of Places of Deprivation of Liberty rendered just two years ago, denouncing an extremely problematic situation and a lack of caregivers. That is the case with regard to criminal responsibility. I come to the long-standing issue of drones: you "sold" it to us in the 2021 law for global security that preserves freedoms, but you took a blow from the Constitutional Council, which had largely censored all your provisions. Now you are returning to the burden with new guarantees that are supposed to take into account the remarks of the Constitutional Council. Better than I did, the La Quadrature du Net association has demonstrated, in a long publication, how unconstitutional these new provisions were once again. In the "global security" law, you proposed that the use of drones should be the subject of information on the Ministry of the Interior's website, except where such information was not appropriate – in the context of the fight against terrorism, among other examples. The problem is solved, since there is no longer even planned information on the ministry's website! We are proposed to communicate to us the contingent of drones put into circulation, but without specifying where, when, how, and without setting a limit. The use of this type of technological means is thus not subject to any time limits, nor is it intended to apply a principle of subsidiarity – i.e. whether the same objectives can be achieved by means less intrusive than drones. In many cases, however, these means exist. With regard to the breach of privacy in the context of intrusions into the home, the Global Security Act provided that the images could not be used. This time, it is possible if an offence was committed, but only within 48 hours and only to transmit the images to the prosecutor. You will tell me that it may be less hypocritical than what was said in the "global security" law, but it still does not make a constitutional difference, as the Constitution enshrines the right to privacy. As far as facial recognition is concerned, I've had it myself. I read in the text that facial recognition devices were prohibited on drones; The trick is that nothing forbids them on computers, in the command center that receives the images of the drones in question. You'll tell me I should have looked more closely at it. This is how all this is pernicious: you give yourself a good conscience by prohibiting facial recognition on drones but not on computers that will receive the images. I think it's pretty messy – I can't find another more appropriate term. Our opposition to the use of drones remains full and complete. In fact, it is true with regard to image capture devices in general. AEF info has just published an interview with Mr Guillaume Gormand, who made a scientific inquiry following an order from the national gendarmerie and whose report has just been published. Of the 1939 cases he studied, in the Grenoblais metropolis, in connection with the gendarmes, only 22 were elucidated through video surveillance, i.e. 1.1%. Those interested in this issue were aware of this figure, which had already been given in previous scientific publications. They all indicate, one after the other, that the concrete and objective effectiveness of video surveillance is extremely weak in terms of what human beings, flesh and bone investigators are able to do, who are conducting neighbourhood investigations, that is, their work as investigators of the judicial police. Yes, it is better to prefer human beings, because they are more effective and competent. We are equally opposed to video surveillance in police custody. Already at first reading, we had hunched the reasons why this device was useless: it is decided by the institution and not deployed at the request of the detained person, for a fairly limited duration, renewable only with the permission of the prosecutor, and without the use of sound. In short, one wonders what all this is for, especially when one sees the degradations that are made in the premises in question. Would it be just to reassure yourself, knowing that preventing possible police violence on detainees is not even one of the objectives of the scheme? I now turn to the history of the flat-rate fine for shoplifting. We are told that if a shoplifting is committed for an injury of less than 300 euros, a flat-rate fine of 300 euros can be imposed. Now who are these people who are committing shoplifting worth less than 300 euros? It's a crime of misery, of survival. Until now, they had been brought before a magistrate, a judge who could do the part and avoid deciding on the penalties that would have worsened the situation of these individuals. Indeed, if they shoplift, I doubt that they can afford to pay those 300 euros – if not by committing other offences. Again, you present false good ideas aimed at penalizing more people. Finally, the only thing you have been able to do during the quinquennium that you continue to do is the increase in the scale of penalties, even though it has never been shown to be useful in reducing offences. This is even the opposite, since it has been shown on many occasions that this has no impact. For example, you promise to increase the scale of sentences on refusal to comply, saying, "We protect those who protect us." But you're not protecting them from anything...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u10	You spoke ten minutes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u11	... since the offence has already been committed! The provision therefore has no preventive virtue, and that is indeed the problem of your unthinking, or rather of your safe thinking. That is why we will oppose this text...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u12	That's amazing!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u13	[[Mrs. Danièle Obono and Ms. Elsa Faucillon applaud]] ...and all the measures it entails.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u14	Neither the Commission nor the Government is asking for the floor?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u15	There's nothing to say on the government side! The minister has spoken enough in the gallery!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u16	This is so ridiculous!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u17	In explanation of vote on the motion to reject the motion, the floor is for Mrs Coralie Dubost.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u18	My dear colleague, you are telling us that this is a law of circumstance. But the principle of criminal irresponsibility itself arose from a particular case, the Firmin case, which, in 1794, had aroused a lively popular emotion. The person tried was in a state of dementia, which led the legal, philosophical and political community of the time to reflect on the creation of the principle of criminal irresponsibility. Why could another case, a few centuries later, which also arouses a lively popular emotion and doctrinal, legal, philosophical and political questions, not be able to evolve, to clarify the law in order to have a more adequate justice? That's what we're doing today. It is not a law of circumstance but a collective intelligence, especially when the two houses of Parliament agree on a principle. [[Mr. Ugo Bernalicis and Ms. Danièle Obono ssclaffent]] Then you question all the internal security measures. But say it frankly: say that you do not want more security for the French, that you do not want to solve the problems of this country.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u19	Ah, congratulations! Put it in the report: I say bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u20	You do not want toolboxes that allow law enforcement to move forward and you tell the French that it is impossible to protect them without sitting on their fundamental freedoms. But you know that this is not true and that it is quite possible to allow video surveillance and drones in very precise and highly supervised cases.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u21	And you can't read!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u22	[[Protests on the benches of the FI group]] This allows investigators to move faster in some cases. And how dare you make the French believe that you have to choose between the video surveillance investigation and the neighbourhood investigation? You know very well that both devices intersect and that it solves cases.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u23	We're listening to Mrs. Dubost!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u24	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Because your examples are misleading, biased, truncated, and you do not want, unlike us, to protect the French, we will vote against your motion of rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u25	On the march against science!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u26	Mr Antoine Savignat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u27	With regard to the provisions on the issue of irresponsibility, following the decision in the Sarah Halimi case, I believe that we will be able to emerge from the adoption of this text. Indeed, in the event that such acts are committed again in the future, that a terrorist would find the courage of his cowardice in the consumption of psychotropic drugs to open fire at the exit from a school, which we do not call our wishes, we could provide a criminal response, which was not the case before. Our work as legislator is also to anticipate this type of fact and to draw lessons from past jurisprudence.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u28	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u29	With regard to video surveillance and drones, I feel like I'm reliving the debates we had about ten years ago when video surveillance was appearing. You say that 1.1% of cases were resolved through video surveillance. But how many facts have not been committed as a result of surveillance?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u30	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u31	Wet finger!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u32	How much has crime dropped where the video surveillance was installed? How many groups will not take action during demonstrations because drones will fly over them and they will be sure to get caught?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u33	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u34	[[Applause on committee benches. – Mr. Vincent Thiébaut also applauds]] The cowardice of these people lies in the fact that police officers do not have the tools to respond to them. It is also concerned with the protection of all victims of such acts. For these reasons, of course, we will not vote on this motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u35	Mr Vincent Bru has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u36	This is the strictest right of the opposition to put forward a motion of rejection; We believe, however, that this is inappropriate because we have referred at length to criminal responsibility and internal security, both in the Committee on Laws and in the Chamber, and a compromise has been reached with the Senate in the Joint Joint Committee. We have paid particular attention to the principle that we do not judge fools, which must not be ruled out or weakened. This red line, which we hold, was laid from the beginning by the keeper of the seals. On the other hand, in the case of voluntary poisoning carried out with the aim of committing a serious offence, it seems to us normal to advance the law in this field, and this is the subject of the first two articles. The capture of images made possible by new technologies must provide safeguards for privacy. We also wanted all our law enforcement agencies to be protected by a new offence of voluntary violence against the police. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] All this work of co-construction that has been done by the National Assembly and by the Senate on the basis of the text presented by the Government must not end today with the mere adoption of a motion of rejection before, when the text is expected by our fellow citizens. That is why our group will vote against the motion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u37	Mr Pierre-Yves Bournazel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u38	[[Mr. Ugo Bernalicis exclaimed]] We will vote against this motion of rejection because we want to move forward and we need to implement operational measures immediately. This bill, which has been built for a long time, will be a very useful outcome. I would point out that security is a chain with complementary links, and that for four and a half years we have tried to strengthen each of them. It was we who recruited an additional 10,000 police officers to put more officers on the ground, we who strengthened the work of the municipal police and created a municipal police force in Paris. We have also made an unprecedented effort during this quinquennium to strengthen the means of justice, by increasing its budget by more than 30 per cent. We recruit additional magistrates and clerks.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u39	Of course! That's why they're mobilizing the day after tomorrow!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u40	It was still during this five-year period that we acted on prevention, which was necessary to improve safety. Thus, we have led the reform of the school and supported the community fabric as close as possible to the neighbourhoods facing security problems. [[Applause on committee benches]] You see, we're in balance, we're in the right place: you think we're too safe, but others think we're not safe enough. For my part, I think we represent balance, efficiency and operational responses.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u41	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u42	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u43	In the first sentence of his speech, Mr. Bernalicis indicated that his group had tabled a motion of rejection because he disagreed with the text and was fighting it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u44	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u45	Of course, that's his right. However, this means that he urges us to give our position on the text. Since my group considers that a number of the provisions of this bill, which we voted on at first reading, are in the right direction, we will vote on the text from the CMP. Among the positive points – we will come back to this during the general discussion – are the most important measure of the text: the amendment of Article 122-1 of the Criminal Code, which deals with criminal irresponsibility. Thanks to the contributions of the Senate, the text is balanced; compared to the version adopted at first reading, it is less likely to be inapplicable in certain situations. As you will understand, we will not vote on the motion of rejection because we want to discuss the Senate's additions again and we are in favour of the balance that was found in the CMP.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u46	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u47	In defending the motion to reject earlier, I have run out of time and I have thus missed an important argument that I would like to bring to the attention of my colleagues so that they can determine with full knowledge their vote on this motion. Indeed, with the taking of forced fingerprints for unaccompanied minors, we reach peaks of... I don't know how to say it without being unpleasant! I do not understand how one can claim that it is for his own good that one will force a minor – because that is what we were told during the debate in the Chamber. No, it is not for his own good that a minor is forced to be surrounded by policemen and his thumb or other fingers placed on an ink pad; We're doing it so he can follow his penal curriculum. That is the reality, because if this is the case, there has been a failure to take care of it by the social services supposed to accompany it so that it can fit into our society, so that it can be taken into account, protected and protected. However, as everyone has understood, this is obviously not the purpose of the manoeuvre. So this is one more element – but we had many more in our hands – on which we can rely to oppose this text once again – everything. I would add, in conclusion, that the arguments I have put forward about video surveillance are not exactly mine, but those of scientists. It's fun to be so captivatingly challenging the science and science of the arguments that we bring to this debate – but everyone will take their responsibilities.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u48	In the general debate, Mrs Coralie Dubost has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u49	The issue of accountability and justice, as well as the judicial response, is at the heart of our society's debates and agitates our public opinion enormously. That is entirely legitimate. The text we are debating brings a brick, a fundamental response to a popular emotion that questioned our judicial functioning on the particular subject of criminal responsibility. Mr Keeper of the Seals, the rapporteur, you have already detailed the points of agreement found by our two chambers and it is a great step forward that Parliament as a whole has been able to find an answer to the public on this point. It has been said that we maintain our fundamental principle because we deeply respect this criminal justice as it was constructed: subjective, individualizing and examining the particular situation of each of the authors. If the perpetrator is a madman, he enjoys criminal irresponsibility because the madmen are not judged. This is French criminal law. On the other hand, if the author has voluntarily entered into this position through the use of psychotropic drugs, if he has voluntarily and purposefully chosen this situation, the justice system must be able to provide answers of another kind, and several arrangements have been provided for according to the situation in which he has been placed. Articles 1 and 2 thus make it possible to define new offences and to provide for new processes which will respond to all these situations, in particular the Halimi case. This is therefore a great step forward, and I would like to congratulate you, Mr Keeper of the Seals, the rapporteur, on your work. This progress is in response to an order of the President of the Republic, which also aims, more broadly, at improving our criminal chain and our judicial system. It is only a brick for the great building of the improvement of the functioning of justice. You have considerably increased the budget, Mr. Keeper of the Seals, following on from your predecessor. In total, the justice budget increased by 33%, reaching €8.9 billion in 2022. This was, quite simply, never happened. [[Minister approves]] This progress is being achieved with the contribution of 700 magistrates and 870 clerks, plus 2000 judicial reinforcements. Sites were also equipped with digital devices, as justice was dispossessed in this regard, with 90 sites equipped in 2017 compared to more than 500 today. Similarly, laptops at the disposal of magistrates, which stood at 4000 in 2017, are now 26800. It is clear that the functioning of justice will evolve and will be of better quality with all these tools. On the bottom, during this quinquennium, you brought a considerable brick to consolidate this great house of justice. Finally, as far as internal security is concerned, you have fully explained, Mr rapporteur, that you and your colleague Jean-François Eliaou have strengthened measures that were taken by Minister Gérald Darmanin and his predecessor Christophe Castaner, with an additional EUR 1 billion. It is a permanent reinforcement, whether in terms of heritage, the renovation of police stations, the hiring of more than 10,000 police officers or the fleet of cars, replaced by two thirds. It was never before seen. We have to keep going. To do this, it is not a question of depriving, as has been called for, the police and our internal security forces of the tools they have at their disposal to conduct investigations and ensure the right of our citizens to a peaceful life, but rather of equipping them with the necessary tools and respecting our fundamental rights, such as video surveillance or the capture of images by drones in the context of the maintenance of public order. These measures will make it possible to move forward. In very specific, limited and well-coordinated cases where a minor puts himself in a dangerous situation or endangers others, he must also be able to identify him, and it is therefore normal to move forward on these issues while respecting our fundamental rights. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] In conclusion, this text, which some will designate as a tote, lays beautiful tiles at the end of this quinquennium – tiles that, after great reforms and budget increases, for the interior as well as for justice, complete the scheme. Necessary and balanced, it also responds to requests made by the Constitutional Council throughout the legislature. It is a great step forward for the right to a peaceful life, for a fairer criminal response and for a more peaceful society. The Group of the European People's Party will therefore vote unanimously.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u50	Mr Vincent Bru has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u51	The draft law on criminal responsibility and internal security was very much awaited, given the context surrounding its consideration – I am thinking in particular of the Sarah Halimi case for the part on criminal responsibility and censorship of certain provisions of the "global security" law by the Constitutional Council with regard to measures relating to internal security. As my colleague Blandine Brocard said during the discussion of the text in the House, we must better adapt our criminal response to a number of important issues, but we must also better protect both our citizens and members of the security forces in the context of the difficult action they are taking. It was in this sense that Parliament worked during the parliamentary shuttle, and it was these objectives that enabled the Joint Joint Committee on 18 November to reach agreement on the 25 articles still under discussion. On behalf of our Group, Democratic Movement (MODEM) and Related Democrats, I would like to welcome the progress made in the framework of the CMP. Among the issues that remained under discussion between the two Assemblies was the complex and delicate issue of criminal irresponsibility. Article 1 was a stumbling block that needed to be overcome with precision. Finding a balance was not simple because, for our group, there was a red line not to be crossed: the one that provides that we do not judge the fools – a principle that has been recalled several times by the keeper of the seals. Article 1 provided for the exclusion of criminal irresponsibility in the event of a mental disorder resulting from voluntary intoxication carried out for the purpose of committing an offence. The point that separated the positions of the Senate and the National Assembly concerned the jurisdiction of the court of judgment for the declaration of irresponsibility. In fact, the National Assembly had made it a point of honour that this function should be assigned to the Chamber of Investigation. In this way, we wanted to prevent crazy people from being, for example, at the bar of the court of seats, under the eyes of the public. A compromise has been reached, combining the National Assembly and the Senate. It was thus decided to refer the matter to the competent court of judgment, not to the examining chamber, at the end of a closed hearing in cases where there was hesitation between the abolition or alteration of discernment. This provision is in line with the wishes of Members and the majority not to create a sort of spectacle justice, while ensuring that a trial clearly determines responsibilities. As drafted by the Joint Joint Committee, this will therefore ensure that a trial will take place, which is essential for the victims and their relatives. The bill also provides an appropriate response to the legal vacuum highlighted in the Halimi case. It was, in fact, essential to fill a flaw in our law: the judge's inability to distinguish situations according to the origin of the loss of discernment. As for the internal security component of the bill, it provides additional legal tools for security, while taking into account the Constitutional Council's censorship of certain provisions of the Comprehensive Security Act. I would particularly like to stress in this connection the satisfaction of the Democratic Group with the measures relating to the capture of images by the security forces. Several sections of the bill proposed to empower police and gendarmes to take better advantage of new image capture technologies, but at the same time it was essential to surround them with as many guarantees as possible. This was done within the framework of the Joint Joint Committee, which found a point of agreement on a privacy system. In conclusion, our group believes that the text of the CMP is a good compromise. The process that led to consensus on the criminal irresponsibility aspect has been difficult, as this issue, which is technically and legally complex, is sensitive. However, the solution we have found seems to us to be balanced and up to the challenges. At the same time, the compromises reached on internal security are adapted and reflect the quality of the work of our two assemblies and their willingness to reach an agreement. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem and LaREM groups]] That is why our group is in favour of the text resulting from the work of the Joint Joint Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u52	Mrs Lamia El Aaraje has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u53	This text will, I hope, mark the end of the thousand and a safe laws of this quinquennium, which have absolutely not relieved or improved the working conditions of magistrates and police officers and which have not allowed for the restoration of a readable, effective and fair police-justice continuum. I would like to pay tribute to the work of the justice and police personnel, who work under difficult conditions – this is a gentle euphemism. In total, we have more than a dozen laws dealing with justice, heavy and highly criticized laws, such as the "global security" law, not to mention the programming law announced by the President of the Republic for the first quarter of 2022, while the Parliament will stop sitting in February 2022. You have therefore multiplied the drafts and bills of law on security and justice, so that the executive will begin in the last few months of this quinquennium the Beauvau of security and the general states of justice. Perhaps such consultations would have been more reasonable before the adoption, the vote and the discussion of these laws, but perhaps this should be seen more as a programmatic ambition than a policy in the country's interest. We will therefore close discussions today on a text that deals with both judicial and security provisions. It is paradoxical and strange, when we, the representatives of the nation, are forced by Article 45 of the Constitution! In seeking a certain logic, I imagine that we must see the need to have the late provisions on this subject voted before the end of the quinquennium. You are forcing us to vote in one single vote on two subjects, while we have the right to have a different view on each of them. Sarah Halimi's abominable and barbaric crime caused a certain emotion. Justice considered that he was anti-Semitic but that his author was irresponsible. Article 1 merely enshrines jurisprudence in the law and, in this regard, we can only support it. The other provisions on criminal liability, however, complicate the analysis that can be made of them. The text does not provide guarantees as to the permanence of care required by the mental state of the person declared irresponsible. In the long run, this could endanger criminal irresponsibility. The Socialist groups of the Senate and the National Assembly have made proposals to you to equip this important mechanism of our judicial system with several guarantees and to avoid eroding it. Unsurprisingly, you swept them away with a back of your hand. I would also like to make a reservation on criminal irresponsibility: if the perpetrator has been declared criminally irresponsible, the victims remain victims and, as such, they have the right to a minimum of information from both the judiciary and health authorities. This right is currently not guaranteed and we regret that the text has not made it possible to fill this gap. I turn to the second part of the bill. Let us make it clear that the Socialist groups in the Assembly and in the Senate have supported some of the measures contained therein, in particular those aimed at suppressing attacks against law enforcement officials and strengthening firearms control in order to limit their trafficking. However, we do not adhere to the provisions concerning minors, particularly those concerning the strengthening of identity checks or the flat-rate fine for shoplifting. We also consider that the extension of video surveillance is problematic, since the conditions laid down are not sufficient to guarantee respect for public freedoms. As with article 47 of the Act for comprehensive security of freedoms, articles 8 and 8 bis allow the administrative police and the judicial police to deploy surveillance drones. It must be noted that these articles fail to present the guarantees that had already been lacking in article 47, a weakness which had justified its censorship by the Constitutional Council. We can only doubt – and this is an euphemism – that such a surveillance measure will strengthen the very distended links between law enforcement and our fellow citizens. The Members of the left-wing benches of this House will join forces to refer to the Constitutional Council measures allowing the police to use drones because they do not seem to us to have sufficient guarantees. Ladies and gentlemen, the legislator cannot tolerate the publicity effects or the repercussions of your methods of consultation, especially when it comes to justice or security. I hope that's not your idea of good legislation. For both methodological and substantive reasons, the Socialist and related group will abstain from this text with serious security consequences.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u54	Mr Pierre-Yves Bournazel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u55	We are pleased that the Joint Joint Committee has reached an agreement between Members and Senators. This text provides responses to various commitments made by the President of the Republic. On the one hand, after Sarah Halimi's odious murder and the resulting legal debate, he limits criminal irresponsibility in the event of a mental disorder resulting from the consumption of psychoactive products. On the other hand, it contains several measures designed to better protect those who ensure our safety and respond to the challenges of our time. This bill is the culmination of a long work and many exchanges with all actors in the judiciary. As early as February 2020, Nicole Belloubet, then keeper of the seals, asked for a report on criminal irresponsibility. On April 23, 2021, Philippe Houillon and Dominique Raimbourg gave you the fruit of their work, Mr. Several proposals resulting from this reflection have been incorporated into the bill during the parliamentary shuttle. This text is also the culmination of the flash mission that our colleagues Naïma Moutchou and Antoine Savignant devoted to the application of Article 122-1 of the Penal Code, the conclusions of which were delivered on 30 June last. I would like to commend the quality of their work, a substantial portion of which permeates this bill. The criminal irresponsibility of the alienated is a very old idea. The traces of this are found in Hammourabi's Babylonian code, but also in the Athenian democracy, in Plato's writings on criminal law. If, in general, the seniority of a concept is not proof of its relevance, in this case, this consistency throughout the ages attests to the soundness of the reasoning. The purpose of the bill is very clear. It provides for the exclusion of criminal irresponsibility where the abolition of discernment is the result of the use of psychoactive substances for the purpose of committing a crime or offence. We do not judge the fools, and this text does not go back for a moment on this principle. The bill also improves the safety and security of our fellow citizens by providing more protection to law enforcement and by providing them with additional means to ensure their safety. These new provisions draw lessons from the decision of the Constitutional Council of 20 May 2021. In a democracy, it is essential that political power dialogue, respond, learn, modify and possibly complement the provisions it proposes in the context of public policies. Tomorrow, thanks to this text, refusal to comply will be punished more severely and the confiscation of the vehicle with which the offence was committed will be facilitated. Thanks to this text, we extend the flat-rate fine to single flights in order to better sanction shoplifting flights. With this text, we can better combat urban rodeos, a real scourge for many of our fellow citizens. Thanks to this text, we modernise our law: the use of drones, individual cameras and on-board cameras will now be precisely framed. Finally, through this text, we create a specific crime aimed at punishing more severely the attacks committed against members of the internal security forces, their relatives and those who assist in their missions. This provision, which we fully support, was expected by women and men who work on a daily basis to ensure our safety. In the commission of laws, we have extended the protection afforded by this new offence to customs officers and firefighters. To this unacceptable violence, we are providing a clear response. The impact assessment attached to the bill indicates that approximately 5000 people are sentenced each year for correctional violence committed against a person who is the guardian of public authority. However, the penalties actually imposed are far from the maximum penalties provided for in the texts. Out of 181 convictions, 75 per cent of the sentences were handed down in prison, but the average quantity was only 14.5 months out of 84 possible months. We hope that the creation of this crime will have the desired effect of better protecting those who protect us. We'll take care of it. [[Applause on the banks of the Action ens, LaREM and Dem groups]] The Group of the European People's Party, satisfied with the agreement reached by the Joint Joint Committee, will vote in favour of this text and support you, Mr Keeper of the Seals, in your various steps.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u56	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u57	This bill originated from a case that moved and shocked France: the assassination of Sarah Halimi. As we know, if justice has recognized the anti-Semitic nature of this murder, it has declared the perpetrator criminally irresponsible. In doing so, it has only strictly respected the law, but this verdict has given rise to a feeling of injustice. The voluntary and conscious taking of psychotropic substances, which had led to the alteration of discernment, could indeed be seen as an intention to be declared criminally irresponsible. This feeling of injustice, we meet him in a few other cases – quite rare, it must be recognized – where the perpetrator was not tried because he was declared irresponsible. Of course, there was no question of calling into question the principle enshrined in French law of the criminal irresponsibility of "mads", to use a commonly used term. Moreover, this has never been the intention of the Government or the legislator. Simply put, the best possible balance had to be struck between adherence to that principle and taking into account the consequences of the consumption of psychotropic substances. This creates additional offences to ensure that the accused is held criminally liable for the taking of psychotropic drugs, even if he or she has been declared criminally irresponsible. We are also drawing a narrow path in order to establish a precise link between the consumption of psychotropic substances and the alteration of discernment and to determine whether there has been intentionality. That is the major contribution of the Senate that we support. When the experts having to decide on the psychiatric condition of the accused find it difficult to agree on the finality and totality of the alteration of the judgement, the trial judge will, of course, decide in camera whether or not to continue the proceedings. In these cases, the civil parties and our fellow citizens find it difficult to understand that there is no trial and that everything stops brutally once the irresponsibility is declared. They have a sense of incompleteness. It may not disappear completely, as questions about the characterization of the inherent intentionality of the taking of psychotropic drugs still arise, but the mechanism adopted in the text of the CMP seems to us to be based on a satisfactory balance. Measures relating to juvenile criminal justice and internal security have been added to the text, which has made it difficult to grasp its overall consistency, but we do not have any adversarial criticism of any of these provisions. I will conclude by referring to the use of video surveillance, video protection or aerial surveillance tools in police and gendarmerie investigation procedures. We see, Mr Bernalicis, that in some of them there is an opposition in principle and that all the arguments are good to reject it. For our part, we prefer pragmatism: since these instruments are used in the respect of freedoms and privacy, we consider that there is no reason to deprive ourselves of them. For all these reasons, we will vote in favour of the CMP text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u58	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u59	As a result of the Joint Joint Committee, this text was tabled as a follow-up to a particular event. However, we do not share the idea that the writing of the law must take place in response to particular events, however dramatic they may be. On the one hand, such a way of doing the law helps to weaken the quality of the law, since the effectiveness of the proposed measures is often limited, on the other hand, it often results in a strengthening of the legislative arsenal leading to a reduction in freedoms, on which it is very difficult to return afterwards. Thus, the measures aimed at reforming criminal irresponsibility have not fully convinced us. The murder of Sarah Halimi is a heinous crime, which has rightly moved French and international public opinion. But we do not see how the proposed measures could prevent such a crime from happening again. The report of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Houillon and Raimbourg, commanded by the Government, had explicitly recommended not to touch the law. With regard to article 1, the Council of State had pointed out that: "The exception introduced by the bill, which intends to respond to the emotion aroused in the opinion by various tragic facts, is more than limited in scope, the meeting of the conditions for the exclusion of criminal irresponsibility seems very theoretical [...]. » With regard to article 2, we are concerned that it leads to the imprisonment of persons with severe mental disorders, whereas they must be treated. In its final version, this article provides for sentences of up to 10 years' imprisonment for persons who have been declared criminally irresponsible of the crime for which they are being prosecuted. On the other hand, the monitoring of people with severe psychiatric disorders is not addressed, nor is it concerned with the human and material means of specialized psychiatric services. However, a number of recent cases have shown the lack of follow-up by specialized structures of potentially dangerous individuals due to mental disorders. Thus, once again, this text focuses on post-war repression rather than addressing upstream problems, which would be more effective in preventing such tragedies from arising. In addition, the text reintroduces measures resulting from the Global Security Act in respect of video capture devices, censored by the Constitutional Council for infringement of the right to privacy. These provisions have been partially rewritten and have benefited from additional welcome guarantees, provided by senators in the final version of the text, including the reduction of the retention times for images. However, several remarks made by members of our group during the referral to the Constitutional Council remain valid. Thus, Article 8 lists grounds far too broad to justify the use of drones for surveillance purposes. As a result, drones are likely to become common practice throughout the country. We oppose this generalization. It would at least have been necessary, as we requested, for the prohibition to collect images of homes to be supplemented by an extension to the images of buildings and all private places in order to limit the infringement of the right to privacy. On the other hand, the interior of the homes may in practice be filmed since, although the text provides that the recording will be interrupted in case of visualisation of the home, this measure will most often be inapplicable for technical reasons. We also have concerns about the National Police Operational Reserve, including the carrying of weapons for reservists. The conditions of recruitment and training are not detailed in the law, but referred to a decree, while the carrying of arms clearly requires adequate and thorough training. Finally, on the issue of new offences against the security forces, we recognize the difficulty of the task and share the position of the Council of State: there are already many specific criminalities in the Penal Code relating to violence against the security forces, and all these provisions lack articulation and legibility. Therefore, why play the bid by adding more news? In the end, this text contributes, along with other security texts voted since the beginning of the legislature, to restricting the freedom of citizens for an efficiency that leaves to be desired. As you will have understood, we have many serious reservations about this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u60	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u61	Like the security legislation presented by the Government since the beginning of the quinquennium – this is the eighth of its kind for this year alone – the draft law on criminal responsibility and internal security is a piece of legislation, without any consistency or respect for the most basic principles of criminal law and our republican pact. It begins with a challenge to the principle of criminal irresponsibility of persons suffering from the abolition of discernment when committing an offence, which is justified by the false pretext that the use of narcotic drugs is likely to lead to a delusion in persons without mental disorders. Yet, all the psychiatrists interviewed acknowledged that exotoxic delusional puffs are unusually rare, and all agree that it is impossible to determine what, psychiatric disorders or drug use, prevails in triggering delusional puffs. Moreover, while the explanatory memorandum of the text purports to respond to the emolument aroused by the murder of Sarah Halimi, all the persons interviewed acknowledged that the proposed scheme did not apply to this case. [[Mr. Ugo Bernalicis applauds]] The rapporteur and the Government had tried to make up for the fight against terrorism. Again, however, this is neither useful nor reasonable, as the Government's stated objective is already provided for in positive law. It would have been much more useful for the House and the justice system to tackle the many shortcomings in the management of psychiatric disorders, as we have shown with the many amendments that we have tabled over the course of the readings, which echoed several of the recommendations of the Raimbourg-Houlillon report not to touch on the principle of criminal irresponsibility – a report commissioned by the previous seal keeper and whose successor, currently in office, completely ignored.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u62	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u63	Indeed, the shortage of psychiatrists, child psychiatrists and psychologists is such that the deadlines for the return of reports are excessive, since the courts are forced to resort to the same persons at all times. This deficiency is mainly the result of their insufficient remuneration. Rather than increasing the number of inmates suffering from serious psychiatric disorders, it would have been more appropriate to begin by significantly upgrading the status of caregivers in order to be able to recruit them more easily, and to reopen beds and services in psychiatry, as well as local medical-psychological centres, in an area that has experienced a real bleed in recent decades, from a "serious to catastrophic" situation, as health economists and psychiatry experts have said. It would have been more useful to significantly increase the compensation of judicial experts – rather than to make an insufficient and unequal catch-up at the last minute – and much more useful to the judiciary, Parliament and society to improve the training of these experts and to reform the legislative and regulatory framework of the expertise, as proposed by the Senate's fact-finding mission on the subject. Contrary to what the Government and the rapporteur have stated, there is neither a hole in the law racket nor a problem of leniency on the part of judges vis-à-vis offenders with psychiatric disorders. On the contrary, judges object to the use of article 122-1 of the Criminal Code, for fear of the political reactions that have already been seen. As a result, more than 20 per cent of detainees suffer from serious psychiatric disorders. The Government is also moving backwards from the demands of victim associations, whose main claim is to the consideration given to victims by the judicial institution. In response, the Government would have been better inspired to increase legal aid, create victim status and implement a multidisciplinary support mechanism. Another aberration of this text – do you mind, Minister: the resumption of the liberticide mechanisms sanctioned by the Constitutional Council after the adoption of the previous "global security" law. Generalization of drones and cameras on board, installation of cameras in police cells, increased penalties for attacks on the security forces, extension of the use of the flat-rate fine, especially for the most precarious, forced fingerprinting for minors, there is a real flight forward towards a security state that confuses militia and police, and continues mass surveillance. Recent studies show, however, that these mechanisms are not only useless, but particularly dangerous for rights and freedoms.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u64	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u65	[[Mr. Ugo Bernalicis applauds]] For all these reasons, we maintain our opposition to this text and will vote against it. Go get a chamomile, minister, if it bothers you so much to be on the bench!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u66	Unbelievable! What words do you use?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u67	Is that how you speak in Parliament?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u68	You're not listening to us! If you were a little more respectful of the speakers...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u69	I represent the Government here and I hear that someone is speaking to me differently!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u70	All you have to do is keep your comments for yourself!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u71	And you, keep your rudeness!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u72	Please hand over your mask, Mrs. Obono. In this debate, I invite each of you, whether he is a Member of Parliament or a Minister, to listen to others and to respect them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u73	As she descended from the gallery, Ms. Obono allowed me to say, "If it bothers you to be on the bench..." Everyone heard it! I'm sorry, but she has to speak to me respectfully: I'm asking no more, no less.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u74	How dare you talk about respect when you keep commenting on the speaker in the gallery? You don't care about our interventions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u75	The Republic is you, isn't it?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u76	Come on, calm down!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u77	Yes, calm down, minister, go get a chamomile!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u78	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u79	This reform, originally proposed to restrict cases of criminal irresponsibility, particularly in response to the tragedy of Sarah Halimi's assassination, is in fact very broad. It contains disparate, unreadable provisions, unrelated to each other and for some of the outcomes of the "global security" law, censored by the Constitutional Council. We deplore this mixture of a wide range of subjects, which leads to a reform that lacks overall coherence. With regard to the issue of criminal irresponsibility, the introduction of an emergency mechanism coupled with the creation of new so-called intentional criminal offences seems to us unnecessary, difficult to enforce and dangerous. The exception to criminal irresponsibility is very limited. It is based on the principle that there is a clear intention of the author at the time of his deliberate intoxication, or even a form of premeditation, with the aim of committing or facilitating an offence. The main problem will obviously lie in the proof of this intention. As the Council of State has pointed out in this regard, the meeting of the conditions for the exclusion of criminal irresponsibility seems "very theoretical and the proof of the element of intent extremely difficult to provide in practice. » The very appropriateness of such a derogation appears doubtful. It would be to recognize a fuzzy concept of voluntary madness. However, we consider that, as the report by Messrs. Houillon and Raimbourg of February 2021, that "the abolition of discernment at the time of the act is exclusive of intent within the meaning of criminal law [...] and that it cannot be compromised with this principle without questioning our criminal structure. The original intention cannot be a substitute for subsequent abolition at the time of the facts. It seems impracticable to fix a simple one-sided exception to criminal irresponsibility. The individualization of the sentence must take into account the clinical characteristics of each situation. We are therefore still opposed to the proposed derogation, which will weaken the intentional element of the offence, a fundamental principle of criminal law. I would also like to reiterate here that prison is not a place of care, even if care can be provided, and recall that many studies highlight the inadequacies and inadaptation of the prison environment to the care of mental illness. We therefore believe that the structural reorganization and budgetary upgrading of psychiatry would be a more appropriate and more respectful response to the fundamental principles of our law, but also more effective. With regard to the internal security component, several provisions contain articles of the "global security" law censored by the Constitutional Council. Articles 8 and 8 bis, in particular, are intended to allow airborne image capture devices, claiming to draw the consequences of the remarks made by the Constitutional Council. This stubbornness of the Government in the establishment of increasingly numerous and intrusive monitoring mechanisms calls for further action. The use of airborne cameras has even been extended to municipal police and authorized for judicial purposes, by amendment of the Government in the Senate, without the advice of the Council of State or CNIL, the National Commission on Informatics and Freedoms, without impact assessment and without our assembly having been able to debate it. We reiterate our opposition to the introduction of drone systems and airborne cameras both within the framework of general administrative police missions relevant to public security and for judicial purposes, in view of the real risk to respect for fundamental freedoms. [[Mr. Ugo Bernalicis applauds]] Finally, I should like to deplore the Senate's consistent adoption of section 16, which further stigmatizes unaccompanied minors by allowing, despite their refusal, a record of their fingerprints or palmarians or a photograph to be taken when they are suspected of having committed a crime or an offence punishable by at least three years' imprisonment, five years for minors. This article is part of the climate of constant suspicion about the words of young migrants, first of all seen as migrants and not as children – these two characteristics should encourage us to protect them – which seriously hinders their access to the law. We recall that the best interests of children must always take precedence over all other considerations, and we regret that the Government prefers to leave isolated minors behind rather than remedy the shortcomings of their care in our territory. [[Mr. Ugo Bernalicis and Ms. Lamia El Aaraje and Ms. Danièle Obono applaud]] These are some of the reasons why we should vote against this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u80	Mr Antoine Savignat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u81	A text in response to the shock caused by the abhorrent aggression suffered by Mrs Halimi, a subject that we could not ignore and on which it was necessary to have a debate, but also a text dealing more broadly with internal security and many of the scourges faced by law enforcement officials, as well as elected officials, in their daily fight against crime: these provisions, which, although they may have been more numerous, will contribute to improving the protection of our internal security forces and of all those who, every day, expose themselves to our security are necessary. We cannot tolerate the proliferation of this daily violence against our security forces and against our elected officials – yesterday I had the sadness to learn of the aggression of a mayor in my constituency on the occasion of a rodeo. With a strong legislative arsenal, justice can be done so that these attacks become as soon as possible only bad memories. With regard to the question of responsibility, or, more precisely, irresponsibility, and the debate which arose, beyond the ignoble nature of the facts, from the incomprehension of many of our fellow citizens with regard to the decision rendered, we had to address this subject, but it was essential to do so calmly, coldly, in order not to succumb to emotion, not to act hastily, because it is complex. I believe that at this time, after the two assemblies have been able to reach a decision and the Joint Joint Committee has reached an agreement, we are able to say that this exercise has been successful. As part of the flash mission entrusted to us, we had found, Naïma Moutchou and myself, that there were two schools on this subject: that of the supporters of immobilism and that of the supporters of the global reform. In fact, we had heard in this context, Mr President. Raimbourg and Houillon, who were quoted by all the speakers and who might be better off asking what they think of the text rather than speaking on their behalf.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u82	We were present at their audition!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u83	Between the opinion of the law and that of the doctors, it was necessary to find a compromise, essentially to ensure that the person who voluntarily annihilates his discernment before embarking on a criminal project could never again escape the conviction.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u84	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u85	Let us beware that we have found it and that, in the future, decisions of the court of judgment on the issue of irresponsibility, when the issue of irresponsibility is discussed, will be more understandable and acceptable to victims and to society as a whole. On this subject, there remains a margin of progress in the field of medical care and support for prison staff, all too often confronted with individuals suffering from severe pathologies that they are not able to attend in prison. Nor will we forget the essential role of the expertise and quality of the latter in the management of these files. There will have to be a real urge for think tanks to be created. There are too many schools of thought on the subjects of mental disorders and no good judicial decision will be rendered without clarification and definition of such disorders. The other part of the text relates to the placement in video surveillance of persons in police custody and the use by certain State agencies of airborne cameras and drones, as well as the situation of unaccompanied minors and the main problem of age determination. We had denounced the blatant lack of capacity of the authorities to cope with the growth of violence and the number of criminal acts committed by some young people and the difficulty for all judicial and social actors in assessing their age.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u86	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u87	We therefore welcome the measures giving the judicial police officer the opportunity to carry out or have carried out under his control fingerprinting and palmar operations or photographing of the individual without his consent. Indeed, the fact-finding mission I carried out with Jean-François Eliaou advocated making this fingerprinting compulsory or, failing that, strengthening the sanction of refusal.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u88	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u89	This proposal, contrary to what I have heard, was not intended to bring minors back to the border or to punish them. Its sole objective was to enable them to be followed effectively, to accompany them and to protect them from themselves and from the networks that exploit them. Here too, we could have gone further and agreed to penalise the trafficking of psychotropic drugs in the same way as that of narcotic drugs, in order to always improve the protection of these minors. All State services, all security services stress the urgent need to put an end to such trafficking. It is a pity that we did not seize the opportunity to do so. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – The rapporteur also applauds]] Overall, this text is in the right direction and the discussions have made it possible to further improve it. We will therefore vote for the victims, for the internal security forces and, finally, for those who are subjected to violence on a daily basis, and we hope to see better protection tomorrow through the implementation of these measures.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u90	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u91	I now call the text of the Joint Joint Committee. In accordance with Rule 113(3) of the Rules of Procedure, I shall first call on the House to take a decision on the amendments before me. Amendments Nos. 1 to 4 of the Government are defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u92	I put the bill as a whole to the vote, given the text of the Joint Joint Committee, as amended by the amendments adopted by the House.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u93	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u94	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u95	The next item is the report of the Joint Joint Committee on the proposal for a law establishing the office of principal or principal (No 4688).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u96	Mrs Cécile Rilhac, rapporteur of the Joint Committee, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u97	The text before us today was agreed in the Joint Joint Committee on 16 November. We have produced a historical text, recognizing and valuing the profession of principal or principal. Yes, this text is historic! The last time a text on school principals was discussed in Parliament was in 1989. In adopting the text of the work of the CMP, allow me to thank the senators, in particular Mr Julien Bargeton, rapporteur, and Mr Max Brisson, but also Mr Laurent Lafon, Chairman of the Committee on Culture, Education and Communication of the Senate, and Mrs Nadège Havet and Mrs Sonia de La Provôté, with whom we have had regular and very constructive discussions. I very warmly thank all my colleagues in the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, whatever their political group, who have helped to improve this text, and all the Members of the majority...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u98	And opposition!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u99	...– in particular my colleague Sylvie Charière – who supported me throughout this legislative work so that this text could be completed. Enriched by the parliamentary shuttle, this bill responds directly to the needs of school directors and principals by adapting the legislation to the reality of their missions. Recognition of the missions and responsibilities of directors and managers was necessary. The improvement of their working conditions is an essential point, both for them and for their fellow school teachers, but also for the students they are responsible for in their classrooms and in their schools. So far, few people have known the reality of the profession of principal and principal. From a legal point of view, the title of principal or principal does not exist or have any basis. I have often said this for four years: they have a lot of responsibilities, but they have little decision-making power and little means of action. We are now providing concrete answers to the question of recognition of their profession and responsibilities. This text, which has been a result of a long process of consultation in the field over the past four years, confirms our desire to improve this function and simplify the many administrative tasks that school directors and principals perform on a daily basis. We have thus endorsed the provision of the means necessary for the exercise of their function – material means, digital tools and administrative assistance. Collectively, we wanted to recognize the importance of school directors and principals in our educational policies. We thus strengthen their power of initiative and decision-making, delegating to them, on a proposal from the Senate, the powers of the academic authority through a functional authority, without calling into question the existing hierarchical links. It is very simple: the director pilot and administers the school for which he is responsible; the inspector evaluates the teachers and indicates the educational guidelines in relation to the national educational policies. This delegation of powers eases red tape, allowing the director to endorse the decisions of the board of teachers and the school board. These two bodies, essential to the life of a school, remain the democratic and pedagogical bodies in which decisions are taken to ensure the proper functioning of the school but above all the success, support and follow-up of pupils. Together with the principals, the teaching teams will benefit from greater autonomy to implement both the school project and their classroom projects. Then we give them time. We affirm in this text that directors and directors must have time to carry out all the tasks entrusted to them through educational discharges, which will now be calculated not only on the basis of the number of classes in their schools but also on the specificities of their schools; We also relieve the directors of small schools of complementary educational activities. We ease their tasks by allowing the organization of the elections of representatives of parents of students by electronic vote and by entrusting the academic authorities with the task of drawing up special safety plans (PPMS). The principals will only have to supplement them with the characteristics of the school for which they are responsible. With this text, we support them on a daily basis, creating leadership focal points in each academy and promoting peer-to-peer exchanges. We introduce mandatory training, prior to taking up their duties, whether in office or in office.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u100	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u101	Finally, we equip the function of a specific legal framework, with the conditions for appointment and training of directors now being clarified, and we revalue it by accelerating the career advancement process. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group as well as on the benches of the LR group and on some benches of the Dem group]] I sincerely say this: far beyond political rivalries, the only objective of the text lies in the recognition of a function in its own right, which deserves the full attention of the institution and values those who exercise it. It is not a question of creating a new body or a new grade, but only of improving the working conditions of school directors and principals. This bill has been enriched and improved over the course of the readings, since its drafting, which is the result of the work of the CMP, incorporates both the contributions of the Senate and the many contributions of the Assembly, while retaining the original spirit of this text, which you have widely supported. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I propose that you adopt it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u102	The next speaker is the Minister for National Education, Youth and Sport.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u103	I am very pleased to hear with you the conclusions of the Joint Joint Committee on the proposal for a law establishing the office of principal or principal of a school. It is indeed a historic text that this future Rilhac law, dealing with one of the most essential functions of our school system. I would also like to thank all those who made it possible for us to arrive at this important moment: the rapporteur, of course, but also the members of the House of Commons who worked on this issue. This success is exemplary in many ways: in substance – I will come back – but also in its form, because it is the result of a very long parliamentary work. It has been over two years since Mrs. Rilhac and many others in the field listened, discussed and moved forward step by step. It is exemplary not only by the initial proposal, but also by its shaping, which is a very good illustration of bicameralism: the contribution of both the Assembly and the Senate, and then a demonstration of their ability to agree within the framework of a joint committee. Parliamentary democracy is reflected in this text, of which I have always supported the drafting process, especially since the subject, far from being simple, required a maturation of minds: on this point, mentalities have changed over the last two years, precisely because there has been listening, experimentation and international comparisons. All this leads to a bill that is both balanced and avant-garde, especially as it builds on other measures, sometimes regulatory, that we have taken in the meantime, including in the context of the Grenelle de l'Éducation. The aim is to create a spirit and coherence. A state of mind, because this text makes clear our support for school principals and principals, and more broadly for primary school itself: in the end, this text contributes to the objective that I have always set for it, that is, to improve it continuously, for the benefit of children. Budgetary priorities, strong, emblematic measures, such as classroom duplications, our teaching decisions, are thus embedded in a systemic vision of what is beneficial to students. Consistency, since the text is preceded or accompanied by material measures in favour of directors: annual bonus of 450 euros decided in 2020, renewed for 2021 and 2022; increase of 225 euros in 2022 in the special hardship allowance (ISS), which will have increased by 675 euros in two years, a recognition as important as legitimate; Information technology premium of 176 euros for all staff; Attractiveness premiums at the beginning of a career. In addition, as the rapporteur pointed out, there was improved and accelerated access to the exceptional class. In addition to these physical measures, I repeat, organizational measures have been taken, because the vision of the school we share involves being closer to the reality of the field. The situation of primary schools varies according to their size, but also their geographical and social location; That is why we must be flexible and pragmatistic. This text allows this, as well as the regulatory measures taken recently: I am thinking of improving the discharge system according to the size of the institution, the new pedagogical and organisational discourse that accompanies it, so that the current decisions are taken as close as possible to the field. This requires a responsible person, an inextricable notion of autonomy, pragmatism and public service; school principals must be given responsibilities that go hand in hand with material recognition, but also immaterial – the prestige associated with their function. The legal recognition provided by this bill is an important contribution in this regard. From a legal point of view, the principal was not sitting on much solid – something that citizens, the parents of students, often did not know. From now on, its function will be defined by the Education Code, which will provide the basis for its legitimacy in making decisions on a daily basis. The text therefore has a practical and symbolic virtue, which undoubtedly makes it a milestone in the history of this function, one of the most appreciated of our fellow citizens. As with the head of the secondary school, the director is a central part of the company; This was evident during the first confinement, where he played a major role in ensuring the best possible pedagogical continuity. I repeat, it is he who decides on a daily basis, and I am the first to recognize that it is not easy! He is the one who constantly adapts our policies to the field. It was normal for us to take note of this. Beyond the parliamentarians mentioned at the beginning of this speech, my greeting is therefore addressed to the principals and school principals of France. I would like to tell them that we have taken the road to progress, already marked by measures, some of which I have reminded them: others will follow. We keep our eyes and ears open for further improvements: dialogue with the social partners, with associations, with representatives of the profession, with all those who practice it, but also to study what is best done in Europe and in the rest of the world, so that France is at the forefront in terms of school practice. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] At a time when our open school policy gives us something to contribute to the debate, as we take the Presidency of the Council of the European Union, it is important that we hold a discourse focused on best practice, on the future. This is what this text allows, accompanied, once again, by the measures that are emerging. I invite school teachers to be optimistic about primary school, whose evaluations in CP, CE1 and sixth point to the rebound. They are destined to become one day principal or principal of school: not only is this function very beautiful in itself, because it affects what is most important for us all and for the country, but its attractiveness will be strengthened by its recognition within the law, and I would like to thank you for that.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u104	I have received from Mrs Mathilde Panot and from members of the La France group a motion to reject in advance pursuant to Rule 91(5) of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Michel Larive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u105	Since we have been debating this bill, you continue to contradict me when I say that this legislation will introduce a new statute for school principals, which is very well set out in your speech. It has been more than a year since I pointed out the massive rejection of this measure by the profession: according to various opinion polls, more than 89% of school principals denounce it. It was the President of the Republic who finally gave me reason: on 2 September, in Marseilles, he promised "the school of the future", which presupposes a new status of directors. I listened carefully to his speech: what awaits us, if we do not quickly change course, is an even greater liberalization of the public service of education, starting with the conversion of school principals into human resources directors (HRDs). In the school of the future, it will be possible to derogate from the national school rhythms, the teaching teams, recruited by a director who became head of the school, will combine teaching staff – those of the national education – and not teachers, in particular municipal or departmental employees; and all at once. In short, after the labour code varies from one company to another, President Macron boasts an unequal educational system, different according to the institutions and therefore according to the territories. This text is only another step towards the realization of the neoliberal projects, destructive of the public education service, of Mr. Blanquer and of the President of the Republic. That's another vision we have for school. Contrary to what Mr Blanquer meant in our previous debates on this subject, in September we do not want to abolish the hierarchy in national education. The one required by the first degree already exists: the inspector of national education is the superior of teachers of both schools and directors, themselves teachers of schools. This should not be changed. However, proof if it is your wish to prioritize the school, by providing in Article 1 that the director "has a delegation of competences from the academic authority for the proper functioning of the school that he or she runs", you make him or her the manager of the school. However, the 1989 decree stipulates that the director "represents the institution to the commune and other local authorities". We consider this to be sufficient for him to carry out his tasks. However, from the first paragraph of the explanatory memorandum to the bill, it is regrettable that the Director is "without real decision-making power" and it is suggested that he be "decision-maker in the debates". Your goal is therefore to abolish the collegial operation of primary school! You wish to amend the Education Code so that the principal no longer simply gives his opinion but endorses the decisions of the school board and implements them. [[The rapporteur expressed her disapproval]] Even before this text was voted, you, Minister, put an end to the collegiality of the decision in a document of the Ministry of National Education, Youth and Sports dated July 2, 2021. It states that the directors will now be able to decide on the allocation of one hundred and eight hours. These hours, which are due by the teachers in addition to the 24 hours of compulsory weekly service in front of the pupils, will therefore be distributed without any consultation of the council of teachers. The directors will be able to decide alone on the organisation of the working time of the teachers of the school, their new subordinates. With regard to the remuneration of future school "directors - HRDs", you are considering a specific pay system that will, in fact, create a separate body from that of teachers. Currently, all principals benefit from eight points of new index bonus and additional index bonus points depending on the size of the school. They also receive a special hardship allowance for management, which consists of a major share common to all schools and a variable share related to the size of the school. In total, directors receive an additional gross monthly remuneration of 240-445 euros, which is of course increased in priority education network (REP) and enhanced priority education network (REP+). However, the explanatory memorandum to the draft law mentions an increase in the management allowance from 150 to 300 euros gross per month. According to the CGT Education, this would amount to 50 to 120 euros net per month, which is sadly derisory. We would prefer an index bonus that would be taken into account in the calculation of current pensions. But we understand that after the failure of the recent discussions between Mrs de Montchalin and the unions, there is no question for the presidential majority to consider any increase in the teachers' index point even if, after a drop-off of twenty points in the last forty years, it would deserve to be reassessed. With regard to the appointment of directors, I would like to point out that the director should not be appointed by the academic inspector, as was provided for in the original drafting of the bill. If that were the case, the Director could be removed on the Inspector's own free will, which would be an unacceptable means of pressure. I agree with the trade unions that the current functioning is satisfactory. The Director shall be placed on the fitness list following the opinion of the Departmental Joint Administrative Committee. He then participates in the movement and is assigned according to a number of points accumulated during his career. It is also after the opinion of the joint departmental administrative committee that a director may be withdrawn from his employment. This ensures relative transparency in the allocation of posts, with the control of trade unions. We want to keep it. I would also like to alert you to the legal responsibility that you want to place on the shoulders of school principals. Indeed, I fear that by transferring some of this responsibility to them, the hierarchy of national education may not be able to break away from its own. I regret that legal responsibilities are referred to the regulatory area. This is an important subject which I believe would have deserved a legislative debate among parliamentarians. In summary, this bill does not address the difficulties of school principals identified in the explanatory memorandum. I repeat: creating a position of school principal and establishing more hierarchy at school will not solve problems of administrative overload, of safety management, of access to school, of insufficient discharge time or of too little remuneration for both managers and their colleagues, moreover. In addition, the landfills planned for first reading were abolished, even though they covered only 25 per cent of schools and completely ignored rural directors. However, they could have been included in the law and extended to all schools in the Republic. Those granted by the minister through the circulars are not up to date. As for the replacement positions, which allow directors to take their discharge days, they will never be in sufficient numbers until new, decently paid posts are opened for the competition. A few months before the presidential election, ladies and gentlemen, we see that the school, the working conditions and the remuneration of teachers occupy the public debate. That's a very good thing. Only this proposal is part of a vision of the school modelled on the model of the company I do not want. I prefer to defend the public service of the school and the collegial and democratic functioning of the primary school. In the face of overload of work and lack of resources, the State must take responsibility by increasing landfills,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u106	That's what we do!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u107	[[Ms. Sabine Rubin applauds]] ... including in rural areas, and providing the necessary human and material support. This text and the strategy behind it are in complete contradiction with these ambitions. Like the 4D bill – on differentiation, decentralization, deconcentration and decomplexation – which became 3DS – on differentiation, decentralization, deconcentration and various measures to simplify local public action – it will lead rural territories and neighbourhoods to suffer from liberal policies of the majority, which aim to differentiate access to public services according to the territories. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I propose that you vote on this motion to reject the text of the Joint Joint Committee – first of all because the first parties do not want it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u108	[[Smile]] What a success!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u109	In the explanations of vote on the motion for rejection, the floor is for Mrs Maud Petit.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u110	[[Mr Michel Larive exclaimed]] I do not know whether the approach to school holidays makes certain minds facetious and festive before the hour: this is in any case the explanation that I prefer to retain, Mr Larive, rather than imagining that you have insulted the rigorous and tedious work of our Parliament. You did not participate in the CMP, dear colleague. Yet you have described our work as useless. Even more serious, you feel that there is no need to legislate to improve the working conditions of school principals and to emphasize the importance of upgrading their function. Let us be a little serious, dear colleague: this motion to reject is incomprehensible and unacceptable. [[Applause on several benches of the Dem and LaREM groups]] The role of school principal deserves our full attention, not your contempt. The work of the majority on this issue, in particular that of the rapporteur Cécile Rilhac, allows a real breakthrough for the profession, and you know that. The provisions contained in the text come from listening to the ground: they have been the subject of consultation and co-construction. Our will today is to vote on this text. Yours is to sweep this work away from the back of the vote, which is regrettable. Of course, we will vote against the motion for rejection, because our only intention is to care about the general interest rather than to indulge in unpleasant demagogic calculations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u111	Mr Pierre-Yves Bournazel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u112	You have presented your point of view, Mr. Larive, which we know. However, I would like to answer you.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u113	Of course, of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u114	You say very often that we consider school as a business. This statement is totally false, and denied by our actions. For five years now, we have greatly increased the national education budget, which is the nation's first budget. We have re-aligned the teaching profession, in particular by raising the remuneration; Even if there are still many steps to go, it is we who have started this process, and no one else. We have put equality of opportunity and secularism at the heart of school reform. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] I would like to recall, as I often do, the duplication of classes in REP+ and REP, which consists of giving more to children who have less social and cultural capital. It is a reform launched in 2017, which will actually benefit an entire generation: children attending REP in the 18th arrondissement of Paris, which entered preparatory course (CP) in 2017, now have an average grade 2 (CM2) level that they would not have had without this reform, comparable to that of children from more favoured neighbourhoods such as the 6th, 17th or 16th arrondissement. We have made the school the priority of the present quinquennium and put it at the heart of the Republican pact. We have a solid record and will assume it not only before you today, but also before the French.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u115	Mrs Sylvie Charière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u116	The Group of the European People's Party on the move can only regret this new motion to reject, as it ignores the many advances made in the bill, which I would like to recall. The text allows for the recognition of the duties and responsibilities of school principals, which guarantees their conditions of exercise. This recognition, which is at the heart of the bill we are debating today, is a strong expectation of our school staff. In fact, they have been consulted extensively upstream, so that this bill responds to the reality of their difficulties. We cannot reverse this responsibility. So far, their position has been unclear, unknown and too unrecognized, as many of our fellow citizens thought that school principals already enjoyed full status. Failure to vote on this text would be tantamount to failing to strengthen their power of initiative and decision-making; not to alleviate their bureaucratic workload; not to guarantee them, through landfills, working conditions consistent with all their tasks; not to provide them with initial and continuing training; do not allow municipalities and their groups to provide administrative support to schools. Above all, by rejecting this text, we would not give a precise legal framework to their role and the process of advancement that they could benefit from. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] These advances cannot be ignored: they are essential. They encourage us to continue our investment in education staff – an action that, I know, is at the heart of the concerns of many colleagues in the running Republic Group. For all these reasons, of course, we will vote against the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u117	Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u118	First of all, I would like to say that, as the group La France insoubted has not had a full member within the CMP, it has been difficult for us to speak in this forum. You then say that you have conducted consultations, ladies and gentlemen. You are indeed consulting, but you do not hear! Please be aware that all trade unions are opposed to your text – it appears in the report, Minister – with the exception, to be precise, of 11% of SE-UNSA members – Teachers' Unions – National Union of Autonomous Trade Unions – who see this as a small step forward in recognition but also point out – I will have the opportunity to return – the lack of resources. One does not answer the work overload of school principals by a statute: one answers it by means! [["Oh! » on the benches of the LaREM group]] I am also surprised, at the end of the year, by the aggressiveness of Mrs Maud Petit. It is probably because of the upcoming elections that it is tense; I suggest she relax!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u119	In the general debate, Mr Pierre-Yves Bournazel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u120	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] We are very pleased with the balance that has been struck with senators, on a joint committee, on this important bill that creates the position of principal or principal of school. First of all, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, I would like to thank Mr Cécile Rilhac for his determined commitment. This text is the culmination of a long and decisive work in favour of the general interest. I also have a special thought for the directors and directors of my constituency, with whom I work and who have been able to contribute to the reflection of parliamentarians. The health crisis we are experiencing is very difficult. It has highlighted, more than ever, the crucial role of school directors and principals in our education system. In the front line, they managed the urgency of pedagogical continuity. Their work extended far beyond their usual duties, when they had to coordinate with their colleagues, maintain ties with families and communities, organize the school remotely, and then ensure that schools were opened to avoid dropping out of school. In the face of trials, they are a solid base that can be relied upon. To say that school directors and principals have a lot of responsibilities is an understatement: the management of a school is a full-time commitment. For several years now, they have faced a proliferation of responsibilities. I am thinking of the development of security plans, a task that has increased with the increase in terrorist risk. I am also thinking of the proactive policy in favour of inclusive school, which involves new relationships with families, the teaching team and the localized inclusive support hubs, as well as an important role in linking with the academy inspector. However, the vast majority of school principals are teachers who run an institution in addition to their teaching responsibilities, without real decision-making power. In order to be able to carry out their tasks properly, they lack time and adequate resources, on the one hand, and a function recognized as such, on the other. This situation naturally causes tensions, a feeling of impotence and sometimes weariness, to such an extent that it has become difficult to attract younger generations: nearly 4000 posts would thus be vacant. School has been a top priority for us since the beginning of the quinquennium. This priority has resulted in far-reaching reforms: the doubling of primary school classes, the upgrading of teachers' salaries, the reform of the baccalaureate and guidance. Since 2017, under the leadership of Jean-Michel Blanquer, the Government and the majority have also committed themselves to offering greater recognition and increased financial, human and material resources to heads of institutions. I am thinking in particular of extending an additional day of discharge to all school principals and of aligning the system of discharges of elementary schools with that of nursery schools. I am also thinking of the introduction of a new system of support for school principals, or the strengthening of the teaching pilot role of the school principal. Finally, I am thinking of the payment of a re-entry premium of 450 euros in February 2021. With this text, it is necessary to go even further by valuing the very meaning of their role. This bill is in line with this by affirming the decision-making status of the school principal both in terms of teaching and in terms of daily life. This bill is based on very concrete field findings in order to provide appropriate responses to the problems of school principals in the interests of children, their future and their development. It was therefore essential to include in the marble of the law the tasks assigned to the function, in order to legitimize the status of school directors and principals to their teaching teams and to the parents of pupils of whom they are the first contact. The Group of the European People's Party believes that this bill is in the right direction. It is historic because it finally values the status of school principal and gives them solid prior training. Pillars of national education, they ensure the well-being of all and the success of everyone. It was therefore important for the law to give them greater legitimacy, commensurate with their tasks. [[Mrs Marguerite Deprez-Audebert and Mr Vincent Bru applaud]] For four and a half years, we have been working for equal opportunities and secularism at the heart of the school. These important reforms, which are essential even for the future of our children, have been carried out in a constructive spirit. You've always had our confidence, Minister. We will vote on this bill from our colleague Cécile Rilhac with great determination.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u121	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u122	This bill has allowed us to pay real attention to the situation of school directors and principals, who are indispensable links in our education system because they unite the various members of a teaching team. I want to pay tribute once again to the important, diverse and time-consuming work that each of them is doing. In addition to the significant progress that he understands, this text will have brought to the fore the heavy daily tasks of our directors and the cruel lack of time for their profession, as well as recognition. During the examination of the law for a school of trust, deputies from all the benches had asked for a genuine recognition of this function, accompanied by the corresponding means. I would therefore like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Minister, for giving us the opportunity to discuss this important subject both for the directors and for the future of the school of the Republic. You know the constant commitment of our colleague Béatrice Descamps on this subject. The agreement reached between the Senate and our House has, after a year of work, achieved a fair balance, and we can only welcome this cooperation between the two chambers of Parliament. It was important to recognize, through this bill, the special place of school directors and principals. It was also essential to provide better support for their functions, while specifying the framework of their missions. The concept of functional authority strikes a fair balance between the need to recognize the status of school principal and the maintenance of the principle that he remains a teacher in the same way as his colleagues. If this text rightly recognizes the special status of our principals, we must not forget that they are above all seeking more favourable conditions for the proper exercise of their mission. On the issue of compensation and landfills, I have no doubt, minister, that you will remain attentive to the ground so as not to lose the benefits of a situation that remains fragile. It should be noted that school principals want to be given more time to carry out the tasks essential to the pilotage of their school, to the benefit of the students' success. These time savings can be conceived in two ways: either by increasing educational discharges or by providing administrative assistance. It is to be welcomed that an article provides for the provision of special resources to schools that would need them most, while at the same time stressing, of course, that all directors need resources, whether their schools are large or small or wherever they are located. I therefore welcome the balance reached at the CMP on Article 2a, which takes up a proposal which we have defended by way of an amendment. It now guarantees that administrative assistance to the Director will be provided by the State when necessary, while allowing communities to continue to provide significant material assistance. This measure was essential in order not to create disparities between the municipalities in a position to finance the necessary investments and those which do not have the possibility of doing so or more. Regrettably, however, the fact that the concept of experimentation could not have been incorporated into the text, since it would probably have allowed many particular situations to be taken into account in a more detailed way. Finally, it was necessary to ask the question of the place of the persons acting as directors. The Senate has indeed given the opportunity to directors acting in office to be titularized after a year of exercise. This is an important recognition for those who, in small communes in particular, find themselves directly occupying a position of responsibility. I hope that this measure will allow teachers who dedicate themselves to their schools to keep their leadership, without competition, the following year. [[MM. Maxime Minot and Vincent Bru and Mrs Maud Petit applaud]] Thus, our colleague Cécile Rilhac's proposal, enriched by our debates and those of our honourable senators, seems to us to be going in the right direction overall. As a result, IDU and independent Members will vote in favour of this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u123	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u124	The bill that we are about to vote on has changed a lot since it was introduced. This proves the difficulties that exist in legislating on school principals, due in particular to old tensions on this subject. It is the translation, also and above all, of the complex, sometimes painful daily life, of these women and men who are dedicated to their profession and to public service. Expectations about this text are strong, up to their ill-being. The long-standing difficulties expressed by school principals have been exacerbated by the health crisis. The fifth wave, which puts schools at the heart of the concerns, will accentuate this widespread exhaustion with changes in health protocols, the accumulation of administrative demands and increasingly difficult relationships with parents. Let us recognize some progress, however, since Christine Renon's dramatic suicide. I am thinking in particular of the sustainability of the start-up premium. But much remains to be done to improve daily life and to respond to ill-being and, more broadly, to the crisis of vocation of the profession. At the end of the examination, we wonder: will this text help to remedy it? In this regard, the Freedom and Territory Group continues to express a number of reservations. The first concerns the message sent to the educational community. With this text you have reopened an old, sensitive debate: that of a hierarchical status for school principals and principals. Exist the initial proposal to create a "functional job": the text as it appears from the Joint Joint Committee maintains the concept introduced by the Senate of "functional authority". This drafting necessarily rekindles the concerns that sooner or later a hierarchical status might occur, at the risk of no longer considering the director as a peer among the peers. However, the Government's consultation confirmed the preference of school principals for teaching to the detriment of administrative and logistical tasks. What drives them is the collective follow-up of students, teamwork and the development of support mechanisms. That is why they fear the idea of being given hierarchical status, which would make them belong to a different administrative body than that of teachers, worse, would keep them away from their peers, to the detriment of team coherence. This concern could have been alleviated, but the Senate has removed the clarification adopted here at first reading that the director has no hierarchical authority over his teachers. We note that the CMP did not consider it appropriate to restore it. As I said, it is above all a question of a message sent to the educational community as a whole. However, these elements were adopted even though the President of the Republic announced in Marseilles his wish to experiment with the freedom of choice of teachers by the directors as early as the fall of 2022 in some fifty schools in the city. What message do we send? The second reservation concerns the means available to school principals. It would be wrong to think that the only relevant issue is the creation of a hierarchical status, because the real need for managers is for more discharge time and more human resources. The text proposes positive measures, which should be welcomed: the creation of a reference for example. The subject of landfills and the reclamation of compensation are referred to decrees, but this is a first step. The main issue remains administrative assistance and the secretariat, which is too often absent. The compromise reached in the Joint Joint Committee does not remove the concerns. Of course, it is clearer on the distribution between the State and the communes, in order to avoid any risk of transfer of burdens to the detriment of the communities, but it only provides for one possibility, although it would probably have been necessary to provide for an obligation for the State to make administrative assistance available, while at the same time leaving it possible for the communes to do so. There is a great risk of a status quo in this area. Finally, I stress the question of the lack of attractiveness, which is not resolved. It is a re-evaluation of the teaching profession as a whole that is necessary to respond to the crisis of vocations and to the deterioration of working conditions. As you will understand, we have some reservations about this text. We have also noted some progress. So we will abstain.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u125	Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u126	We find ourselves here for the reading of the Joint Joint Committee's conclusions on a proposal for a law intended to provide solutions to the situation of school principals. This situation, what is it? Christine Renon's suicide in 2019 brought it to light: the exhaustion of a whole profession in the face of the heaviness of administrative tasks that your perpetual evaluation policy and your ever-increasing injunctions continue to aggravate, for lack of sufficient discharges. I myself had the opportunity to hear the poignant testimony of a school principal of SE-UNSA, moved by the simple evocation of the tasks that he has to carry out on a daily basis: in the same day, she is both teacher, administrative secretary, standardist, building manager, pedagogical coordinator, social worker, nurse sometimes. It manages the canteen, relations with local authorities, the implementation of the protocols waltz and I pass it. Unfortunately, this text, although based on a shared diagnosis, does not respond in any way to the problems raised or to the grievances of the persons concerned. According to the study carried out by your ministry itself, in November 2019, the wishes of the directors and directors are quite simple: more discharge for 36% of them, simplification of administrative tasks and administrative assistance. But their legitimate demands were not heard. Thus, the assurance of an additional discharge, the only part of your text making consensus within the educational community, has been lost in the meandering of financial arbitrations and parliamentary blockages. The compulsory discharges from eight classes: instead, a vague reference, in Article 2, to the Academic Director of the National Education Services (DASEN), who, for lack of adequate means and replacements, will not be able to grant much. As for administrative and material assistance, the wording of Article 2a is so blurred that it does not involve anything or anyone. Of course, there are some trade unions that see a form of recognition in decision-making autonomy, allowing the validation procedures to be speeded up. But, like all the others, these unions also denounce, and above all, the blatant lack of resources granted, a problem that you carefully avoid addressing. This leads me to a word about compensation, specifically the management allowance in section 2. I have to admit, it's a rich idea; and for proof, it already exists! It would have been wiser to propose an index bonus. Minister, the rapporteur, just as we will not do an inclusive low-cost school, so we will not solve the problem of school principals without additional resources. Their situation will not be resolved by increasing their tasks; Because yes, this text creates new missions for them,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u127	No, you don't understand!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u128	... training, now entrusted to the pedagogical advisers, or coordination, still under the responsibility of the inspectors of national education.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u129	Not at all!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u130	It's still your famous "doing more with less". Finally, to think that this is only a status problem – forgiveness, the term has been modestly eluded – that it is only a question of creating a new "functional authority", is hypocrisy. More precisely, it is the symptom of your neoliberal vision of school, reduced to a company, where the director "with this functional authority" would act as manager. As you know, this request is not that of the educational community. That's why you're struggling yourself to take on this managerial becoming of our school. Thus, between the shuttles with the Senate and the amendments of the majority, you continue to contort; Thus, the Senate – no more than you, the rapporteur – has not reaffirmed that the director is not the superior of the teachers; Thus, the delegation of competences of the academic authority entrusted to the directors converts them into managers in their schools. [[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] In reality, this bill is in line with the recommendations of the Grenelle de l'Éducation, whose recommendations had at least the merit of frankness: to create a director's status by giving them decision-making and functional authority and to make them an official to the leadership assumed, installed in a management culture. This vision reaches its climax in the fiances of the Head of State. Last September, in Marseille, he intended no less than to make schools in this city a laboratory worthy of Dr. Frankenstein's: recruitment of teams by classified ads passed by the directors who became heads of establishments; Confusion between school and out-of-school; departure from the national school rhythms – I'm moving on, and the best. Far from allowing school directors and principals to better carry out their essential tasks, in its purpose and principles, this bill makes the school the antechamber of the company. The La France insoumise group will vote against the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u131	Mrs Lamia El Aaraje has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u132	The school is the temple of the Republic. The school is a public service, the heritage of those who do not have it and who must accompany all our children to allow them to enjoy the same opportunities, regardless of their starting conditions in life. The school must be the bulwark against social reproduction. The school must be the bulwark against the territorial assignment. The school must carry our vision of what republican equality should be, in accordance with the motto of our Republic. To enable this republican project, and to accompany our children, the staff of our schools work daily to develop and build them as citizens. I want to thank the educational and supervisory staff of schools, who have been abandoned and abandoned for five years by the majority who have only to make increasing resignations within the teaching profession; which has nothing but to do with the considerable lack of resources granted to the school; which has nothing but to do with the difficulties claimed by the principals of school – lack of administrative and material assistance, of training, of discharge time to reconcile teaching and management missions. The hopes of school principals were strong: an increase in discharge time, a simplification of tasks, often time-consuming, human assistance in the management of missions and an upgrading of their profession. But you didn't listen to their demands. Of course, the draft law contains some progress, such as the introduction of an annual point on the effectiveness of the use of landfills, as well as an obligation to propose a specific training offer every five years. But, it must be said, it does not provide satisfactory answers on two crucial points: landfills and administrative and material assistance to directors and directors. The final version of the text continues to broaden the scope of their missions by giving them a training role, while the observation of their overload of work was unanimous. What will emerge from the proposed law is the red line crossed by the introduction of functional authority, imposed by the right and the majority, which now join on many points to finally merge.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u133	The good joke!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u134	I fully agree with what my Socialist colleagues have said: while we have been told and repeated that functional authority is not synonymous with hierarchical authority, ambiguity remains, in particular, because of the refusal to state this clarification clearly in the text. Ladies and gentlemen, let me remind you that the directors and the directors are the vectors for ensuring the proper functioning of the establishments; They defend the power to act in a spirit of collegiality and responsibility. Why so much insist on the inclusion in the law of any link of subordination or hierarchy, even in disguise? This provision may ultimately be a source of unnecessary tension between teachers, for whom the collegial relationship remains founded. The Socialist and related group had asked – in vain – for its abolition, as well as for the inclusion in the law of the absence of a hierarchical link between directors, directors and teachers. In addition, there is a concern that managers and managers may end up carrying out additional missions related to training, coordination or inclusion, with objectives to be achieved. This must continue to be the result of a fluid dialogue between administrative authorities, teams and families. Under no circumstances can the school become a company subject to the laws of the market and profitability. Minister, the liberal school that you have been trying to build for five years, inspired by the business world – you don't hide it –, unlike the essence of the school and the antipodes of the Republican school, gnaws the strength of this public service. For all these reasons, the Socialist and Related Group will vote against the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u135	Mrs Sylvie Charière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u136	First of all, I would like to thank Cécile Rilhac, who has had the initiative of this bill and has been defending the text since its inception. I welcome her tenacity: since 2018, the rapporteur has been working tirelessly on this subject. I would also like to pay tribute to my colleagues in the La République Group on the move. Many – sometimes themselves former school principals – have invested heavily in enabling the bill to come to fruition: I thank them for that. The investment of parliamentarians is complementary to that of the Ministry of National Education, Youth and Sports. Minister, you have mentioned on many occasions the difficulties faced by school principals. You have repeatedly expressed your willingness to improve their daily lives on a sustainable basis. Moreover, the Grenelle de l'Éducation has already made it possible to put in place strong measures: a bonus of 450 euros for all school principals and an improvement of the discharge regime which already covers 40% of directors. But the bill wants to go even further. Today's vote is the culmination of a long work of parliamentarians begun in 2019 with the launch of a consultation following a tragic event that marked each of us. This consultation was a great success and led to the emergence of three central requests from school principals, who are our guideline: the need to reduce their workload; the need for human and material reinforcements; the desire to benefit from more solid training. Many representatives of the profession have expressed their support to us, and yet recently they have told us how much recognition is expected. Indeed, the school principal's place in our public policies is central. He must ensure the proper functioning of his school, the relationship with the parents of the pupils, the coordination between the teachers, the relations with the inspector of national education and with the municipality. In short, everything about his place of business. Although he was at the centre of the education system, the principal finally had little room for manoeuvre. To create this function is to recognize its role and importance. That is the whole meaning of the bill that we will have the honour of voting today. If it is essential to make this profession attractive again, it is also, let us not forget, because each year we encounter difficulties in finding teachers who want to be in charge of management. Our work has made progress on this point. We have obtained that three years of seniority in a teaching position are required to be on the aptitude list, compared to five years in the first reading. The Senate has completed this step by proposing that one year as principal also allow for inclusion on the aptitude list. Candidates will have to have completed training, which will ensure a specific knowledge of the director's duties and a training offer will have to be offered to them regularly throughout their careers and, mandatoryly, every five years. Our work and our discussions have, I hope, made it possible to clarify and reassure ourselves that we want to create a true role as school principal without disrupting the unique organisation of our schools: we do not create a hierarchy within them, and thus maintain the fundamental balance that exists on this point. The wording of article 2, paragraph 7, confirms a strong position regarding the discharges of school principals. The discharge system must reflect the diversity of schools; it must take into account the specificities and the number of classes. Whether it is rural communes, priority districts of city politics, major cities or overseas departments, all schools in France are different. There are also geographical disparities in the care of children with specific needs or forms of organization specific to each institution. The bill also points to a major issue that is an important concern of school principals: the need for administrative assistance. This text is a first step. I hope that the State, as well as the municipalities and their groups, will be able to participate in the implementation of this aid, which is the first demand of the principals. That is why we wanted to restore the possibility for the municipalities to participate. Not to allow them to do it tomorrow is to go back. As we know, many municipalities are already helping the directors. I hope that many of them will take advantage of this opportunity in the future. It is well understood that in schools with a plethora of staff, the director struggles to carry out his duties as a teacher pilot. Similarly, the proposed law states that the principal must have the digital means necessary for the performance of his or her duties. In fact, more and more schools are benefiting from digital work spaces, which helps to ease the management of the school. Finally, the bill aims to give the school principal more autonomy. By receiving a delegation of powers from the academic authority, he may take decisions without referring them to the inspector of national education. He may also, after consulting the Council of Teachers, undertake specific training activities at his school. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] The "La République en marche" group welcomes the outcome of this essential text and the collective work of MPs and senators, which has enabled us to find answers to a central issue for today's and tomorrow's school: to strengthen the leadership and decision-making capacities of directors, to recognize their function and thus to give them greater autonomy in accordance with the regulatory framework.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u137	Mr Maxime Minot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u138	Fight against communalism, against fake news, against wokism, against self-absorbing; return to merit, in the sense of effort, to respect for the institution and those who serve it; developing the tolerance, civicism and love of our beautiful country: the challenges facing the school of the Republic are numerous. More than ever, it must be a reference and firmly hold the course of knowledge, reason and humanistic values that we share. In this context, it must be able to rely on a strong organization. This bill, which is nearing the end of its legislative term, is undeniably contributing to this. Principals are essential to the proper functioning of schools. Yet the lack of legal status is now causing many difficulties, while the scope of their tasks is only increasing. We therefore had to act against the current status quo to add to the school an efficient working system that strengthens community management adapted to the characteristics of each school. Thus, our group voted in favour of the text which was subsequently agreed in the Joint Joint Committee on 16 November. I would also like to acknowledge the work of the rapporteur and our colleagues in the Senate, who have been able to propose useful amendments. By allowing recognition of the role of school principals through a "functional authority" – and not hierarchical – – the text is intended to facilitate the life of the school on a daily basis. As we know, he is very much expected by the main interested parties. It must address three main priorities. First priority: to save time. Thus, the law recognizes, for the first time in the law, the principle of discharge time to enable directors to carry out all their tasks. Moreover, the rector or DASEN will have to present an annual review of the use of landfills and their reasons: this provision introduced by the Senate has been rightly maintained. The bill also provides for the discharge of school principals from a number of tasks, such as the preparation of the school safety plan, which took a long time. In addition, the school principal will no longer participate in supplementary educational activities, unless he or she is a volunteer. Second priority: training on duration. It will be effective not only from the initial stage of training for future teachers, but also before taking up their post as director and then throughout their careers. The text also provides for the establishment in each department of a school management focal point whose role is to support the directors and answer their questions with a goal: to ensure that they do not feel alone. Third priority: more resources. In this regard, article 2 bis reflects the satisfaction of our shared objective of recognizing the means that managers need. This article was the most debated, and I admit that I have reservations about the risk of a breach of equality concerning the possibility for the municipalities to propose other means, this time material, necessary for the exercise of the director's duties. There is a clear picture of the disparities between the municipalities that will be able to do so and the others. Local authorities are, after the State, the first financier of education expenditure. In the first degree, the municipalities and their groups participate at the level of 33 per cent and this financial contribution is essential for the proper functioning of our primary schools. Article 2a, as drafted by the Joint Joint Committee, avoids any risk of the transfer of burdens between the State and the territorial authorities, since the assistance of the municipalities is limited to material assistance. In the field of education, the sharing of competences between the State and local and regional authorities is thus respected. The State is responsible for educational policy, including the monitoring of pupils and the relationship with families; It is therefore his responsibility to provide administrative assistance. The municipalities, on the other hand, are responsible for the maintenance and operation of the school, and therefore for material assistance. [[Applause on many benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] The parliamentary shuttle, therefore, has done its job, and I note with satisfaction that you have followed certain directions of our colleagues in the Senate, which has led to a salutary agreement. Thus, the Republicans Group will vote for this necessary bill, which has the merit of clarifying the legal status of school principals, which will allow them to exercise their functions more calmly in the future.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u139	Mrs Maud Petit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u140	We are coming to the end of the parliamentary process on the bill to create the position of principal or principal. I am pleased that our two assemblies have managed to agree on a common text. Here we are in the last few months of the legislature: the constant work we have done over the past five years to improve education is bearing fruit, and this bill is an essential complement to our work. As we know, school principals do, at the discretion of their various missions, a fundamental work for the proper functioning of our schools. I would also like to pay tribute to their involvement and commitment to our children. It must be noted that their function is not valued as it should be, whether in terms of administrative support, salary compensation or recognition. With this text, we want to meet their expectations: by creating a specific status as school principal, we give recognition to the work they do. Such a statute will also help to relieve them as their tasks multiply, in particular by providing them with a teaching discharge and reducing their responsibilities with regard to the special safety plan (PPMS). It will also help to strengthen the recognition of school principals, who will be able to benefit from a delegation of academic authority competences, a specific management allowance and accelerated promotion. The provisions of the text gave rise to intense exchanges within the two chambers. The various readings have made it possible to move forward on many subjects, not only with regard to the concept of functional authority, which is a real contribution, but also with regard to continuing training, which is being strengthened. If certain points remain outstanding at the end of the second reading, I would like to welcome the spirit of compromise that guided our discussions in the Joint Joint Committee and allowed us to arrive at a common text. Indeed, with regard to the three articles that remained under discussion, the positions of our two assemblies remained conciliatable. The CMP has thus been an opportunity to retain various provisions added by the Senate. One of them, introduced at second reading, concerns the inclusion on the list of teachers who have worked as principals for one year. This option complements the existing system, which made registration conditional on having completed three years of teaching, thus making it possible to make use of the experience already acquired by some teachers. Similarly, the possibility of appointing teachers who are not on the aptitude list, in cases where jobs as school principal are vacant, has been maintained. While many job vacancies are recorded, it is indeed necessary for voluntary teachers to be able to apply for this position in the current year. We are also in favour of dialogue with the academic inspection, but we are pleased that the obligation to hold it "every two years" has been removed: this makes it possible not to rigidize the system. As such, we regret that the obligation to offer a training offer has been subject to a strict five-year deadline. With regard to the points put forward by the House, we particularly welcome the abolition of certification training for school principals who receive a complete discharge of education. This was indeed a red line for Members, since such a provision introduced a distinction between directors. Similarly, we considered it necessary to delete the reference to compliance with the "national policy guidelines" with regard to the training measures proposed by the principals, since they are already in line with national education. Finally, the last point of divergence was in article 2 bis: it related to the role of the municipalities and the State in providing administrative and material assistance. The article in question gave rise to a lively debate on the role of communities, which led to a position that everyone – I believe – can satisfy. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group and on many benches of the LaREM group]] Once again, our two chambers have managed to converge their visions in order to arrive at a balanced text which will, I am convinced, contribute to improving the conditions for the practice of principals and to re-establishing this essential profession. Thanks to this decision, we allow the school of the Republic to cultivate and encourage, in the best conditions, the talents of tomorrow.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u141	On the whole of the bill, I have a request for a public vote before the La République on the move. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u142	This bill has given rise to many hours of debate, and rightly so, first because it was tabled after the ministry's consultation following Christine Renon's suicide in Pantin. Anyone interested in the daily lives of school principals and principals can regularly hear how the accumulation of tasks makes them lose the thread of their mission, whose very heart becomes impossible to identify: they live it and say it daily. Their workload has increased in particular as a result of the implementation of the 2005 Law on Equal Rights and Opportunities, Participation and Citizenship of Persons with Disabilities; They are committed to carrying out the corresponding tasks related to inclusive school, but this is often a puzzle for them. In addition, in the last two years, the security protocols have increased and the health protocols have increased. However, their compensation has not been increased for many years. We therefore measure the importance of significantly improving the working conditions of school principals and principals. While the debate on the subject should rise, I note that the issue of school is often dealt with, both in the media and in the political sphere, at the prism of the themes that are least essential to its proper functioning. The national novel, La Marseillaise, the mothers who wear the veil or uniform are thus extensively commented on, while the lack of adults in schools, the crisis of organized vocation of teachers or the progressive asphyxiation of priority education are only very little addressed. However, this bill does not meet the requirements of school principals and principals for many years. The Ministry of National Education, Youth and Sports did, however, consult with them, but only to do the opposite – or almost the opposite – of what came out of it. Indeed, according to this consultation, school principals categorically refuse to exercise hierarchical authority over teachers – this has almost always been the case. According to an OpinionWay survey conducted in 2019 for the ministry, only 11% of the 29000 directors surveyed – out of the 45500 in the profession – wanted to "have a true status as head of institution." This proves once again that such a measure is not the core of their concerns and the problems they face. It is nevertheless the heart of your text: Article 1 gives the school principal functional authority over the teachers of the schools without at any time mentioning the role of the council of teachers, which is central to the schools. You have not only selected a measure that was very few in demand: you have chosen one that the directors oppose in the majority, while not responding to their main concerns. However, in terms of school management, French specificity is precisely rooted in the democratic functioning of the Council of Teachers, which was born in 1908 in order to allow power to be shared on educational issues. This method of democratic and collegial functioning, combined with a culture of the sharing of intelligences, does not seem to be in the air of time: the law for a school of trust, which has the result that teachers step up, bears witness to this. Yet it is an educational model that has proved its worth. Finally, I would like to refer to Article 2a, which deals with administrative aid: in the new wording of the Joint Joint Committee, this is ensured by the State, and that is so much better – we have made every effort, during the debates in the National Assembly, to defend such an amendment and it is welcome. The previous wording provided for State or local authorities to take over, leading to a dilution of responsibility which might weaken the possibility for schools to actually obtain administrative aid, while many managerial support jobs were abolished during the current quinquennium. It is therefore up to the State to fill this gap and it is pleased that this amendment was adopted because otherwise this bill would not cost it a euro. [[Mr. Jean-Paul Dufrègne applauds]] In any event, the text formally opposes the demands of school principals and principals: for these reasons, the GDR group will vote against.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u143	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u144	I shall put the whole bill to the vote, taking into account the text of the Joint Joint Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u145	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 53 Number of votes cast 53 Absolute majority 27 For adoption 48 Against 5
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u146	The next item is the debate on the report of the Joint Joint Committee on the proposal for a law to speed up economic and professional equality (No 4769).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u147	Mrs Marie-Pierre Rixain, rapporteur of the Joint Committee, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u148	Drawing the face of 2030's France, that of a France that takes its destiny in hand, is to anticipate equal participation of women and men in our economic leadership. That is to say that the time for the sharing of economic power has come. It is to enable women to take part in the development of break-up innovations. It is to ensure that they have access to public and private investment without gender bias. It reminds them, while 85% of 2030 jobs do not yet exist, that artificial intelligence and coding are also done for them, regardless of their age. It is to ensure that, in an increasingly automated world of work, they have access to training paths after parental leave and thus to new and better paid work opportunities.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u149	It is to put an end to the unlivened, prevented lives that we find, as Virginia Woolf wrote, "in the dark corridors of history, where the vagrant silhouettes of generations of women are greatly guessed", and allow each of us to be recognized as an economic subject in its own right. That is the whole meaning of the bill that I tabled on March 8, which we unanimously voted on at first reading and which our honourable senators did not fail to enrich. As we look at the conclusions of the Joint Joint Committee, I would like to take this opportunity to welcome your contributions, ladies and gentlemen, with particular attention to President Christophe Castaner, whose sincere convictions and constant support have been decisive in the outcome of this text. This bill gives us the opportunity to equip ourselves with tools to build, together with women, France of 2030, to build, with them, the answers to the challenges not only technological, industrial and scientific, but also social and human. Thus the first articles of this text aim to remove the obstacles that prevent women in a precarious situation, often single mothers, from returning to work. The Senate and the Assembly also agreed on major advances in Article 5 to end the sexual division of labour. In terms of professional equality, I am pleased that the Senate has also made the choice to consolidate, in section 6, the Index of Professional Equality, a tool that has proven its worth since its introduction in 2018. On Article 7 – probably the most commented article – the stake was strong. I am pleased that the Senate has followed us on the application of the measure to two distinct sets: the executive and the executive. We will have to have at least 30 per cent of women in each of these groups within five years, and then 40 per cent within eight years.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u150	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u151	We have also obtained that, within two years of the enactment of the law, each of the companies concerned publishes on the website of the Ministry of Labour a photograph of these executives and governing bodies. This transparency effort will ensure the relevance of the mechanism. As far as Article 8 is concerned, we have managed to adopt a common vision on the necessary encouragement of entrepreneurs by setting realistic and reasonable parity objectives for BPIFrance, the Banque publique d'investissement, on its investment committees. The introduction of equal conditionality in funding is a major step forward in our legislation and I would like to welcome the ambitious schedule set by the Senate in this area. Perhaps the sorrowful or anxious spirits will pronounce the magic phrase, so often heard: "Women? We can't find any. To these, I reply: "Open your eyes, go to schools, go to factories, go to the investment sector: women are trained, competent, determined, resilient, present. » As you will have understood, ladies and gentlemen, the text that we are about to vote on is a feminist, resolutely feminist text. Our country will be the first in the world to break the glass ceiling and allow women, by 2030, to be 40 per cent on the executive committees and steering committees of large companies. It is also a feminist text, because we redefine rules of the game too long established for a world of work built by men for men. It is now time to establish fair rules, not rules for women, but rules built with women and men. What we're doing today. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] These rules concern not only the economic game but also the social game because, as Olof Palme recalled, emancipating the woman, enabling her to integrate, on an equal footing, the labour market, is also emancipating the man by freeing him from the social expectations and virilistic stereotypes inherited from the figure of the paterfamilias. For man, to accompany his children from an early age, to assume what he is intimately, is to free himself, too.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u152	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u153	The Minister for Gender Equality, Diversity and Equal Opportunities has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u154	In 1983, the law defended by Yvette Roudy was the first to include the principle of professional equality in the Labour Code. Since then, the legislative framework for equality between women and men in the professional world has expanded considerably, in successive stages. Ten years ago, the Copé-Zimmermann Act was a very important step forward.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u155	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u156	Thanks to this law, the Boards of Directors of the CAC40 companies have dramatically feminized from just 10% in 2009 to almost 45% today, thus raising it to the first step of the European podium and second to the world level, behind Iceland. But the progress made in recent decades must of course not dazzle us. While the Copé-Zimmermann law has allowed us to make a dramatic leap in terms of boards of directors, the stakes now lie within the management bodies. Let us indeed be lucid: the ricochet effect so hoped for has not taken place. The glass ceiling between the governing bodies of the companies and the boards of directors has remained perfectly hermetic and wage inequalities remain persistent, almost forty years after the vote on the Roudy law. We therefore had to remedy this for the whole management chain, where the company's decisions are actually made. That is the ambition of this bill. Thanks to the very concrete measures it contains, I am convinced that this text represents a most significant step forward for women and for professional equality. The constructive consultations carried out by the two rapporteurs, in the Joint Joint Committee, enabled agreement to be reached on a text that was balanced, realistic and demanding. As Marie-Pierre Rixain has just explained, article 7 has been the subject of every attention and has undoubtedly been the most discussed by the two assemblies. This article sets out new obligations for companies with more than 1000 employees. It requires them to publish annually, on the website of the Ministry of Labour, any differences in the representation of women and men among their senior management and members of their governing bodies. On this point, I am pleased that an agreement has been reached in the Joint Joint Committee on the timing of this publication. This is a significant step forward in the process of accompanying companies to achieve the objectives set by this text. Indeed, it is by encouraging companies to have a duty of transparency that the lines are really being moved. The Joint Joint Committee has also reached agreement on the scope of this article, making it clear that the quotas defined will apply not only to senior management but also to members of the governing bodies. The goal is to achieve a minimum proportion of gender representation for these positions by 2027 by 30 per cent and 40 per cent by 2030. At the same time, we had to deal at the root with the mechanisms that reproduce inequalities. Through its Article 5, by publishing statistics on equality in higher education and by promoting a balanced representation of women in the juries of the entrance competitions to the major schools, we prepare the talent pools of tomorrow by fighting the stereotypes that assign. We thus promote equality before entering the professional world. On the other hand, because I have observed it in my previous life in the business world, I know that one of the major obstacles to the progression of the careers of parents, especially mothers, is access to a childcare solution. This is an established fact, especially for single-parent families, which are 85% of women with children. Article 4 therefore clearly supports single-parent families by reserving childcare places to enable them to find a job, to create an activity or to participate in professional support measures. Similarly, article 3 makes it useful to improve access to vocational training arrangements for the beneficiaries of the shared child-rearing benefit. These provisions are important because they enable women who are far from employment to be accompanied by their motherhood and help them reintegrate into the professional world. In the same way, I am pleased that the fight against economic violence that women can sometimes experience within the couple has been seized. The obligation to pay wages and social benefits to the right holder's bank account is also a concrete measure that will have an impact on the lives of many women. I will conclude with a point that is particularly close to my heart: women's entrepreneurship. It was essential that women who wished to undertake should not be blocked by gender bias and that their freedom to undertake should not be hindered by gender stereotypes of another time. Bias hinder women who want to access financing to start and grow their businesses, so that women entrepreneurs are 30 per cent less likely than men to see their financing applications complete. Article 8 is intended to reduce these inequalities. It provides for mixed objectives in the policy of BPIFrance to support the creation and development of enterprises. The composition of the project selection committees will be further feminized, as will the management teams of the beneficiary projects. Again, the work of the Joint Joint Committee has made it possible to find a relevant balance on the deadlines for the implementation of this scheme. The same article also introduces the concept of "ega-conditionality" in the granting of loans or equity financing by BPIFrance. [[Applause on many benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] New generations are very sensitive to equality issues. Marie-Pierre Rixain, Christophe Castaner and all of you in this Chamber have understood this issue well. The debates, always nourished and constructive, sometimes stunned by obstacles, finally led to an ambitious agreement – the fruit of your determination, dear Marie-Pierre Rixain. This bill is undoubtedly a major piece of legislation for economic and occupational equality between women and men. I already know that it will be an inspiration for many other countries in Europe and in the world. Equality is a French passion that we are making live again tonight. We can therefore all welcome the successful conclusion of this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u157	In the general discussion, the floor was for Mr Maxime Minot.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u158	Ten years after the adoption of the Copé-Zimmermann law – I will come back – the Assembly will adopt a new law to achieve equality between women and men in the economic and professional environment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u159	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u160	[[Mr. Dino Cinieri applauds]] We are particularly pleased, in the Republican Group, to vote on this text, which is the result of a fine parliamentary work between the Assembly and the Senate, and to continue the path drawn by the right and the centre. Do I need to recall that the main laws of equality between women and men come from the right? [[Mr. Dino Cinieri applauds]] [[Same movement]] [[Same movement]] I will refer to the Act of 23 March 2006 on equal pay for women and men, the Act of 23 July 2008 amending article 1 of the Constitution on equal access for women and men to electoral mandates and the Act of 27 January 2011 on the balanced representation of women and men on boards of directors and supervision and on equality, known as the Copé-Zimmerman Act. The latter has borne so much fruit that 46% of the board members of our country's companies are women, which you recalled in your presentation, Madam Minister Delegate. Finally, we are so committed to parity between women and men that we wish to place a woman in the highest position in our country at The Republicans. Together, all attached to the place of women in our society, I am confident that we will succeed in electing Valérie Pécresse as President of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u161	This is neither the place nor the time!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u162	On equal terms, a woman still earns 10.5 per cent less than a man. Women are less than 30 per cent likely to be financed by the main venture capital funds. No CAC40 company is headed by a woman. Finally, the capital gap between women and men has increased. This situation is unbearable, and we must act. This bill, tabled by Marie-Pierre Rixain, resulting from intense parliamentary work – I would also like to pay tribute to our colleague Laurence Trastour-Isnart, who is particularly involved in this matter – has been improved by the Senate. First of all, it aims to strengthen women's independence and economic autonomy, in particular through the obligation to pay wages or certain social benefits to an account held by women, or the extension of the right to the individual account in the case of a joint account. The bill also aims at the integration of women into the labour market, particularly in situations of single parenthood, with a real public service for early childhood. It is only by allowing parents to have real childcare solutions that we can accelerate their access to employment. The text also makes many welcome changes in the field of research and teaching. Finally, I come to the main article, namely Article 7 and the objective of quotas in the governing bodies, including among managers. We can only welcome the fact that the Senate and the National Assembly have reached a common version for companies with more than 1000 employees: the representation gap will not be less than 30 per cent in the proportion of each sex among management and members of the governing bodies; Two years after the publication of this Act, publication of existing deviations will be mandatory. All that makes it possible to achieve equality between women and men is an essential step forward for our society, but let us ensure that this text does not produce perverse effects, especially in companies where the share of women is low because of the very nature of the enterprise – I think, for example, in the construction and public works sector (BTP). Finally, we are pleased with the deletion of several articles by the Joint Joint Committee, in particular Articles 7 bis A and 7 bis B, which would pose difficulties for our companies. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Ms Marie-Pierre Rixain, rapporteur, and Messrs. Yannick Haury and Gaël Le Bohec also applaud]] Let me conclude with a regret. Of course, this text represents a step forward in favour of equality between women and men, and, thanks to the work of the Senate, it has been particularly improved, which is why we will vote in favour of it. However, this quinquennium did not have a great law putting an end to this unbearable inequality when it was the great cause. We hope that the presidential campaign that is beginning will bring an end to this injustice once and for all.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u163	Mr Erwan Balanant has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u164	Here we are gathered for the final stage of the legislative process of a text – adopted in May by the National Assembly and in October by the Senate – that is useful and necessary to advance an essential cause: equality between women and men. This is a societal and cultural issue for which we must fight tirelessly, because much remains to be done. In our country, with equal skills and positions, the wage gap between women and men is 9%. In addition, there are many inequalities in the world of work or in economic life, which are no longer acceptable. In this respect, we can welcome the constant commitment of the rapporteur Marie-Pierre Rixain. You have undertaken a major effort to improve equality between women and men on various aspects: in the governing bodies of companies, in entrepreneurship or in higher education and research. The legislative shuttle has led to important work, multiple rewrites aimed at making the text more efficient and responsive to the economic realities of our country. The Joint Joint Committee, which met last week, was expected to reach agreement on 27 articles remaining under discussion. We are pleased to see that the two assemblies have achieved a balanced joint drafting that retains the original ambitions of the bill, particularly with regard to article 7, the most emblematic of the bill. The mechanism adopted in CMP, which we believe is relevant, provides for companies with more than 1000 employees to publish annually any differences in representation between women and men in their management and in their governing bodies. According to the targets set, the minimum representation of each sex in these positions will be 30 per cent by 2027 and 40 per cent by 2030. The scope of the functions covered by these publications, which has been the subject of much debate here and in the Senate, will ultimately be appreciated at the level of each company, for the executive and the governing bodies that concern it, and not at the level of the group. This will give a more precise view of the balance and help to implement solutions adapted to each company. The principle of publishing on the website of the Ministry of Labour the results obtained by each of the companies concerned is a useful complement to the scheme, since this will enable us to measure progress and to highlight the shortcomings in the sharing of positions of power. This article is legitimately a source of hope since it is inspired by the mechanisms of a text that has produced effects: the Copé-Zimmermann law. Ten years after its promulgation, it has resulted in a marked improvement in the position of women on the boards of our companies, to the point of making our country the best student in the European Union with a rate of 46% of women in these bodies, which we can be proud of. This text will improve the financial support of women entrepreneurs – an area in which we need to make progress – by imposing targets on BPIFrance for equal representation on investment committees. I would also like to mention the measures relating to the financial autonomy of women, which consist of paying salaries and most of the social benefits to the bank account of the person holding the account. The aim is to strengthen the prevention of economic violence within the couple. The issue of equality between women and men does not concern the business world alone; it must be considered in all areas. We therefore consider as fundamental the provisions intended to encourage reconciliation between family and professional lives, through articles aimed at improving the occupational integration of the beneficiaries of the shared child-rearing benefit or at facilitating the day-care of children from single-parent families. Since the education system is not spared by inequalities, the text also contains various measures aimed at enhancing equal opportunities for women and men at the university level. These include the publication of indicators on equality in higher education, or the obligations of gender representation in competition boards. Such provisions are in the direction of a more inclusive and egalitarian society. Whether professional or societal, equality is determined from the outset of education. It is therefore necessary and consistent to act on levers in educational institutions. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group. – The rapporteur also applauds]] The Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats Group welcomes the work carried out by both chambers and the rapporteurs. The legislative path of this text demonstrates that the National Assembly and the Senate are able to work in good intelligence when it comes to advancing major causes. We will therefore vote in favour of the CMP text, which provides concrete progress for women's rights and a more representative world of work in our society.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u165	Mrs Chantal Jourdan has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u166	Ten years after the so-called Copé-Zimmermann Act, which imposed 40 per cent of women on the boards of directors of companies, the High Council for Equality between Women and Men still had only 19 per cent of women on the executive committees and management committees of companies represented in the SBF 120 index (Société des Bourse Françaises 120.) As a result, no significant progress has been made in the distribution of positions of responsibility within companies over the past ten years. The text we are discussing is aimed at accelerating economic and occupational equality between women and men. As we can only share this objective, we will of course vote in favour of it. However, we cannot fully satisfy ourselves with its lack of ambition and the long delays in implementation leave little hope for real equality to be achieved in the near future. First of all, I regret that we did not have before us a great bill on equality between women and men during this quinquennium. On 25 November 2017, however, the President of the Republic made it his main national cause. In economic terms, this priority had found only a very marginal translation into the PACTE law – an action plan for the growth and transformation of enterprises – which, however, was reforming many sectors. When, on December 3, 2019, Bruno Le Maire and Marlène Schiappa launched a public consultation entitled "Acting together for gender equality in the economy", we expected a bill to meet the challenge. This was not the case, and it is now through a proposal for a law, which by its very nature is more limited, that we are called upon to discuss the question of economic and professional equality. Throughout the quinquennium, legislative initiatives to advance women's rights had to be done by Parliament. On the contrary, I very sincerely welcome, on behalf of the Socialist and Related Group, the work of the rapporteur, Marie-Pierre Rixain, who has dealt with this issue and made it possible to make a significant improvement in the text during its examination, thanks to her open-mindedness with regard to several proposals from the opposition. I am thinking, for example, of the possibility given to the beneficiaries of the child's shared education benefit to access vocational training arrangements prior to the end of the benefit, rather than at the end of the benefit. Our amendments on this point are in agreement. On the substance, we regret, as we have said, the lack of ambition of the text: the measures envisaged, if they are in line with an improvement in the existing one, often do so only marginally. Thus, the main measure, in Article 7, reinforcing the objective of women's representation in decision-making bodies, is within a time frame of up to 12 years, with a floorless sanction and several possibilities of escaping it. Above all, why did you just have to count at least 30 per cent, then 40 per cent of representatives of each sex? We also believe that in the area of women's rights within the company, certain areas have been forgotten in the bill, whether it concerns the fight against discrimination at work or the support of persons who are victims of domestic violence. In this regard, we proposed the compulsory appointment of a focal point in the delegation of staff to the Social and Economic Committee (ESC) to combat discrimination. In addition, in view of the delay in ratifying International Labour Organization (ILO) Convention 190, we called for better protection of women victims of domestic violence in their dealings with their employers, easier administrative procedures and assistance in obtaining professional mobility. We also proposed legal leave to enable them to carry out the judicial, medical or social procedures necessary for their situation, or the possibility of breaking an employment contract without prior notice when a person has to extract from a dangerous context. We regret that none of these proposals have been heard. Finally, we believe that the composition of selection or competition boards in universities, so-called selective courses or procedures for access to the public service must finally reach parity. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group. – The rapporteur also applauds]] In conclusion, I would like to recall that the first longitudinal studies carried out on the feminization of the governing bodies of the first 500 US companies – those listed in the Fortune 500 ranking – already showed that the quartile of companies with the most feminized management teams had an average return on equity of 35.1 % higher than that of the quartile of the least feminized companies. Economic and professional equality is therefore also an opportunity for the company, let us not forget. We call on all organizations to take advantage of this!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u167	Mrs Annie Chapelier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u168	"I say three things to women: your economic independence is the key to your liberation. Do not let anything pass through the gestures, the language, the situations that await your dignity. Never resign. By quoting these words from Ms. Gisèle Halimi, a feminist activist, brilliant lawyer and MP for this assembly, I mean to the women of this House and to all our fellow citizens that it is our duty to take over. Not without emotion, I am speaking to you on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, on this very important day for equality between women and men. Equality is a permanent fight, and we must not let go. We are defending a more egalitarian society where everyone must be recognized and paid for as such. This cause is right and we'll be there to keep hearing it. This text takes on a real societal challenge – equality between women and men – because it is clear that, without full and complete financial equality, women will never have the same rights as their partners. They will be relegated to second place indefinitely. Their professional and personal lives will be shaken and their careers held back, their ambitions being trampled on. These sexual discriminations are concrete and palpable. They can lead to the de-consideration of the predominantly female professions, for example the midwives we discussed recently in this House. Women are not substitutes and we will have to fight constantly to achieve this professional equality. I will not go back to all the important progress that has been made by this bill, because the rapporteur has set out them at length. However, I would like to focus on those defended, enriched and supported by our group. In Article 2, the Action Together group adopted the integration of the pension, sickness and supplementary pension benefits of the self-employed into the scheme enabling them to ensure that they are properly paid into their bank account. With article 5 bis, we improve our children's awareness of these issues and train professionals who work alongside them on gender stereotypes and related discrimination, from guidance counsellors to university juries. By Article 7, we are further breaking the glass ceiling preventing access to high-level positions on the well-known executive committees, from which women are currently excluded despite brilliant careers. In this way, we are introducing quotas so that, within eight years, companies with more than 1000 employees are obliged to have executive committees composed of at least 40% women. In Article 5, by means of transparency measures, we develop indicators on equality between women and men for higher education institutions and strengthen those already existing for enterprises: so that each profession can be enriched by a better respect for equality between women and men. In the fight against the obstacles to women's economic and professional empowerment, this text is therefore of major importance and I would like to thank the president of the delegation for women's rights, Marie-Pierre Rixain, for her pugnacity and determination. It should be stressed that this text is the result of a rich trans-party work, a joint work between the Assembly and the Senate. Having the same objective, the two chambers were thus able to reach this necessary and consensual text. The Senate has enriched the text, particularly in Article 8, where it is now specified that BPIFrance sets itself mixed objectives and publishes annual data on access to loans from its beneficiaries. My only regret is that pay equity could not be included in this text. But I have no doubt that this issue will be one of the challenges of the coming decades for genuine equality between women and men. While all over the world, past victories are never achieved, and the ongoing struggles are being called into question, this text ensures that equality is rooted as a right and a duty in our country. A world in which women have a recognized place and decision-making power similar to that of men is a better world, for all, we must constantly repeat it. We must give women the visibility and legitimacy they deserve, just as men do. [[Applause on the banks of the Action ens, LaREM and Dem groups]] I will end with the words of poet René Char: "What comes into the world to trouble nothing deserves neither consideration nor patience. Now it's up to us to be ambitious.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u169	Mrs Valérie Six has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u170	Ladies and gentlemen, I am delighted to be with you tonight to vote on a text that is part of the long march towards parity. Seventy-five years after the preamble to the 1946 Constitution, which states that "the law guarantees women, in all fields, equal rights to men", there is still a gap between women's rights and reality. However, we have seen significant progress, such as the law of 13 July 1965 which allows women to open a bank account in their name and to work without the consent of their husbands; the Act of 6 June 2000 providing for equal access for women and men to electoral mandates; The Copé-Zimmermann Act of 27 January 2011 which imposes 40% of women on the boards of directors of companies. However, inequalities persist and women still have much to do to achieve banking and financial autonomy. Delegated Minister Elizabeth Moreno rightly states that "to ask for equal pay is not to ask for charity." Indeed, it is not acceptable in 2021 for women to earn an average of 10.5 per cent less than men in equal positions. The crisis has also exacerbated inequalities. Women have been severely affected because they are overrepresented in the social and medical sectors: 75 per cent in the health sector, over 80 per cent in EHPAD and education, and over 90 per cent in the cleaning and cleanliness sector. The text we are voting today aims at accelerating economic and professional equality. I thank Marie-Pierre Rixain for the quality of her work and her commitment as chair of the delegation to women's rights and equal opportunities between men and women. The objective we share is equality, so as not to deprive society in general and businesses in particular of the potential of women to create wealth. I am pleased that the National Assembly and the Senate have been able to reach agreement on the text. I would like to welcome the following provisions: guaranteeing women's financial and banking independence; the integration of the definition of nurseries for vocational integration known as AVIP nurseries; the creation of an index measuring gender differences in representation in decision-making positions and the mix in admission boards in higher education institutions. We note that gender stereotypes persist, particularly in the choice of professional careers. Higher education must feel given a special role for diversity, as vocational guidance is mainly due to school guidance. In this way, the school institutions providing higher education training will publish statistics with indicators to measure the gender distribution of pupils in the preparatory classes of the larger schools, and I welcome this. As far as the position of women in the world of work is concerned, I am in favour of a better representativeness in companies. An effort of transparency is needed. The law provides that companies with more than 1000 employees have at least 30 per cent women among the executive and executive members of the governing bodies. Finally, with regard to entrepreneurship, women have the same will as men to start their businesses. We must indeed introduce mixed objectives in the policy of supporting the creation and development of BPIFrance's enterprises. I have only one regret: in my view, the text does not sufficiently develop the modes of custody, given the willingness of women to invest in their professional careers. [[Applause on the benches of the IDU-I, LR and LaREM groups]] For all the progress I have listed, the independent IDU Group will vote in favour of this text. The laws had led to significant changes in women's rights. Much work remains to be done to deconstruct prejudice, but today we can rejoice in bringing our stone to the building.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u171	On the whole of the bill, I have a request for a public vote before the La République on the move. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u172	Colleagues, equality does not come about, does not come about. Unfortunately, it was not enough to say that men and women were equal in law to make it a reality. Equality is built, every day a little more. In economic and professional matters, successive legislatures and governments have endeavoured to advance equality: the Roudy Act, the Genisson Act, the Copé-Zimmerman Act, all have helped to recognize women as economic actors in their own right. But while our equality legislative arsenal is probably one of the most important in the world, it is not enough. Equal pay has been established decades ago: it is still not a reality. Since 2014, companies with more than 50 employees must have an action plan for professional equality: 60% of companies subject to this obligation have still not fulfilled it. It is a global cultural revolution that we need: it involves acting in favour of economic and professional equality, as well as accelerating the fight against gender-based and sexual violence and effectively guaranteeing access to public and political life or women's freedom to dispose of their bodies. In this regard, we regret, of course, that the Government's commitment to a major law on equality between men and women has not been kept, even though this objective has been proclaimed a major national cause of the quinquennium. We now have to move forward on this issue slowly. In this bill, the economic aspect has been given priority. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the rapporteur, Marie-Pierre Rixain, for her work which allowed us to approach this project before the end of the legislature. With regard to women's access to professional and social responsibilities, this text is a continuation of the Copé-Zimmermann Act. While this law has been a real success at the board level, the expected runoff in the rest of the organization charts has not really occurred and the glass ceiling continues to block or slow women's progress. It is therefore up to us to continue the work against the unequal sharing of power within companies. Let me remind you that quotas are not a perfect solution, but they have proved their worth. Women must have access to managerial positions or investment in their entrepreneurship projects: that is not to deny skills or merit. On the contrary, it is to recognize those of women, in the same way as those of men. Nevertheless, we will not save on a revision of the criteria of the occupational equality index: it is still largely perfectable to improve our data on occupational inequalities. We regret that our amendments to this effect have not been accepted. Finally, I would like to stress the twofold objective that must be ours: women must be given access to positions of responsibility, which are more valued, but it is also imperative to promote and better recognize the professions that are predominantly carried out by women. This last point is probably the most important because it concerns a much higher number of women. However, the bill does not respond to it. Breaking the glass ceiling will not be enough if we do not tackle this "sticky floor" which too often confines women to less paid and more precarious positions. For this to happen, these feminized trades, these connected trades, which the health crisis has brought to light, should be valued. Part-time work should be combated, with women occupying more than 80 per cent of the time. Let us not stop half the way, otherwise we forget the majority of the population. Equality doesn't work out, I said. Today we are going to vote in favour of this law, which is a major step, but it will then have to be implemented, which will mean undertaking ambitious policies to increase the number of places in crèches, which are now insufficient; to invest heavily in education and higher education; to monitor the application of these measures in companies, which has not been sufficiently done so far. As at first reading, the Libertés et territoires Group will support this bill. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and LR groups]] It aims at an issue that concerns us all, because it is society as a whole that would gain real equality between women and men.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u173	Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u174	The members of the La France insoumée group wish first of all to welcome the commitment of the rapporteur, Marie-Pierre Rixain, whose commitment to the cause of women is well known. On the other hand, with regard to this bill, we deplore its measures that are too marginal to make a real difference in terms of equality between men and women. Yet there is so much to be done, particularly with regard to economic equality. That is why we consider that this text does not go far enough and is radically lacking in ambition. Unfortunately, it is not the Penicaud Index that will be able to reduce current wage inequalities. It could have been expected from this bill that it would at least correct this tool, unreliable and moderately effective. Although it was originally designed to eliminate wage inequalities, the objectives are unfortunately not achieved. For example, companies will be able to continue to raise women's wages by 1 euro during their career or upon their return from sick leave, while benefiting from the maximum score for these indicators. As for the person who evaluates equal pay, he may continue to disregard part-time work. However, women account for 80 per cent of part-time employees and this is one of the main sources of wage inequality between men and women. In short, this index misses measures that would allow women to be better paid and to benefit from better economic security. And the bill, which is supposed to speed up economic and professional equality, ignores these shortcomings, although it could have corrected them and improved the situation of women. In addition, in this bill, you increase the number of nursery places reserved for beneficiaries of the family support allowance. We consider that this provision is too timid, since less than a quarter of single parents benefit from it. Indeed, the constraint of being available to care for children often leads the lone parent to adjust his or her working time or even to interrupt his or her activity. And let us be clear: this is in the vast majority of cases of single mothers. Eighty-five per cent of lone parents are women and nearly one in two single mothers work part-time. In addition, four out of ten single-parent families live below the poverty line: when it comes to equal pay for women and men, it is also about working poverty and children living below the poverty line, often in the cold. You should have taken up these issues when we proposed it to you. For example, we could have achieved a much more ambitious policy to significantly increase the number of day care places: it is the development of a public early childhood service that should be subject to discussion, rather than the management of the shortage of places that you propose. The arrival of the first child is identified as the time of women's career in which pay drop-out is established relative to men. However, more than 200,000 guard solutions are still lacking in France. How can this not be seen as a correlation with the acute shortage of day-care places and the inadequacy of the State's financial support on this point? We have been battalions for several months to recall that, ten years after the Copé-Zimmermann law, the law imposing 40% of women in the executive leadership still does not exist. This provision was not included in the original text. These quotas, integrated under popular pressure and through the adoption of parliamentary amendments, lead to a slight improvement. Their sanctions are also small and even symbolic. Without quotas and sanctions, the situation of women could not change positively. Since the beginning of the legislature, this measure appeared to be a sea snake: announcements were made by the ministry responsible for labour before being systematically followed by contrary announcements – a deleterious "at the same time": you have already made the country lose four years in terms of equality between women and men! Finally, there is no provision for upgrading front-line occupations, which are supposed to be women's and poorly paid, because most of them are women: the beautiful discourses held in the midst of a pandemic have been long-lasting. It's shameful. This is why, in our joint L'Avenir programme, we propose to organize a social conference to improve the wages, working conditions and career paths associated with the professions occupied mainly by women in the care, link and contact sectors. Throughout this legislature, unlike the announcements, equality between men and women will have remained the great cause of the quinquennium in words, but not in means. However, the La France insoumée group will vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u175	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u176	Since 3 November 2021, at 9:22 a.m., women have worked free of charge. A year earlier, they worked without compensation as of November 6. Thus, if we sometimes want to express great self-satisfaction, from year to year, wage inequalities between women and men worsen in France. The figures are instructive: a woman earns on average 25.7% less than a man; with equal contract, diploma, experience and responsibilities, this difference is 10%; 82 per cent of part-time employees and two thirds of poor workers are women. Inequalities in the world of work remain glaring. They have consequences for the whole of life, throughout life and throughout life, having an impact on the rights to unemployment or to retirement. Is this social violence against women unrelated to violence against many women? Inequality of treatment leaves the idea of unequal dignity to be established. "One in three women is the victim of violence in her lifetime," said Fanny, a young high school girl, on the occasion of the International Day to Combat Violence against Women. "We women must find the courage to be free and to say stop. It is the whole society that must "say stop," acting. Despite the eight laws passed in favour of professional equality in recent years, it must be noted that the results are not on track. Legislation remains far too timid, often limiting itself to quota policies to improve the representation of women in management bodies.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u177	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u178	Sanctions against those who do not sign an agreement or plan on occupational equality are too little dissuasive and labour inspection lacks the means to control failing companies. Since the adoption of the 2017 Labour Orders, this issue can now only be raised in companies every four years, even though it was previously to be negotiated annually. Part-time work, which mainly affects women, continues to flourish in many sectors, along with subcontracting, due to a lack of supervision. At the initiative of my colleague Marie-George Buffet, the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left had made proposals to remedy this within the framework of one of its days of parliamentary initiative, but both the Government and the majority had opposed it. We are about to pass one more law – a very unbinding law. While we broadly agree with the measures contained in the text, such as the obligation for large companies to make more room for women in positions of responsibility, we do not infuse any illusions: a law that is not accompanied by means has a high chance of triggering only small effects. The adoption of this text should not be sufficient to give us a good conscience. We should have gone much further in our stated ambition: the fight for equality between women and men must be conducted with greater political will. The health crisis had revealed, if necessary, how many poorly-recognized jobs were being carried out by women. These are often occupations that meet basic needs, with a strong social, accompaniment and service dimension, which are considered to be subordinate tasks to which women are so often confined. On the one hand, they are noble trades; On the other hand, women cannot be regarded as having special predispositions as women. These occupations, not only in health, medico-social, large-scale distribution, cleanliness or home help, but also in education are often subject to precarious working conditions and less well paid than others. Even today, the reality remains that of a society that does not recognize the trades, qualifications and work – even more so when it is carried out by women – and that is satisfied with wage inequalities and high wage differentials. Acting for professional equality implies revaluing all these professions: the State must set an example and propel this movement through the upgrading of the index point in the civil service or the tenure of the many contract workers. I am thinking in particular of accompanying students with disabilities (AESH). It is also necessary to regulate the use of compulsory part-time work, which is becoming ever more widespread, while it remains the first factor of wage inequality and the most common form of underemployment. Some companies have made it an ordinary form of management. Part-time work thus affects 32 per cent of part-time women and almost 10 per cent of female workers. Finally, the means of monitoring the labour inspectorate should be strengthened to ensure that the current legislation on occupational equality is effectively implemented. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group. – The rapporteur also applauds]] Despite all the reservations and shortcomings I have just mentioned, and without too many illusions, our group will vote in favour of this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u179	Mrs Carole Grandjean has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u180	I am particularly proud to defend this text of progress on behalf of the Members of the Liberal, Democratic and Reformist Group. This bill does not come from anywhere: the outcome owes a great deal to Mrs Rixain, who defended it with unwavering determination. The political support of our group president, Christophe Castaner, has been constant and decisive. I would also like to thank Member Monique Limon, with whom we have worked closely within the group to enrich this text. The conditions for consideration of this bill were not quite ordinary. At the heart of the health crisis, national representation seized the issue of economic and occupational equality between women and men. Far from putting these issues behind us, we have considered – and the Government with us – that the crisis is calling on us, more than ever, to accelerate our action. What is wrong is the inequalities that persist and hinder too many French women throughout their lives – these inequalities that are perceived very concretely on the pay sheets or in the composition of the governing bodies of large companies. Above all, nothing is more unbearable than the retrograde speech of some, which locks women in stereotyped or figurative roles. For, even in 2021, the fight against inequalities between women and men continues to disturb, which fully justifies our efforts. Let's make it clear: competence has no gender, trades too and careers even less!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u181	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u182	This has been understood very well by the economic actors. There is no doubt that there is a converging desire to change practices. That is the whole meaning of this bill, which responds to ambitious challenges. With this text, early childhood policy will be put at the service of equality between women and men. We support the development of child care through support for families in transition to work and single-parent families by encouraging AVIP nurseries. The fight against economic violence and women's direct access to income from work or social benefits will also be secured, through the obligation to pay such income to a personal or joint account. A major focus of the bill is certainly in its Article 7, which provides for an extension of the objective of balanced representation among executives of companies with more than 1000 employees: we will achieve, through this, a minimum proportion of each sex of 30% by 2027 and 40% by 2030. After the Copé-Zimmermann law adopted ten years ago for the boards of directors, which had dramatic effects in terms of parity,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u183	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u184	... the text that we are about to adopt extends this measure in a pragmatic and resolute way, with the aim of achieving parity in the governing bodies, mobilising all sectors of activity and multiplying model roles, which will have a run-off effect in companies. Of course, strong incentives must also be put in place to anchor this movement towards equality in the long run. This is why the text seeks to strengthen equal opportunities in schools and in higher education and research. One example is the requirement for higher education institutions to publish indicators of equal opportunities for women and men for each training, in order to measure and correct inequalities in access. Support for entrepreneurship is also crucial. That is why we are introducing mixed objectives into the policy of supporting the creation and development of BPIFrance's enterprises. This bill will also be based on mechanisms that already produce their effects. I am thinking here of the index of professional equality, introduced three years ago in the law for the freedom to choose one's professional future, which is part of the great social texts of the quinquennium. We have not given in to the temptation to upset this recent tool, but we have enriched it by asking companies to publish the results of each of its indicators. I would like to recall that 70% of companies have published their notes this year and that the average score is 85 out of 100. As a result, companies have seized this tool and the obligation to achieve results that they now have.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u185	That's great!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u186	For that is our ambition: to move from obligations of means – which have not proved their effectiveness in fifty years – to an obligation of result against gender discrimination, too long accepted by our society. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups, as well as on the benches of the commissions]] It is unsurprising, but with immense pride, that the La République en marche group will vote in favour of this bill. It will be very vigilant with regard to its conditions of application. Far from postures and outrages, this text brings us together around one of the foundations of politics: allowing the development of the greatest number of people.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u187	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u188	I shall put the whole bill to the vote, taking into account the text of the Joint Joint Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u189	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 50 Number of votes cast 50 Absolute majority 26 For adoption 50 Against 0
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1096.u190	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one thirty: Discussion, on the report of the Joint Joint Committee, of the proposal for a law to define pre-reform provisions for the compensation of natural disasters; Discussion of the proposal for a law to strengthen the environmental regulation of digital technology by the Authority for the Regulation of Electronic Communications, Posts and Distribution of the Press; Discussion on the report of the Joint Joint Committee on the proposal for a law regulating access to agricultural land. The meeting is adjourned.
