ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u1	The next item is the continuation of the discussion of the draft law on combating climate change and strengthening resilience to its effects (No. 3875, 3995).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u2	On Saturday, 10 April, the Assembly continued its discussion of the articles of the bill, ending with section 39. Mr Jean-René Cazeneuve, rapporteur-general of the special committee, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u3	I obviously wanted to greet the ministers, Barbara Pompili and Emmanuelle Wargon, and thank her in particular, on behalf of all the Members who were present – and whom I also thank – for having been with us on Saturday late enough. We exchanged a great deal on Title III during a debate that was of very high quality; We had a few minutes left, but in order to preserve that quality, we preferred to postpone today the debate on Title IV, which is at least as important as Title III.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u4	Mr Vincent Descoeur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u5	In view of the time remaining for the Republican Group to consider thirty-six articles, I give up speaking on it. But I would still like to express a regret, which I hope to share. I regret that Title IV "Housing" and, in particular, the issue of energy renovation of buildings suffer from the choice of organizing the debate in scheduled legislative time, when this is a major topic, which has been identified by the Government as a national priority, benefiting from the stimulus plan. The housing sector alone is responsible for 26% of greenhouse gas emissions. This is all the more inconvenient since the Special Committee did not address the issue of household support and the financing of the remainder, referring this debate back to the meeting, pending the conclusions of the report which the Government entrusted to Olivier Sichel. [[Mr Jean-MarieSermierapplaudit]] You will therefore understand our frustration that, at this moment and in the coming hours, we will not have the time to discuss the substance of this issue, including any amendments that the Government or the rapporteur will present to us.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u6	Mrs Chantal Jourdan has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u7	I am speaking on behalf of the Socialist and Related Group. With section 39, we begin the review of housing measures. This represents 30% of final energy consumption and 27% of greenhouse gas emissions in France: action in favour of housing is therefore central to achieving the objectives of carbon neutrality as well as to providing an acceptable quality of life for all French people. In addition, renovation is likely to create jobs; We have to take advantage of it. Many recent work, in particular from the High Climate Council and the reports of Ms. Meynier-Millefert and Mr. Olivier Sichel, shed light on the priorities to be implemented. This text is based in part on this – this is a step – but the measures envisaged do not yet meet all the requirements that must be met in this area. For example, the proposal made by the citizens of the Climate Convention to make the renovation of all dwellings compulsory is not accepted, whereas we could work to condition its application to criteria of financial sustainability – our group lays down the principle of this in the context of its proposal on the climate premium. As the High Climate Council recalled, it is essential to change our approach to energy renewal. The figures show this: renovating by separate actions does not have a real impact on greenhouse gas emissions, energy consumption and therefore on household bills. It is therefore necessary to promote a comprehensive and efficient renovation. We agree with the idea of very strong action in favour of the 4.8 million housing units in the F and G classes, which are regarded as energy coffers and which account for almost 17% of the stock. But we want to make them really energy efficient. The High Council for Climate said: "The bill does not address the risks of locking in insufficiently ambitious renovations that jeopardize the achievement of SNBC's renovation objectives," the national low-carbon strategy. We have therefore tabled several amendments to avoid this pitfall. Finally, our proposals on housing aim at two objectives: social justice and an acceptable climate future. In households in energy poverty, energy accounts for at least 10% of the household budget. In order to significantly lower the bill of the French, and especially the most modest ones, they must be allowed to embark on a partially subsidized renovation course that actually allows for a zero remaining charge. The proposal for a law on the creation of a climate premium and the fight against energy insecurity, tabled by our colleagues Jean-Louis Bricout and Boris Vallaud, contains provisions to this effect. The long exchanges that we have already had with regard to the remainder of the zero burden show that solidarity has not played its part in this area. The urgency is therefore to support the most modest. Our social pillar is banking; The widening wage gap is becoming alarming. In parallel with the action on housing, rebalancing must therefore be carried out in favour of social justice. Turning back to Title IV of the bill, we hope that the discussion will bring about the desired improvements.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u8	The Minister for Environmental Transition has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u9	I am very pleased to meet with you to consider Title IV, the first part of which is one of the key parts of the bill. As you know, energy renewal has emerged as one of the major challenges of our century. It is an ecological duty as well as a social imperative. Today, one in six dwellings can be described as a thermal passory, even if the expression is gallauded; There are therefore 4.8 million dwellings in which households are too hot in the summer and too cold in the winter. Given the cost to the French living there and paying the associated heating bills, it is understandable that the members of the Citizens' Convention for Climate have insisted on the need to act in this area. There have been many years of schemes to financially assist households in carrying out renovation work, but despite recent significant improvements – such as the replacement of ISCED, the energy transition tax credit, by MaPrimeRenov' – the effectiveness of these aids can be further enhanced. Indeed, for a household with no expertise on the subject, it is sometimes difficult to carry out such work, especially since there are a multitude of actors in the renovation sector, some of whom – fortunately a very small minority – may prove unscrupulous. In addition, aid is still often based on renovations and does not provide sufficient incentives to undertake comprehensive and efficient renovations. Last but not least, for quality renovations, the sums involved can be very large and the rest can hardly bearable for many of our fellow citizens. The bill aims to address these issues. Of course, we will not solve everything here, in a few days of debate, but we are going to lay several stones that will be all structural foundations. We worked there with my colleague Emmanuelle Wargon, with the rapporteur-general Jean-René Cazeneuve and the rapporteur of the special committee for Chapters I and II of Title IV, Mickaël Nogal, under the benevolent leadership of the chairman of the special committee. We have given guidance and sent major signals. Thus, the units classified as F and G will be considered indecent by 2028 and will no longer be able to be rented. We will also discuss the desirability of extending this provision to E-class housing by 2034. This is a major and unprecedented step forward: yes, the energy consumed in housing and the cost it represents for households are now taken seriously by the public authorities. Among the major advances that we are proposing is also the clarification of what priority should be given to the aid that we are distributing, namely the efficient renovations, which will enable our housing stock to keep the dividing path by two of the consumption and four of the greenhouse gas emissions by 2050. We also want to increase the amount of information that is transparently available on the energy state of a dwelling, in particular by giving greater weight and visibility to the DPE – an energy performance diagnosis – which we have improved and which will now become part of the daily lives of the French. To give households a better chance of renovating their housing, to overcome the current difficulties and to overcome the thermal colanders, we propose to introduce an accompaniment from A to Z. There was a lack of an accompanist dedicated to helping with the efficient renovation; We create this new function, following the suggestion of the working group chaired by Olivier Sichel. The objective is clear: to simplify the lives of the French and to ensure that public money is spent effectively in the service of the climate. In concrete terms, the attendant will tell you what work will be done; it will help you set up a financing plan, obtain public aid and take out a loan to finance the rest of the money; he will advise you on the choice of craftsmen; it will ensure the quality of the work. This support will make it possible to change the scale by convincing many French people to undertake quality renovations. Finally, we want to help the most modest to finance the rest of the burden after deduction of the amount of public aid. We will strengthen the loan advance transfer, which allows only interest to be paid over the water, the capital to be repaid only at the time of sale of the property or at the time of succession. You are proposed to guarantee these loans by the state, to reassure the banks and to encourage them to distribute them to modest households. Ladies and gentlemen, this is an exciting and ambitious project, with real challenges. I can count on everyone's commitment to ensure that this project quickly becomes a reality, because the French are waiting for it. There will be more comfort in housing, more local jobs, less greenhouse gas emissions and more purchasing power for households.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u10	The next speaker is the Minister for Housing.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u11	I am very pleased to begin the discussion on Title IV. Energy renewal of housing has indeed become an increasingly important element of environmental policy, as has the fight against the artificialisation of land, which we will discuss a little later. It is essential to respect the path defined by the Paris Agreement and thus reduce our greenhouse gas emissions – about 25% of which, as we have said, come from housing. Soil artificialization, on the other hand, is the primary cause of biodiversity loss; This is the second pillar of the policy led by the Minister of Ecological Transition and it is equally essential that it be dealt with by the bill. On these essential issues, what a long way to go, in terms of legislation, in recent years! Finally, little has been dealt with in the Law on Housing, Planning and Digital Development (ÉLAN), it is only by a strong will of parliamentarians that they have been dealt with in the Law on Energy and Climate; and in the Law on Climate and Resilience, an entire title is devoted to it. I would like to salute all the parliamentarians who have been involved in this debate: Marjolaine Meynier-Millefert and Vincent Descoeur, but also Nathalie Sarles, Jean-Charles Colas-Roy, Anthony Cellier, and of course the rapporteurs for Title IV – Mickaël Nogal, who is fully committed to the topic of energy renewal, and Lionel Causse, who is doing the same with regard to the fight against the artificialisation of soils. The bill includes concrete progress, and perhaps this is the most important one, particularly with regard to the renovation of buildings. The diagnosis of energy performance is the subject, once and for all, of a legislative definition: we determine the thresholds and the ambition, which makes it possible to determine which dwellings are to be renovated as a matter of priority. They are the most consumer and are referred to as thermal colanders; When you heat them, you actually heat the outside. In doing so, we also define the target of the renovation. We will discuss this, it is essential, because it is the basis of public policy that we deploy: this targeting must enable us to achieve the objectives of the low-carbon strategy and to bring the policy of energy renewal of housing into line with the Paris international agreement, the national low-carbon strategy and the multiannual energy programming (EPP). We then put in place a ban on renting thermal colanders, at least the most energy-efficient dwellings. It is also an essential axis of our policy. The prohibition applies to landlords, thanks to the condition of decency of the dwelling, but not to the owner-occupiers; We believe that the incentives created, as well as the support and financing of the rest, will enable us to achieve the objectives we set ourselves. Finally, we put forward the very principle of combating the artificialisation of soils: the first objective, in the medium term, in the long term – the 2050 horizon – and in the next ten years, is to bring together the different regional patterns, then local patterns and urban planning documents, and we have a very clear ambition with regard to commercial areas in particular. These advances will lead to changes – for the best – in the lives of the French; There is a public policy, a numerical ambition, a trajectory, tools that can be mobilised on a daily basis, funding and multi-annual programming. Many beautiful subjects in perspective!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u12	Mr Mickaël Nogal, rapporteur of the Special Committee for Chapters I and II of Title IV, spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u13	The starting point of our work is the moment when the President of the Republic entrusted 150 citizens to a mission on the climate. This Citizen Climate Convention (CCC) has made ambitious proposals that are included in this bill and represent a compass for many of us, regardless of the bench on which we sit. Of the five proposals on energy renewal, there is only one that we have not accepted: making the renovation purely compulsory. We preferred to ban the rental of some poorly isolated dwellings. As the minister explained, we wanted to distinguish between the landlord and the owner who lives in the home. In response to Vincent Descoeur, who wonders about the effects of this text, I think I can say that the planet will be able to thank the legislator and the executive for their action in this field: energy renovation is necessary because the building accounts for a quarter of the CO emissions and 45% of energy consumption in France. If there is an area where the impact of this text will be measurable, it is indeed the area of energy renewal – which is at the heart of the rapporteur-general and the chairman of the special committee. To achieve this, three conditions must be met. The first is that all French people have equal access to information, notably through the new energy performance diagnosis. The ELAN law of 2018 had already strengthened the reliability of the DPE and made it effective against third parties. Article 39 provides for its determination taking into account both the carbon impact and energy consumption. This transformation of the DPE, which has been under way for three years, alone represents a major step forward for the environment and for ecology, of which I am particularly proud. The second condition is that adequate support be provided. In this area, this text echoes the recommendations of Olivier Sichel, who has been instructed by the Government to reflect on how to accelerate energy renewal in our country. We have worked closely with the Government and consulted with all stakeholders, such as the members of the CCC, to ensure that this support is included in the bill – this is, in particular, the purpose of section 43. The third and final condition of which no one here will deny the importance: ensuring funding. The question of the rest of the case, raised several times by Marjolaine Meynier-Millefert and Vincent Descoeur, concerns all Members. The remainder must be made as acceptable as possible for all households, especially those that are modest. We will have to debate a programmatic amendment, if I may say so – it is not a question of making this text a finance law or a programming law, but of translating a strong commitment from the state, for which I thank the ministers. Articles 39 to 46 tend to satisfy these three conditions, so that the French live better in their homes and that the building weighs less in CO emissions and on the environment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u14	I call Mr Pupponi to support Amendments Nos 3685 and 5008, which can be presented in a consolidated format.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u15	It seems to me that these two amendments, which are concerned with the acoustic performance of dwellings, would have had a greater place in Article 43. This article deals only with energy insulation, whereas people living in an area with a sound discomfort plan (PGS) are already entitled to help with the sound insulation of their homes. In these territories, the two mechanisms should be combined, so as not to oblige the persons concerned to file files in two separate departments that are not necessarily going to communicate with each other. In some cases, the person may be assisted with thermal insulation two years after receiving the aid for the sound insulation of his or her home. For the sake of consistency, we propose that the DPE integrate the acoustic performance of dwellings or buildings located in a PGS: the installation assisted by a double or triple glazing can serve both objectives – thermal and acoustic insulation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u16	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u17	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u18	All the regulatory work carried out in recent months on the DCE had a goal: to ensure that this indicator measures energy consumption and the carbon impact of housing on an equal basis. The label used to qualify a dwelling will be developed on this basis. The addition of acoustic performance in such a diagnosis does not seem relevant to me. You are right, Mr Pupponi, to mention acoustic performance – improved in the case of energy renovations – but I am not in favour of these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u19	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u20	Your concern is perfectly understandable, but we want to standardise the DPE as much as possible, if only for its cost to remain acceptable. However, if acoustic elements are included to take account of the particular cases you are referring to, we really change the nature of the diagnosis. That is why I am asking for your amendments to be withdrawn. Otherwise, I'll give you an unfavorable opinion. To solve the problem you raise, it is better to seek to coordinate the windows than to act on the DPE. In the communes concerned by a GSP, where there is a real problem of noise pollution, it would be necessary to raise awareness of the windows – dedicated to energy renovation or improvement of housing – so that they offer the full range of existing aids, including those relating to sound insulation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u21	Mr François Pupponi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u22	I hear your arguments, but in Articles 39, 40 and 43 I have tabled amendments which, in the special committee, were all declared inadmissible for reasons which I have not yet understood. In good logic, these should have been included in section 43 as they push for the creation of a one-stop shop. I did not understand why the committee decided otherwise. [[Rires on the benches of the Dem group]] In any event, as the text currently stands, Mr X., who lives in a municipality subject to a GSP, will have to contact two different counters, one for energy diagnosis and the other for acoustic diagnosis. Let's imagine the dialogue between Mr. X. and the agent of the first department. "The house is not well insulated and you hear the planes," the agent will find, before specifying that it is the other department that manages the noise nuisances, without being able to give a date of intervention as such. Mr. X will be surprised: "It's the same house and you're telling me to change the windows for sound insulation. And the other one will say, "I may change the windows for thermal insulation, but for sound insulation, you need to see the other service. » Do you find this logical? In the municipalities concerned, what people expect is for the same service to carry out a global diagnosis, since the State offers aid for both types of renovation. The situation can even turn to absurdity if the energy diagnosor induces the inhabitant to change his windows, even to pay for a leftover charge, while this change is free when the housing comes within the framework of a PGS! How do you want the locals to be there? It would be logical to amend Article 43 if the special committee accepted it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u23	Excellent argumentation!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u24	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u25	I share your concern, but it relates to the accompanying act and not to the diagnostic tool. We will set up a personalized support, which will be compulsory from a certain amount of aid. Whether we do it at the legislative level or not, we can very well indicate that the accompaniment will also take into account noise pollution in places where there is a GSP: the personalized accompaniment is not only technical, it is also financial and takes into account the aid available. In principle, I agree with you, and whatever the provisions adopted in Article 43, I shall in any case ensure that your concern is taken into account when setting up the accompaniment. But it has no place in the development of the DPE, when the diagnosor measures the amount of energy consumed and CO emitted.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u26	Mr François Pupponi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u27	I still do not understand why my amendments were not accepted under Rule 43 when they were accepted under Rule 39. In any event, if the rapporteur or the minister delegate undertakes to amend Rule 43 to that effect, I would like to withdraw my amendments and discuss them again at that time.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u28	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u29	I would also suggest that our colleague withdraw these amendments and discuss, when we come to Article 43, how to improve the accompaniment in such situations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u30	All right, perfect!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u31	I have before me four amendments, Nos 2091, 6480, 180 and 182, which can be discussed jointly. Mr Vincent Descoeur has the floor to support Amendment No. 2091.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u32	It proposes the inclusion in the law of thresholds for classifying buildings between the different categories of the DPE, whether in terms of energy consumption or, from now on, greenhouse gas emissions. It is important to ensure that these thresholds do not undermine the target set for the entire housing stock in 2050: that it consists of low-consumption buildings, which corresponds to the current classes A and B.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u33	Mrs Marjolaine Meynier-Millefert has the floor in support of Amendment No 6480.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u34	As this amendment is similar to the previous one, I am not going to dwell on its defence. On the other hand, I would like to take this opportunity to commend the Government's commitment to energy renewal since 2017. As co-host of the famous energy renovation plan for the buildings announced at the very beginning of the mandate, I am indeed well placed to judge it. On all benches, the subject is now recognized as unavoidable, from the point of view of social justice – since it has an effect on the purchasing power of households and the comfort and health of the inhabitants – as well as that of climate and energy. In order to save my time and not to prolong the debates, I will simply say that many of my amendments are "defended", but I would nevertheless like to have answers – even brief ones – from the ministers because I know that we are very much listened to outside and that many actors are waiting for your answers.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u35	Amendments Nos 180 and 182 by Mr Vincent Descoeur are being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u36	I thank Mrs Meynier-Millefert and Mr Descoeur for their important information report on the thermal renovation of buildings – we discussed it in a special committee. I am not in favour of these four amendments, because the choice has been made to define the thresholds of the DPE by regulation. I will let the minister delegate complete my remarks on the collaborative work that has been carried out over the past few months, but I would like to point out that the new generation DPE, if I may say, which will come into force from 1 July, has been the subject of numerous consultations. I myself, as president of the National Habitat Council, brought together all the actors, who gave a very favourable opinion on this project. You recalled the objective of bringing the average performance of the entire built stock to the level of low-consumption building (BBC); It is for this purpose that we integrate the environmental impact into the new DPE. But it seems unwise, I insist, to incorporate performance thresholds into the law; they have been defined and well defined at the regulatory level – I take this opportunity to commend the quality of the executive's work. With regard to Mr Descoeur's amendments Nos 180 and 182, which aim to take account of the share of fossil fuels in the DPE, I will remind – and you will hear me say on several occasions – that the most virtuous energy is that which is not consumed, regardless of its origin, renewable or fossil.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u37	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u38	We will try to provide brief answers, including when Members simply state that their amendments are being defended. It is a very good thing to have included in the law the classes of existing buildings or parts of buildings for housing use. It is in fact likely to make our policy of energy renovation of housing much more readable. On the other hand, the performance thresholds seem to me to have to rise to the regulatory level. Moreover, after many consultations, the decrees establishing and setting new thresholds for the DPE, which take into account both primary energy and greenhouse gas emissions, will be published in the Official Journal tomorrow. Furthermore, the amendments do not mention the modulations which it is necessary to provide for in order to adapt thresholds, for example, to cold areas in the mountains. They will also be the subject of decrees. It seems to me that to provide for classes in the law and to determine the thresholds by decree forms a good balance – on the understanding that the latter are the subject of very close consultation with all the actors. That is why I express an unfavorable opinion on the four amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u39	Mr Vincent Descoeur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u40	The question I have to ask myself is whether, given this double-threshold classification, we can still claim that the average performance target for the entire park built by 2050 is equivalent to the current A or B classes? I will take the image – do not take it wrong – of an archer who, in order to reach his target, chooses to increase its surface or to move ten steps forward. Do the new thresholds of the DPE and the new definition of efficient renovation, which amounts to a jump of two classes, challenge the target for 2050 set by the 2015 law on the energy transition for green growth?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u41	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u42	This is a very important question, asked by many of you; I would also like to propose that you answer that now, even if I have the opportunity to come back to the matter later when I consider other amendments. We have an obligation to achieve results, since the Paris Agreement obliges us to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions. This is why the national low-carbon strategy and multi-annual energy programming plan to make our buildings as sober as possible in terms of energy. Similarly, the 2015 law aims to achieve a low carbon and energy consumption stock of buildings by 2050. If by 2028 we are renovating all of the thermal coffers – in any case the most energy-efficient dwellings – namely the 4.5 million dwellings classified as F and G, thanks to what the law defines as efficient renovations, and if we extend the path planned by renovating the other dwellings until 2050, my services have calculated that on these two dates we will have achieved our objectives: housing classified as A, B or C – because there will remain buildings classified as C – with the aim of obtaining a jump of two classes. Can we go further? Of course. Does our goal always consist of driving as many dwellings as possible to be classified A or B? Yes. The discussion of this text will allow us to bring all these concepts into line. Finally, with a view to overall coherence, we will have to continue working with Effinergie and all other actors on the definition of the BBC renovation label, based only on energy consumption, while the new DPE will also take account of carbon dioxide emissions. In any case, I would like to reassure you that our ambitions do not fall in any way with this text. On the contrary, we want a park that consumes little because, as the rapporteur said, the best energy is that which we do not consume. Thanks to the support for efficient renovations, thanks to the transition that it must allow from classes F and G to classes A, B or, in some cases, C, we will achieve our objectives of reducing the consumption and emissions of greenhouse gases.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u43	The rapporteur, Mr Mickaël Nogal, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u44	I, in turn, allow myself to intervene because the expectations on the subject are great. I agree with all the comments made by the Deputy Minister. Why, Mr Descoeur, is it important that we follow a double threshold logic with this new DPE that takes into account the carbon impact in addition to energy consumption? Previously, when we were talking about BBC, we considered only BBC, which was also the reference for classifying a dwelling between categories A and G. Tomorrow, thanks to the new DPE, some dwellings can be classified B for their energy consumption but only C for their carbon dioxide emissions. However, the new classification will retain only the lesser of the two labels. For this reason, C-classed dwellings may have energy consumption in categories A or B. I thank the Deputy Minister for the work that has been done to ensure that we are achieving the SNBC's goal of achieving a low-carbon and energy-efficient building fleet by 2050. Talking about classes A, B and C as part of the successful renovation already makes sense, and this will be even more so with the new DPE.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u45	I have before me three identical amendments, Nos 1744, 2510 and 6481. Mr Jean-Marie Sermier has the floor to support Amendment No. 1744.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u46	This amendment by our colleague Valérie Beauvais follows the discussion on the origin of carbon to be included in the greenhouse gas emission indicator (GHG): is it a fossil carbon or not? Our colleague proposes, in the second sentence of paragraph 2, after the word "carbon", to insert the words "of fossil origin". That makes it possible to appreciate the entire life cycle of a product: I am thinking of wood, with which we do not have the same result in the life cycle as in the direct value of emissions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u47	Mr Vincent Descoeur has the floor to support Amendment No. 2510.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u48	Since this amendment is identical to the previous one, I would like to take this opportunity to say to the rapporteur that I am personally, of course, in favour of the coexistence of the two levels of reading: energy performance and climate performance. What I would not like, and I would like you to reassure us on this point, is that the next day after the publication of the new thresholds, the number of thermal colanders will decrease without the start of work. That's my concern. Those who reside in the 4.8 million thermal colanders find themselves in a situation of discomfort and energy insecurity which is not satisfactory. They would not benefit from the fact that the mere announcement of the adoption of new criteria would have reduced the number of thermal colanders by one million.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u49	Amendment No 6481 by Mrs Marjolaine Meynier-Millefert is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u50	I'll reassure you, dear colleague Descoeur. Indeed, the executive insisted that the new DPE should not result in any decrease or increase in the number of heat sinks. So the perimeter doesn't change. We even have an additional ambition with the ban on renting E-rated dwellings from 2034 onwards. In addition, we adopted in committee an amendment by the Socialist and Related Group stating that the level of performance of the DPE would be expressed in kilowatt hours of primary energy per square metre per year in terms of energy consumption and kg of CO per square metre per year for induced EGEs. The vote on this amendment and the commitments made by the executive on the new DPE should therefore reassure you.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u51	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u52	We reason in the life cycle of a product, which means that we take into account all greenhouse gas emissions, regardless of their source. Certainly, when the energy is of fossil origin, it will emit much more than the others. Nevertheless, the amendments are satisfied with the method adopted. I therefore ask for their withdrawal, otherwise I will give an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u53	Mr Vincent Descoeur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u54	I have not yet had the opportunity to ask another question about the inclusion of greenhouse gas emissions. Will the heating methods considered today to be virtuous not be called into question? What about wood heating? Isn't the new classification a bonus for electricity? On the other hand, some will be condemned to change their oil boiler. So far, they have been left in the hope that they could acquire a module that would allow them to use bio-fioul. Isn't their housing going to be in class F or G?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u55	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u56	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u57	Even if greenhouse gas emissions are taken into account, wood remains favoured as it stores carbon in the first part of its life cycle. Even if it emits during combustion, its net emissions remain very low. We discussed this at length with all the representatives of the materials sectors at the time of the introduction of the new environmental regulations for new construction. Wood and electricity are low emitters; gas is more so and fuel oil is the largest emitter of GHGs in all heating modes.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u58	The rapporteur's amendment No 6113 is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u59	I have before me three identical amendments, Nos 2084, 2338 and 6482. Mr Vincent Descoeur has the floor to support Amendment No. 2084.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u60	We do not consider the new definition of class C housing to be very satisfactory.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u61	Amendment No 2338 by Mrs Delphine Batho is being defended. Mrs Marjolaine Meynier-Millefert has the floor in support of Amendment No 6482.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u62	We wish to continue the discussion on the definition of the different categories of housing. The actors involved in the energy renovation are concerned: the simulations carried out by your services, Madam Minister Delegate, show that the SNBC is tenable if the necessary work is carried out up to classes A and B and if only part of the buildings are content with category C. What we fear, moreover, is that individuals who will not be encouraged to reach Level A directly will not make this effort: to rely only on their good will, one may fail to meet the objectives and the trajectory defined in the SNBC. The challenge is to achieve a distinction between the two questions and to make it clear that, if category C is indeed a sufficient objective for part of the buildings, for all the others, it is indeed level A that must be achieved by 2050.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u63	Excellent amendment!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u64	What is the opinion of the committee on these identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u65	I will give an unfavorable opinion on these amendments to amend the titles of the energy performance classes. Why did we give up the name "performing" provided for in the original text? In order not to introduce confusion with the notions of efficient renovation and overall renovation also addressed in the text. According to the special committee's classification, Class A dwellings will be considered "highly performing", Class B dwellings will be considered "highly performing", and Class C dwellings will be considered "highly performing", while Class D dwellings will be considered "highly poor", so the labeling will be degressive from Class C. With regard to the objectives set out in the SNBC, the Minister for Ecological Transition, the Minister for Housing and I have been clear about this ambition, which we share: the class titles chosen will not change anything.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u66	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u67	It is also unfavourable. The objective of the selected classification was to establish a clear gradation between high-performance and non-high-performance housing. When we referred to the BBC label, the rapporteur confirmed that certain Category B buildings, currently labeled BBC, could, on an equal level of energy efficiency, be degraded to Class C under the new DPE, due to the inclusion of greenhouse gas emissions. Everyone therefore understands that the boundary between categories B and C will evolve with the entry into force of the new DPE, which will in particular affect the BBC label. It seems to me that the characterization of Level C as "fairly efficient" is in line with reality. This title does not call into question our ambition, namely renovations offering a gain of at least two classes and a systematic accompaniment, which will enable all housing units to reach, by 2050, level A or B – or even C, for the part of the park that starts from far away.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u68	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u69	The Minister of Environmental Transition described the issue of thermal colanders as a "major issue" in the bill. I fear that we are treating it in minor mode, like all those discussed in the text. Indeed, we are already starting from a very bad point of departure: the High Climate Council (HCC) points out that France has the worst energy balance in Europe in terms of its less efficient housing. We are discussing the new classification introduced by an amendment adopted in a special committee. In the past, however, we have seen several episodes in which, by changing the criteria, the number of thermal colanders has been reduced sharply. First, there was the new calculation, which in August 2020 increased the number from 7.4 million to 4.8 million, even though the HCC estimates that 6.7 million people are affected by energy insecurity. Then came the decree of 11 January 2021, according to which, from 2023 onwards, a dwelling will be described as energetically decent from a threshold expressed no longer in primary energy – of which it is known that it is the only one that can actually calculate the level of performance of a building – but in final energy. And now we are told that extending the definition of so-called "performing" renovations to work leading to level C, or even level D, does not lend itself to any consequence, because it is a simple question of semantics! That is not true: such a measure greatly changes things! According to an internal note from the Environmental Transition Agency (ADEME) published by the online journal Context, the consumption of the built stock would be two to three times higher than the national target set by the Energy Code if this definition of "performing renovation" were retained. So that's anything but annoyance. I would like to take this opportunity to support in advance the amendments aimed at returning to the original ambition of the text – they will, it seems to me, be discussed when we turn to Article 39b: I very much hope that, by then, the Government will review its position and return to the original wording, which reserved the term "performing" for level A or B buildings, without including categories C and D. This is far from being a mere drafting issue.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u70	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u71	I would like to reply to Mr Coquerel on this important issue, which deserves to be raised now. First of all, the High Council for the Climate actually finds that France is characterized by a very energy-intensive park, but this state of affairs is linked to the date of construction of the buildings, older in France than elsewhere: this data is not linked to the public policies carried out under this legislature – nor, moreover, to the previous ones. With regard to the number of heat sinks, a precise update of the number of very high energy-intensive dwellings was necessary to define our public policies. The statistical survey published last summer did not result in any change in criteria or methodology: it updated the previous survey, which dates back to 2012. As progress and work has been made during the reporting period, the number of housing units in categories F and G, which we use as a reference, has been reduced to 4.8 million. This figure will not change with the entry into force of the new DPE: it will remain exactly the same. Finally, if the decree of 11 January 2021, which provides for a first ban on the rental of the most energy-intensive dwellings from 2023 onwards, is, on a temporary basis, based on the concept of final energy, the DPE which is currently before the Assembly will take account of primary energy, as well as greenhouse gas emissions. The Order-in-Council, which is only an intermediate step, was made on the basis of an earlier text: we will, in the context of this bill, be mindful of the concept of primary energy. Contrary to what you say, we therefore use the calculation methods desired by the various entities concerned. For the rest, we do not change our ambition downwards: thanks to the objectives set out in the text and to the accompanying renovation that will be offered, we will be at the SNBC's meeting and we will be able to continue to promote the most demanding renovation possible, that is, that which allows us to obtain the BBC label, in full consistency with the proposals of the various bodies that are interested in these policies.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u72	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u73	You say "we can" and "we will". I simply note that by extending the definition of efficient renovations to Class C or even Class D housing, you are reducing the number of buildings to be renovated. Finally, I would like to believe in your promises, but I would remind you that, since 2017, about 300,000 energy renovations, of which only 50,000 concern thermal colanders, have been carried out every year. You will admit that we are far from the target of 500,000 annual renovations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u74	Mrs Marjolaine Meynier-Millefert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u75	I will be brief, but I think we are addressing one of the most important points in the debate on energy renewal. I would like to reiterate my appreciation for the fact that DPE is expressed in primary energy. Congratulations and thanks for lifting the ambiguity that persisted on this point: it is a crucial element. It should also be stressed that the integration of greenhouse gas emissions into the EDP is a real step forward and a very great step forward. My only concern is that a single label is used to designate energy classes A, B and C, which suggests that they would correspond to the same level of performance, whereas, unless I make a mistake, the SNBC will only be respected if part of the housing stock reaches levels A or B, even without any incentive to do so. The concern of a large number of actors, faced with a definition of categories A, B and C, is that the actors concerned are content to reach level C, while some of them should go as far as classes B or A. That is why there is a risk that our objectives will not be achieved. It is therefore essential that you undertake very strongly to encourage the French to target level A whenever possible, on the understanding that we will of course be content with level C where it is not.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u76	Mr Bruno Millienne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u77	I agree with what Mr Marjolaine Meynier-Millefert has said: this is really the central question of energy renewal. What we are most concerned about is not the new DPE: we are all looking forward to its arrival, so, let's face it, the old one was catastrophic – I am somewhat exaggerating, but as I explained to the minister, I have heard of several cases of buildings with a very advantageous DPE when they were, without a doubt, thermal colanders. However, we must urge the French as much as possible to move towards categories A and B. How can we ensure that work to achieve Level C is actually reserved only for cases where it will not be possible to do otherwise? For the time being, it is not yet very clear to us. However, we would like to get out of the Chamber with this guarantee, because it would be a real step forward, after years of gabegie in terms of aid for the energy renovation of buildings: let us be honest, we have devoted a package of billions to the payment of subsidies that were neither targeted nor budgeted upstream! If we had saved these sums, we would be asking ourselves fewer questions today.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u78	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u79	I will again take some time to answer this important question. I hear and share the points of vigilance raised by my colleagues. To answer, first of all, to the objections of our colleague Coquerel, the new DPE is not intended to change the number of heat sinks recorded in France: the rules of calculation will only be modified by the creation of the double threshold integrating the environmental impact of housing, which in my view is a step forward in relation to the existing law. Secondly, with regard to the definition of levels A, B and C, I repeat that, under the dual threshold, we will calculate energy consumption on the one hand and the carbon impact on the other, giving each of them a rating. The only label in the end will be the least good of both, which shows that we are ambitious and that we want to pull everyone up. How can we do that? By applying the triptych I mentioned in the introduction. First, we will ensure wider access to information, in particular, as we discussed with the elected members of the Group of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats, by integrating France service houses into the network and involving them in this massification of information. Then, in accordance with the proposal of Olivier Sichel's mission, which we will implement through section 43 of the bill, "renovation escorts" will be responsible for helping households by explaining what can be done in their homes. I would like to draw your attention, Mr Millienne, to the fact that we cannot hope that all the buildings will reach Class A tomorrow. We must of course set ourselves this objective, but we must take into account both the double threshold and the constraints on how the works can be carried out in a building, for example, whether it is an individual house or a condominium. The triptych combining information, accompaniment and financing will help to achieve the highest level of performance. I would be the happiest of men if we could, tomorrow, transform all the energy coffers into Class A housing, but I warn you that it is difficult, sometimes impossible, to perform this conversion, including by carrying out the six work stations provided for in an efficient renovation, such as attices or floor insulation – we will come back to this definition when we look at Article 39b. That is why it is important to affirm in the text that we aspire to accompany the French to housing with the highest level of energy performance, but at the same time to be realistic and to recognize that, as the building is what it is, we will sometimes have to settle for a level B or C. In any event, the ambitious goals of the SNBC and those we have set ourselves for 2030 will be met.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u80	Mr Vincent Descoeur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u81	This is a central issue. Since levels A and B are the main objective, we need to ensure that category C will not be an end in itself and find a way to include it in the text. That is why I will propose, with Amendment No 5874, to draw up a multiannual programme for thermal renewal, so that we can be well informed on the path ahead. I take back the metaphor of the archer. Our target is Class A and Class B buildings. If we add Class C buildings, we'll have a better chance of reaching them. But is this solution also satisfactory from a qualitative point of view? The question arises.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u82	Mr Julien Aubert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u83	As far as label development is concerned, attention must therefore be paid to how thresholds are to be set. If the performance is less good on one of the two criteria, it will necessarily pull the other down. It will be very difficult, due to such biases, to ensure that Class C accommodation would not have been classified differently if the barometer had been slightly different. On the other hand, I see a problem of consistency. I find it difficult to understand why it is announced, with regard to the fifth period of energy saving certificates, that the EEC would like to return to its original philosophy, i.e. only the fight against energy expenditure, whereas, at the same time, a new DPE is planned which includes the environmental objective. I would like an explanation from the minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u84	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u85	I would like to take some time to reassure the House on this important issue. Our goal is to have a low-carbon housing stock – both new and old – in 2050. I would remind you that about 30% of the buildings in service on that date will be new within the meaning of the current definition, that is, in accordance with the new regulations. This will allow us to reach Class A in almost all cases. Our goal is that, on average, the park will be around B in 2050. As new and advanced buildings are classified as A, and some of the others as B, they will be reached even if some buildings are in category C. You are asking how to ensure that renovations go as far as possible to achieve the best possible performance. First of all, a successful renovation, which forms the basis of the accompaniment, is defined – as we point out a little further – by a jump of at least two classes. Thus, it will necessarily allow half of the park, which is in class D or higher, to go at least in B. This is therefore a second lever. We have planned that the mandatory audits performed when selling a Class F or G dwelling will indicate the path required to reach Level B whenever possible. There are therefore always incentives to go as far as possible in energy performance. This pragmatic and balanced approach ensures good quality renovations. In terms of volume, 1.9 million housing units were renovated at least last year – taking into account the fact that a single housing unit can be assisted in a number of ways. Over the course of four years, the mass energy performance of renovations has increased by 50%, from a gain of 4.2 terawatt hours per year to 6.4. This proves that our renovations are becoming more and more efficient on a large housing stock. Thus, as long as the intended trajectory is respected and as long as it is accepted that certain dwellings do not exceed class C – knowing that the new class C of the DPE, given the integration of the carbon criterion into the diagnosis, corresponds in some cases to the old class B – the ambitious nature of this public policy is no doubt. As for energy saving certificates, they are aid intended to support a financing plan. But what really matters is the trajectory fixed, on the one hand, by the DPE and, on the other, by the accompaniment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u86	Mr Bruno Millienne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u87	Madam Deputy Minister, you will find me insistent, but you know that I care about the subject. I can hear all your arguments. In spite of all this, there is no real guarantee that the housing will systematically go above class C, either for technical reasons or because the people concerned do not want to undertake more work and use more state aid. In order to achieve our objective, I would prefer, as a matter of principle, that housing should reach Class A – which would be the best – and I would of course agree that some should only be classified as B or C, but only if the characteristics of the building prevent us from going beyond it. A level equivalent to the BBC level must be the minimum. I am well aware that the amount of aid that should be mobilised for this purpose is very high and that this would represent a huge annual budget. But recognize that the Government would honour itself to release some $15 billion a year for the renovation of buildings in France, which has not been done by previous governments. This would be a strong gesture, with which compliance with the national low-carbon strategy for 2028 would be guaranteed. If there is a sector that demands maximum effort on our part, it is that one. Such a measure would be more effective than the abolition of advertising aircraft, which would destroy 500 families and would be purely symbolic.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u88	Mrs Chantal Jourdan has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u89	I simply wish to support the amendments tabled. They seem essential to me if we are to achieve the objectives set.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u90	Even when they're not here, they're the majority! That's terrible!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u91	I have two identical amendments before me, Nos 93 and 1642. Mr Vincent Descoeur has the floor to support Amendment No. 93.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u92	It aims to recall that the objective of the DPE classification is also to guarantee the right of households to access energy and decent housing and to combat energy insecurity. The measures we have been discussing for an hour certainly benefit the planet, but they must also benefit the people who occupy the housing.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u93	Mrs Sylvia Pinel has the floor to support Amendment No. 1642.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u94	This amendment by Paul-André Colombani, co-signed by our group as a whole, aims to clarify that the aim of the energy qualification of housing is to reduce the energy consumption of buildings and greenhouse gas emissions, as well as the right of all households to access energy without excessive costs.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u95	What is the committee's opinion on these amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u96	The objective of combating energy insecurity is already included in the energy code and in the construction and housing code. It is not necessary to specify this in Article 39, which is intended only to provide a legislative basis for the diagnosis of energy performance. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u97	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u98	The objective you are referring to is that which we aim to achieve not only through Article 39, on the DPE, but also in the whole of Title IV. The aim is to ensure that the renovation is as efficient, operational and ambitious as possible, thanks to the introduction of the DPE, the prohibition on renting very low-performance housing, the provisions for accompanying or financing the remainder. However, I am not in favour of including these purposes in Article 39, because the purpose of Article 39 is only to define the DPE. Request for withdrawal or, failing that, unfavorable notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u99	Mrs Chantal Jourdan has the floor in support of Amendments Nos 3101 and 4266, which can be presented in a consolidated format.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u100	First of all, I would point out that there is a legal error in these amendments. I shall therefore confine myself to the summary statement of these amendments, by which we propose a plan for the energy renovation of the entire housing stock, whether it is rented or occupied by its owner. This planning would include the inclusion of Class E units in 2035, Class D units in 2045 and Class C units in 2050 among buildings with excessive energy consumption. It seems to us important to stick to these objectives, in order to guarantee the quality of housing – we will never repeat it enough – but also to give visibility to the building sector so that it can gain the necessary jobs. This is the subject of Amendment No 3101, with No 4266 being an amendment of withdrawal.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u101	What is the committee's opinion on these amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u102	He's unfavorable. First, you set a deadline of 2035 for Class E buildings. However, the new trajectory we have planned is more likely because it provides for a ban on the rental of Class E dwellings by 2034. On the other hand, with regard to the other deadlines, your requests seem to me to be met by the SNBC. Finally, your amendments, which mention only energy consumption, and not CO emissions, do not take into account the environmental impact, which is one of the two criteria of the DPE. The opinion is therefore unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u103	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u104	Beyond the legal question, I will answer you in substance. As the rapporteur has said, we have planned a graduated course. We shall also see it with amendments, such as No 5012, which will come later and which are in line with the spirit of your amendments, since they are aimed at progressively introducing rental bans, including for Class E. However, we cannot decide to consider housing at different levels, from the lowest to the highest, successively as buildings with excessive energy consumption. While we are going to be increasingly demanding, excessive energy consumption is also what defines today a thermal channel, i.e. the type of housing we want to tackle as a matter of priority. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u105	Mrs Chantal Jourdan has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u106	It is true that some of your forthcoming amendments provide for planning, but they only concern rented housing. For our part, we aim to increase the energy performance of all housing units.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u107	On Article 39, I am by the La République group in motion for a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. I have before me three identical amendments, Nos 933, 6485 and 6983. Amendment No 933 by Mr François-Michel Lambert is being defended. Mrs Marjolaine Meynier-Millefert has the floor in support of Amendment No 6485.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u108	The new DPE, which has been the subject of discussions among all stakeholders in the framework of the Higher Council for Construction and Energy Efficiency – the CESC – has been very much appreciated as it is an excellent tool for citizens. However, it was found that no information on the good performance of the equipment was available to households. The performance diagnosis is therefore based on a theoretical evaluation without taking into account the real functioning of the housing, which is a problem.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u109	Mr Xavier Breton has the floor to support Amendment No. 6983.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u110	In addition to what our colleague has just said, I would point out that the departments of the Ministry of Environmental Transition have indicated that they have not been able to incorporate the indicators on the performance of the equipment in the revised DPE, given the short delay before its entry into force on 1 July 2021. That is why we propose that this work be done within six months of the passage of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u111	What is the opinion of the committee on these identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u112	I will ask our colleagues to withdraw them because they are in my opinion satisfied. I will let the minister delegate complete what is happening on the regulatory side in the framework of the project initiated by the executive through this new DPE. But I would point out that the isolation of dwellings is well documented and in some detail in the law: Article 134-2 of the Construction and Housing Code provides in particular that the performance and quantity of energy consumed by the various equipment is specified. These indicators therefore appear clearly in the DPE and I do not think it necessary to clarify this again today.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u113	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u114	I too believe that these amendments are satisfactory since the new DPE, which will come into force on 1 July next, incorporates specific indications on the performance of insulation, characterised by an overall loss coefficient of the building which has been improved. The equipment, on the other hand, is described with its characteristics and date of installation. Request for withdrawal or otherwise unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u115	I'll take it off.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u116	I put rule 39.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u117	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 52 Number of votes cast 39 Absolute majority 20 For adoption 37 Against 2
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u118	I have before me a number of amendments to the supplementary article after Rule 39. I call Mr Philippe Meyer to support Amendment No. 3352.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u119	Article 605 of the Civil Code provides that the usufructuary shall be liable only for maintenance repairs, the major repairs remaining the responsibility of the owner. Under section 606, "The major repairs are those of large walls and vaults, the restoration of beams and entire blankets. That of the dykes and walls of support and fence also in full. All other repairs are maintenance. » The work to be carried out by the nu-owner is therefore limiting and does not include energy renovation work. As a result, it is not encouraged to invest in such works and thus to reduce the number of energy sinks. The work which may be carried out is necessarily the responsibility of the usufructuary, whereas in many cases the usufructuary is an elderly person who does not necessarily have the income to take care of them and that does not necessarily make sense to him at this stage of his life. The energy renovation works should therefore be able to be taken over by the nu-owner, who is more sensitive in the long term and who receives the necessary resources to finance them. In the current state of law, he tends to put his work back on the day he becomes a full owner. Thus, this amendment, which I believe to be of common sense, proposes to include energy renovation work in the major repairs referred to in Article 606 of the Civil Code in order to allow the nu-owner to invest in this type of work.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u120	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u121	Although the issue of usufructors and nu-owners is the dead end of energy renovation, your amendment would not achieve the objective. First of all, I would like to point out that the two can already agree on the designation of the contractor and on the financing of the works. Secondly, it is important to know how to make existing aid available to them, bearing in mind that, for example, MaPrimeRenov' is not available to each other today. But, subject to what the minister delegate will say, it seems that this premium will be open to usufructors, which will already be a step forward. The relevance of leaving this work to the usufructuary instead of the nu-owner can be discussed, but it would pose legal and enforcement problems, particularly with regard to accompanying the National Habitat Agency (ANAH). We need to be very careful about that. However, I am in favour of stepping up this aid, even if I leave it to one or the other to use it. I know that a project is under way to resolve these particular cases, and I would like to let the minister in charge give you more details. I suggest that you withdraw the amendment, but I call on the Government to move forward on this matter by acting on a regulatory basis.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u122	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u123	The purpose of your amendment is to place the work "to gain at least three levels of energy performance" at the expense of the Nu-Owner. Apart from the fact that there would be a problem of consistency since the bill takes as a criterion a leap of two performance classes and not three, the amendment proposes an option that already exists without really making it an obligation and is therefore not fully in line with the spirit in which you supported it. In addition, as the rapporteur mentioned, MaPrimeRénov' will be open to usufructers from 1 July, which will allow them to obtain funding for energy renovation work. Perhaps it is necessary to review the respective roles of the nu-owner and the usufructuary in the matter of renovation, but I believe that the subject is not fully mature. It will therefore be a request for withdrawal or, if not, an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u124	Mr Philippe Meyer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u125	Thank you for these answers, Mr rapporteur, Madam Deputy Minister. It is a good thing to open to the usufructuary, from July, access to MaPrimeRenov'. But we still have to realize that the nu-owner is usually the most motivated to carry out work of this magnitude. It's a bit too bad not to go any further. I am prepared to withdraw the amendment if you commit yourself to discussing this issue again. The aim is to make progress in the energy renovation of the housing units concerned, and that those most motivated to do so are encouraged to invest in this area.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u126	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u127	I'm committed to it, Congressman. It is with pleasure that I will continue to exchange with you on this subject, knowing that discussions are continuing with the Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u128	Mrs Marjolaine Meynier-Millefert has the floor in support of Amendment No 6471.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u129	Let me return for a moment to the previous discussion: our colleague's amendment reminds me of a mechanism that we had envisaged to make possible the temporary transfer of property to a company making energy renovation so that it can finance the work on the basis of rental logic. We did not manage to build a mechanism that holds the road, but that would be an interesting point to dig into when considering the finance bill. As for my amendment, it aims to appeal to the Government: unfortunately, we have only a very low rate of BBC renovation every year and we know that it needs to be increased, as we also know that companies need, in order to organize themselves, visibility on the masses represented by these global renovation markets; It is therefore requested that a decree fix, each year and for the next five years, a minimum forecast percentage of overall and efficient renovations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u130	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u131	I will allow the Deputy Minister to complete my response to this appeal amendment. First of all, I stress that energy performance, which is characteristic of the BBC label, must no longer be the only reference since with the double threshold on which the new DPE is based, we no longer reason only from energy consumption but also from now on by taking into account carbon impact. Secondly, the objectives of efficient renovation and overall renovation have been discussed at length in committee and I believe that we all share them. We will soon be considering two amendments, tabled by the Government and myself, to provide for programming in this area. You have pointed out one important point, Mrs Meynier-Millefert: it is indeed necessary to bring visibility to the sector in order for it to structure itself. However, many of the provisions contained in this bill, be it the new DPE, the information and support of those concerned and the significant financial commitment of the State, are already likely to reassure the industry on its possibilities to hire in the coming years and to encourage it to develop in order to meet the ambitious challenges posed by the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u132	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u133	Madam Member, I am taking this amendment, as you yourself have said, as a call to adopt a vision, an ambition, in this case in terms of programming, to know how to encourage our companies to carry out efficient renovations. This will be the subject, as the rapporteur has said, of identical amendments Nos 6927 and 6620, which we will support, respectively. It is indeed important to state in the law that this public policy must be carried out in a long time, that it is coherent and socially fair, and that it requires in this respect to pay particular attention to those whose means are weaker to enable them to carry out ambitious and efficient renovations. However, it would not be possible to fix by decree a percentage of the renovation of a particular level because it would not necessarily be clear whether the household was still entitled to the aid or not. Request for withdrawal or otherwise unfavorable opinion, but to the benefit of this discussion on the programming that will follow.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u134	We come to three amendments which may be the subject of a joint debate. Mrs Véronique Louwagie's amendment 196 and Mr Thibault Bazin's identical amendments 3019 and Mr Jean-Marie Sermier's amendments 6978 are being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u135	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u136	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u137	This is an important subject, but it has already been dealt with quite broadly first in the preparation of the national low-carbon strategy since the methods used for calculating primary energy conversion coefficients and the carbon content of electricity have been made public at consultation meetings and all documents are now available. They are, moreover, largely derived from European directives. These parameters will soon be incorporated into regulatory texts, in particular through the regulations currently being consulted on the future environmental regulation of new buildings. The opinion is therefore against a legislative framework.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u138	Mrs Sandrine Josso has the floor to support Amendment No. 5010.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u139	While it is essential that the energy performance diagnosis shows the share of energy needs covered by renewable energies, this must be done without discrimination between different sources. This share should therefore include locally captured renewable energy sources and energy distribution networks.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u140	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u141	This is a welcome addition from our colleagues in the Dem Group to whom I will give a favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u142	Amendment No 3765 by Mr Romain Grau is not defended. The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u143	Madam President, I would like to take up Mr Grau's amendment, which introduces very useful editorial coordination.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u144	Amendment No 6476 by Mrs Marjolaine Meynier-Millefert is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u145	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u146	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u147	Disadvantaged too, because he is satisfied.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u148	Mrs Marjolaine Meynier-Millefert has the floor in support of Amendment No 6479.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u149	This amendment is complementary to the amendment to include in the law the thresholds relating to the DPE, while being more subtle. The technical characteristics of the DPE could indeed be subject to regulatory review, but subject to the application of a non-climate-regression logic. What worries me is that we can change the thresholds of the DPE and change this very important monitoring tool when it will, in a way, be the thermometer of energy renovation. The possible downward revision of the thresholds could result in thermal colanders no longer being considered as such. The idea is to be able to change, at the regulatory level, the characteristics of the DPE if and only if it is more so, without any possible reversal, so that tomorrow, for example, the carbon thresholds or the energy performance thresholds cannot be lowered.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u150	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u151	I know our colleague's commitment to the principle of non-regression, since we have had the opportunity to discuss this subject at length. Your amendment seems to me satisfied: the law for the reconquest of biodiversity, nature and landscapes of August 8, 2016 – and I take this opportunity to welcome the work of Minister Barbara Pompili – has introduced into the environmental code a principle which provides that "the protection of the environment, provided by the laws and regulations relating to the environment, can only be the object of constant improvement, given the scientific and technical knowledge of the moment". The Constitutional Council, in its decision on this Act, stated that "this principle is required, within the framework of the legislative provisions specific to each subject, to the regulatory power". DPE is therefore fully in line with the principle of non-regression and continuous improvement. Request for withdrawal; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u152	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u153	The same unfavourable opinion: guarantees concerning the principle of non-regression are already included in other texts. Moreover, given the technical complexity of the DPE – taking into account primary energy consumption and greenhouse gases; modulations for cold zones, etc. –, it would be very complicated to decline this type of general principle.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u154	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u155	The intention seems quite interesting to me. Indeed, the principle of non-regression, for which our colleague is advocating, responds to the need for stability and confidence. We will therefore vote for this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u156	Mrs Marjolaine Meynier-Millefert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u157	I would like to explain more clearly the purpose of my amendment. The sector's players are concerned that carbon sobriety could be favoured in the future, at the expense of sobriety in terms of energy consumption. In a global climate transition logic, a non-regression principle applicable to both scales would prevent more attention from being given to the issue of carbon, and less to energy savings. Some of the actors really need to be reassured about this.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u158	Identical amendments Nos 2760 by Mrs Véronique Louwagie and 7095 by Mrs Martine Leguille-Balloy are being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u159	Mrs Marjolaine Meynier-Millefert has the floor in support of Amendment No 6488.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u160	It aims to post in the real estate advertisements an estimate of the cost of the works to reach the BBC level, in order to make this information accessible to potential buyers.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u161	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u162	The opinion will be unfavourable for several reasons. First of all, real estate announcements must necessarily mention the DPE, which, in its new version, gives an indication of the expenditure related to energy consumption. When consulting the DPE, therefore, there is clear information and real visibility on what housing can represent in terms of energy expenditure. On the other hand, posting an estimate of the cost of the work directly on the real estate advertisements could blur the message, while we want to strengthen the reliability of both the information and the DPE. Information on the cost of work in the EPD is a useful first range, but it remains indicative. Here too, let us pay attention to the information that is provided without making things more complex than they already are. Finally, in the current state of the law, all prospective purchasers can already request communication from the DPE and obtain this information. Your amendment is therefore partly satisfactory, and the amendments you are proposing do not seem to me to be appropriate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u163	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u164	I understand the intention, but I think that your amendment does not make it possible to go in the way you want. You want to see more clearly the cost of the work to be done when buying a dwelling, especially if it is classified as F or G. However, the DPE works by class and the cost of work per square metre for a dwelling classified as F or G will be very different according to its characteristics: is it classified as such because of the heating or because of its structure? The date of construction is also to be taken into account. Thus, the range of the cost of the work will be very indicative, and very broad. Secondly, renovation aid would not be mentioned, but the gross cost of the work could be frightening. Taking into account the various aids – MaPrimeRenov', energy saving certificates or other local aid – gives a better idea of the budget. This information, which cannot be included in a real estate advertisement, is available in another document: the energy audit, the communication of which will be made mandatory from the first visit, as foreseen by an amendment which will be discussed later. At the time of the first visit of a property classified as F or G, and even E tomorrow, the prospective buyers will be provided with an audit document summarizing all the energy and climate aspects of the housing, which will indicate the path, steps and budget needed to complete a successful renovation, including to reach level B and, above all, to get out of the F or G classification and the status of energy passerby. The document will specify the cost of the work, mention the existing aid, the right to accompaniment, etc. This will provide the purchaser with an energy label on the announcement, information on consumption – since the DPE will focus on average monthly energy consumption – and an audit showing exactly the nature of the work to be carried out, their indicative cost and the aid available. The whole will be more effective than mentioning a range of work costs on an advertisement, which could be misperceived and make the sale of the housing concerned more difficult. Our goal is not that the owners find themselves with their houses on their arms, but that the work can be done. For all these reasons, I am really against the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u165	On the Government's amendment No. 6927, I have a request for a public vote before the Group of the European People's Party (La République en marche). On sub-amendment No 7394, which deals with Amendment No 6927, I have a request for a public vote before the Socialist and Related Group. Votes are announced in the National Assembly. Mr Vincent Descoeur has the floor to support Amendment No. 5874.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u166	As mentioned in the report of the fact-finding mission, this amendment by the Group of the European People's Party The Republicans propose to use multi-annual programming of the thermal renovation of the social housing stock in order to stagger the work and provide dedicated funding. For your information, I had tabled, along with other colleagues, a broader amendment that was not limited to the stock of social housing. The objective was to have a multi-year programming law, which would have several interests: to be able to assess the pace of renovation work; to take stock of the objectives of the climb in class; and, of course, the question of the financing and effectiveness of the tools available to households.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u167	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u168	Your amendment seems to be satisfied in the sense that social donors are already developing multi-annual programming of the work to be carried out, and that they are signing agreements with the State to ensure that the objectives are achieved. Request for withdrawal; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u169	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u170	Same opinion. On the general subject of programming, I refer you to the Government's amendment No. 6927, which will be presented in a few moments. With regard to specific programming for social housing, many mechanisms already require donors to establish multi-year programming for renovations. This is particularly the case with conventions of social utility, not to mention the commitments they make elsewhere. The amendment is therefore satisfied.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u171	Mr Vincent Descoeur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u172	I wanted to make it clear that this amendment is limited to the rental stock, since the other amendment that I tabled was considered inadmissible. However, the question asked is the question of programming.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u173	I have before me five amendments, Nos 6385, 6927, 6620, 5767 and 6371, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 6927 and 6620 are identical and are the subject of sub-amendments Nos 7394, 7369 and 7370. Mr Jean-Charles Colas-Roy has the floor to support Amendment No. 6385.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u174	Renovation of buildings and housing is an essential tool to reduce our country's greenhouse gas emissions. Title IV, "Accommodation", contains good progress in this regard; Many are the result of the work of the Citizen's Climate Convention that I want to welcome. The President of the Republic has set out a road map: to achieve the objective of renovating the 4.8 million thermal colanders within ten years, without however going through a renovation obligation for the occupants. To achieve this without obligation is to commit to multi-annual programming of the renovation, with assurance on the consistency of the resources allocated and the aid allocated, in particular for the most modest ones, by targeting the remainder at zero charge. This is what we do every five years with the multi-annual energy programming, France's energy roadmap; We also need to do this with regard to the renovation. That is the meaning of the two amendments that I am defending. In addition to the long-term path and commitments, the energy renovation of buildings is based on several pillars: simplicity and stability of aid, control of the services performed, training and labelling to break the territory of skilled craftsmen and companies. Sobriety and energy renovation of buildings are crucial for meeting our environmental objectives, but it is above all a social justice issue: it is the most modest of us who live mostly in these thermal coves. Many millions of our fellow citizens still live in energy poverty and are struggling to heat up. With this law, make the ecological transition an opportunity for social justice, green job creation and land use planning.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u175	The Minister has the floor to support Amendment No. 6927.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u176	Mr Colas-Roy, we are in the same state of mind; You and Mrs. Peyrol were part of the Sichel Taskforce. We want to establish consistency between the path of achieving the energy renewal objectives of the housing stock and the system of public support to accompany households in this work. Indeed, it is necessary to register in time: the entire profession is in the process of starting to accompany these renovations – training courses, new lines of bio-sourced materials – and professionals must have sufficient visibility to say that it is worth starting and training since efficient renovations will continue to benefit from state aid. The social dimension is also important: the remaining burden must be as small as possible, if not non-existent for the most modest households. All of this must achieve our greenhouse gas emission reduction targets, but also provide people with more comfortable housing, where they will live better. We have decided to introduce this coherence through this amendment. The law of 8 November 2019 introduces a multi-year energy programming law from 2023, which will have to be voted on every five years. This law of programming will determine the objectives and priorities for action of the national energy policy to respond to the environmental and climate emergency. We therefore point out that, in the area of housing renewal, programming is based on the implementation of a system of progressive public aid, based on the resources of households, which is based on a concern for social justice, as well as an increased incentive for ambitious energy renovations. The aid scheme aims in particular at creating the conditions for a financially sustainable remainder for the most modest beneficiaries, in particular when the work is accompanied by or approved by a State operator. The idea is to allow as many people as possible to use the Renov' escort to carry out ambitious renovations. We are thus building a coherent scenario, based on the programming enshrined in the law and voted every five years by Parliament, guaranteeing visibility for all.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u177	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 6620.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u178	This is, for me, one of the most important points of the bill. I would like to thank the Minister and the Deputy Minister, who have tabled an amendment identical to mine, but also Jean-Charles Colas-Roy and Bénédicte Peyrol, because our joint work with the Government also takes over the one carried out by the Sichel Taskforce. I introduced the triptych that will allow us to succeed in the energy renovation. With this amendment, the Government is making a strong commitment. I also thank Bruno Le Maire, the Minister of Economy, Finance and Recovery, as well as the Prime Minister, because it is a whole team that is committed to supporting energy renewal. It is not within the framework of a finance bill or a programming law, but the creation by the executive of a stable system of public aid is well enshrined in the law.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u179	Promises only bind those who believe them!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u180	In order to respond to Ms.Meynier-Millefert's objections, the renovation must be accompanied by visibility. This commitment of the State is very much expected.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u181	What commitment? They're just promises! Don't make us take the bladders for lanterns!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u182	I am therefore more than in favour of this amendment – that is why I have tabled an identical one.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u183	Mrs Chantal Jourdan has the floor in support of sub-amendment No 7394.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u184	It is intended to clarify that the system of public aid for renovation must be directed towards a remainder with zero charges. Much emphasis is placed on this issue because many modest households will not undertake renovations if they do not have the assurance that they will have only a symbolic sum to pay. If they have to pay at least 5% of the cost of a total and efficient thermal renovation of 40000 euros, or 2000 euros, this sum can prove to be resuscitatory. There is a need to understand the constrained situation of some households and to remove this obstacle to the objective of ecological renewal.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u185	Mrs Sylvia Pinel has the floor in support of sub-amendments Nos 7369 and 7370, which can be presented together.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u186	I am very much in favour of the Government's amendment and the rapporteur's amendment. Indeed, it is essential to ensure the stability and visibility of the aids in order to succeed in accompanying the transition. Nevertheless – that is the meaning of the two sub-amendments that I propose – it seems to me necessary to clarify several points. Sub-amendment No 7369 states that the aim of the State aid scheme for energy renewal is not only to create the conditions for a financially sustainable remainder for the most modest beneficiaries – the subject of Amendments Nos 6927 and 6620 – but also to encourage households to use renovations. A sustainable balance is essential to encourage households to engage in energy-saving work, but this is not enough. Indeed, work to improve the energy efficiency of buildings is often long and tedious, discouraging some individuals. Moreover, while this work has an impact on energy bills, the return on investment is time-consuming and difficult to quantify when it is decided to launch them. Therefore, it is necessary that the aid system not only reduce the remaining burden, but also encourages households to undertake energy-saving work, through financial incentives and better support. As for sub-amendment No 7370, he proposed that the rest should be financially sustainable for all households engaged in energy renovation, not exclusively for the most modest households. The latter, of course, must be targeted as a priority, but if we are to achieve the objectives we share, we must go further.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u187	Amendments Nos 5767 by Mrs Bénédicte Peyrol and 6371 by Mr Jean-Charles Colas-Roy are defended. What is the Committee's opinion on all the amendments and sub-amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u188	Opinion in favour of the Government's amendment No 6927 and my identical amendment No 6620, and of Subamendment No 7369; opinion against other sub-amendments and amendments. Mrs Pinel's sub-amendment No 7369 is a welcome clarification. The stable system of public aid enshrined in the law must indeed encourage and encourage households to lead the overall and efficient renovation of housing. Enlargement to all households, on the other hand, seems to me to be excessive. The public aid system also has a vocation of social justice, so it is legitimate to target, in particular, modest households. I would remind you, however, that the MaPrimeRenov' system is open to all owners, regardless of their income.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u189	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u190	I would like to thank Jean-Charles Colas-Roy and Bénédicte Peyrol for their participation in the Sichel Taskforce: they have contributed, together with the rapporteur and the minister, to the drafting of a programming amendment which we are presenting to you today and which we believe is crucial. Without going back to the arguments already mentioned, this is the Government's opinion: in favour of identical amendments Nos 6927 and 6620; request for withdrawal of Amendments Nos 6385, 5767 and 6371. As far as sub-amendment No 7394 is concerned, Mrs Jourdan, I understand the idea of saying that we have to go to the lowest possible balance, but it has been found that in some cases offers at 1 euro have rather created unnecessary work and scams. In addition, last year, while the MaPrimeRenov' scheme had been made accessible only to modest and very modest households, within the meaning of the ANAH scales, two thirds of the 200000 cases dealt with concerned very modest households. Now that it is open to 100% of the French, these households still account for 40% of the beneficiaries. The current system, with a very limited remainder for very modest households, allows them to do work. The scheme will be further improved with the adaptation of the advance loan transfer – WFP – to the financing of the remainder, which we will discuss later. I am therefore against this sub-amendment. I am in favour of Mrs Pinel's first sub-amendment, No 7369 – it is important for the aid system to encourage work – and against the second, No 7370, because this system is intended to target particularly the poorest households, less the most affluent ones.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u191	Mr Vincent Descoeur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u192	I am pleased to see that the idea of programming has come its way and I still believe that the thermal renovation of buildings would deserve a multi-year programming law. The planned measures target very modest households, which, as everyone acknowledges, face the greatest difficulty when it comes to undertaking renovations. The Sichel report refers to one remaining charge in the order of 5%. Without entering into a semantic debate on qualifications, I believe that these households will not embark on the work if the rest of them do not move towards zero. Euro 1 offers have indeed been the subject of drifts, but we can reasonably imagine that modest households who, in addition to the renovation of their housing, will also have to consider changing their car or heating mode, will not follow if we are not more ambitious. There is also a shortage of all others, particularly the modest and intermediate households. A global renovation represents 50,000 euros for a house, 12,000 euros for an apartment; The measures adopted must be more incentiveful. For example, middle-income households that have to go to thresholds A and B must be accompanied. Those who wish to put their housing at BBC level will have to undertake work and it is a pity that they are not included among the beneficiaries of the amendment. In total, the proposed device appears to me to be too reducing. Yes, it is necessary to accompany the very modest households – I would even tend to say that they should be accompanied even more – but it is imperative to imagine something for the modest and intermediate households, who will also have to renovate their housing to raise it to a higher class.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u193	Mr Michel Vialay has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u194	Several colleagues, including Vincent Descoeur at the moment, have mentioned this: it is essential to take account of household resources. It also seems to me necessary to ensure that the thermal renovation of housing does not create situations of energy insecurity. Some renovations may require a change in the heating or hot water system, which may result in a significant increase in household energy bills. The ecological transition and its energy component cannot be sustainable without taking this risk into account. That was the meaning of an amendment that I tabled, which was declared inadmissible. In keeping with the spirit of previous exchanges, the decrees you will have to make must make sure that the renovation will not put modest households in trouble.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u195	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u196	I also welcome the establishment of multi-annual programming for such a policy. It's necessary. Do we need a dedicated law? Perhaps, but to include programming in the law we are considering is already a good thing. On the other hand, I support Mrs Jourdan's sub-amendment. There is a very strong correlation between thermal colanders and the precariousness of the inhabitants.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u197	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u198	Without a policy that closely links the two by ensuring the progressivity of the aid and a balance of zero for the most modest, we will not succeed. It is often on this pitfall that we kill. I would take just one example – everyone here could cite countless – that of modest retired workers who have taken out a loan to buy housing, find themselves in retirement with a considerable loss of income and are reassured by having a roof on their heads but can only support their vital needs. We can always explain to them that investing in energy transition works will save them in heating costs, but this remains to be proved: it happens that savings due to a decline in consumption are quickly swallowed up by the rise in energy prices – in short, they are savings, if not fictional, at least modest; I have several specific examples in mind. Secondly, the obstacle to the realization of the works lies in the rest of the unbearable burden for people who have no margin in their budget; This is the case for modest pensioners, but also for many employees. So I think it's absolutely necessary to put the remainder's zero-load lens in the trajectory.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u199	Mrs Chantal Jourdan has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u200	The EUR 1 renovations were most often fraudulent and it goes without saying that my amendment is not intended to favour them. We hope that the proposed public service, strengthened, will enable all households to be properly accompanied. As far as the rest is concerned, it is unthinkable for many households – we all know – to invest 1000 or 2000 euros. The remainder is therefore a hindrance to renovation projects. Finally, poorly housed people often find it difficult to imagine that they could improve their comfort of life and, as a result, do not plan to spend 1000 euros, a sum they would gather with difficulty, to finance renovation work. That is why I very much want this sub-amendment, and I hope that efforts will be made in this direction.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u201	Mrs Marjolaine Meynier-Millefert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u202	Let us not overlook the founding nature of this amendment. With Vincent Descoeur and the members of the information mission on thermal renewal, but also with the ministers, we fought for a multi-year programme of energy renewal. Here we get two times five years of visibility for all actors: it is an absolutely essential measure and I know that it will be applauded in all territories. Let's just say it's a nice thing that's happening here. If I were pointy, I would add that it would be very opportune to encourage not only the efficient renovation, in the definition of the rapporteur, but also the BBC renovation, because why should we not carry both subjects?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u203	Mr Pierre-Yves Bournazel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u204	The Group of the European People's Party welcomes the progress made by the amendment by the Government and the rapporteur, which will give stability and visibility to the various actors; We can take pride in voting. It is also about social justice and we will vote in favour of Mrs Pinel's sub-amendment No 7369. I hear the arguments of the Government and the committee on the Socialist sub-amendment and Mrs Pinel's second sub-amendment, but I am not insensitive to the arguments of their authors...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u205	He's right, you mustn't be insensitive!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u206	... because I know, in order to receive them for many years in my permanence, that people of modest condition sometimes give up lighting the heating because they live in thermal colanders and that the financial effort seems to them to be too difficult. The more we help these people, the more social justice is done and the more progress we can make in the area of thermal renewal. In my personal capacity, I will therefore vote in favour of these sub-amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u207	It's social investment!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u208	Mrs Sylvia Pinel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u209	I thank the rapporteur and the minister for their favourable opinion on sub-amendment No 7369. Their amendment is important. Households, when they do not undertake renovation work, tell us about the maquis of the aids but above all about the uncertainty surrounding the possible sustainability of the devices. With the amendment, they are offered the stability and predictability necessary to produce quick and useful effects. I understand that there is a hierarchy between the public and it is not I who will challenge the arguments based on social justice and solidarity towards the most modest, but the rest of the burden continues to be a problem, despite the work carried out for several years already under the previous quinquennium. The meaning of the sub-amendments is, as I said, to add an incentive dimension but above all to leave no one on the edge of the road, in particular by looking at the rest of the load, which is often a brake. Perhaps we will be able to return to it during the shuttle, we must be reassured as to the rest to be charged. You will improve devices, Mrs Pompili said the other day, and I am in favour of it, but those who listen to us need concrete clarification.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u210	Mr Vincent Descoeur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u211	Is the sub-amendment which has received a favourable opinion well point 7369, which is the incentive?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u212	Yes, and the next one that includes all households.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u213	Let us therefore consider that multi-annual programming is a first step, and that the incentive subamendment will pave the way for more households and allow the path and pace of these renovations to be measured. This is certainly not perfect, but we will vote in favour of the sub-amendment and the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u214	Mr Jean-René Cazeneuve, rapporteur-general, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u215	I, too, support this important amendment, which, although we were not considering a finance bill, says a lot about the stability of public commitments, their duration and visibility – ten years – as well as social justice, which is one of the elements since it refers to a "remaining financially sustainable for the most modest beneficiaries", and that is without limit. It is therefore perfectly possible to imagine that the most modest ones may have a remainder at the expense of zero.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u216	It's better to say it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u217	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u218	That's enough, we have to move forward in the discussion!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u219	Mrs Jourdan and Mrs Pinel took the time to defend their proposals on this important subject. I am open to our discussion in the space shuttle, but I believe they are satisfied. On the one hand, sub-amendment No. 7369 provides for the incentive in question and, on the other hand, the amendment by the committee and the Government makes it clear that it is "a stable system of public aid adjusted according to household resources". We therefore take into account the ability of households to undertake renovations based on their income. Finally, there is the reference to "a financially sustainable remainder". The proposed wording thus allows for the support of the households of the last deciles, those for whom to spend 500 or 1000 euros would be unbearable, and the Government will also announce other measures later. I therefore propose the withdrawal of sub-amendments Nos 7394 and 7370 and the adoption of point 7369. A very good signal would be sent if the Assembly voted unanimously on this version of the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u220	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u221	MaPrimeRenov' already responds to the various proposals, in the spirit, since this scheme is open to all households without conditions of resources and helps those whose resources are less important, and the care can then reach 90%. During my travels, I met many families who managed to make these renovations. I would add that the two sub-amendments Nos 7394 and 7370 are hardly compatible with each other, since the first is aimed at ensuring that the remainder is "as low as possible" and the second is sustainable for all households; I am not sure whether the adoption of both would make the drafting of the text coherent.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u222	So we have to adopt ours!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u223	I therefore take up the rapporteur's proposal: we are in the same spirit and ready to rework this point during the shuttle. If the amendment were adopted, it would be a very good signal.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u224	Mrs Sylvia Pinel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u225	I will withdraw sub-amendment No 7370 because it is a withdrawal. You have rightly pointed out that certain schemes are aimed at everyone and are progressive according to the financial capacity of households. I am very much in favour of the rapporteur's idea of improving drafting during the shuttle, hoping that we will send this beautiful signal.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u226	Mrs Chantal Jourdan has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u227	I maintain my sub-amendment because I think it is important to send this signal on the rest to households, hoping that they will be able to undertake renovation projects.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u228	I put to the vote sub-amendment No 7394.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u229	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 66 Number of votes cast 56 Absolute majority 29 For adoption 14 Against 42
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u230	I put to the vote the identical amendments Nos 6927 and 6620, which were not amended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u231	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 69 Number of votes cast 65 Absolute majority 33 For adoption 64 Against 1
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u232	There was more enthusiasm for euthanasia!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u233	Mr Vincent Descoeur has the floor to support Amendment No. 5875.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u234	While it refers to the possible introduction of a multi-year planning law on energy renovation of buildings, which will not take place, it also raises the important issue of governance of energy saving certificates. Both the fact-finding mission we conducted with Marjolaine Meynier-Millefert and the commission of inquiry chaired by Julien Aubert showed, if necessary, that these tools, which are one of the levers of the policy of public aid for thermal renewal, have not always been of remarkable efficiency. We have thus referred to the work of isolation at 1 euro, the validity of which has been called into question. The amendment seeks to address governance and the relevance of EWCs in the context of a programming law.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u235	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u236	The amendment is satisfied. On the one hand, the EECs are undergoing a major reform within the framework of the fifth period of EEC obligations in the regulatory field. On the other hand, the programming law that you call your vows will be passed in 2023. I invite you to withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u237	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u238	The programming law will include provisions relating to the EWC. I invite you to withdraw your amendment; If I don't, I'll give you an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u239	Amendment No 6484 by Mrs Marjolaine Meynier-Millefert is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u240	Mrs Aude Luquet has the floor to support Amendment No. 5009.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u241	For several years, some territories have urgently needed to free up power on their grids in order to cope with peaks of consumption in winter – this is particularly the case in the Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur region. To address this problem, the amendment proposes a five-year experiment, during which the use of low-carbon energy mix – green electricity and green gas – would be promoted for the construction of new housing. Beyond the objective of reducing greenhouse gas emissions, this experiment would open up more opportunities for waste from local authorities and create employment. This amendment is the result of exchanges with the Smart AVENIR énergie collective.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u242	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u243	I have already given an unfavorable opinion in the special committee. I am not in favour of a region-specific experiment. In substance, although I welcome the work done on this issue with local authorities, bio-sourced materials are already included in the environmental regulation 2020 – RE2020: the more bio-sourced materials are included in a housing, the more value it is valued. Given that the amendment is, from this point of view, satisfied and that I am against experimentation, I express an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u244	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u245	I invite you to withdraw the amendment. RE2020 will apply from 1 January 2022 ; It will make it possible to realize the required qualitative leap which is absolutely necessary, especially for households in a situation of energy insecurity in the metropolis of Aix-Marseille-Provence. The RE2020 contains all the elements that will solve the problem.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u246	I have before me three identical amendments, No 2959 corrected, 3086 corrected and 4045 corrected. Mr Pierre-Yves Bournazel has the floor to support Amendment No. 2959, as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u247	It is the result of a joint work with the French Federation of Bicycle Users – FUB. It aims to integrate the evaluation of safe parking for bicycles into the overall calculation of the energy performance of buildings, to promote the reduction of greenhouse gases and sobriety in the consumption of energy resources. The performance of a building must also be assessed in the light of the modes of transport which are encouraged; the virtuous calls virtue. I defend this amendment with conviction.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u248	The identical amendments No 3086 corrected by Mr Eric Pauget and Mr Robin Reda's corrected amendments No 4045 were defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u249	Even if I hear our colleague's wish, the aim of the DPE is to inform about energy consumption and the carbon impact; It is not intended to measure other data. In addition, the parking of bicycles has been the subject of good progress in Title III. I therefore invite you to withdraw your amendment; If I don't, I'll give you an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u250	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u251	Same opinion. EPD is used to measure energy consumption and greenhouse gas performance. The modes of transport of course contribute to this consumption, but the evaluation of bicycle parking does not have its place in the DPE. In addition, I refer you to Title III, in which progress has been voted on.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u252	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 6115.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u253	It follows on from the discussions we had in the special committee on the effectiveness of the display of DPEs. We talked about real estate ads: property professionals and administrators are obliged to display the DPE. The private rental stock is divided into two parts; Two thirds of the housing units are the subject of individual-to-individual transactions, with owners choosing to manage their own property. The purpose of this amendment is to create an obligation to display and to provide for penalties that would be imposed on individuals who do not properly display the DPE, in order to make the private rental fleet coherent. Thus, there would no longer be a distinction between French people who wish to manage their property from individual to individual and those who entrust its management to real estate professionals.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u254	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u255	I am very much in favour of this amendment, because the park is indeed divided between the intermediation sector, which is administered by real estate professionals and that which is managed by private individuals on-line; it is very important that it be subject to the same rights and obligations. I would add to the rapporteur's remarks that we have engaged in a dialogue with the major platforms linking individuals, so that they can apply this provision as quickly as possible; They were very open.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u256	I have before me a number of amendments, Nos 4006, 4161, 4616, 5063, 4708, 2795, 4275, 4707, 6499, 4270, 4615, 6827, 4005 and 4166, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 4006 and 4161 are identical, as are Amendments 4275 and 4707, Amendments 4270, 4615 and 6827, and Amendments 4005 and 4166. Amendment No 4006 by Mr Robin Reda is being defended. Mr Stéphane Peu has the floor to support Amendment No. 4161.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u257	I will defend it at the same time as the withdrawal amendment No 4166, which will be called at the end of the joint debate. I do not go back to the challenges of the energy transition, which not only helps to combat energy insecurity, but also provides a lever for economic recovery – we will need it in the coming months, as we know – and environmental action. In its conclusions submitted to the President of the Republic, the Citizen Climate Convention proposed the introduction of an obligation to carry out work at the time of the changes and a malus on the property tax. This proposal was rejected by the President of the Republic on the grounds that the French do not all have the same means to carry out this work and engage in this transition. Moreover, it would disrupt the real estate market too much, he said. We do not share these arguments because no one proposes to pursue a proactive policy of global renewal, without at the same time introducing powerful aid schemes, particularly in the direction of the most modest ones. To carry out such an action, fiscal policy must be up to date: according to the Climate Action Network, approximately 4 billion public funding per year would be needed to succeed in renovating the only energy channel by 2030. A few months ago, our Socialist colleagues tabled an amendment to introduce a repayable advance payment from ANAH, which included a remaining charge which, if still too high, was progressive according to the means. If we are in favour of the introduction of a zero-load balance for the most modest, the initiative of our colleagues showed that it was possible to design much more ambitious arrangements to go further, faster. My two amendments, drafted in connection with the Fondation Abbé Pierre, aim to introduce a conditional obligation for efficient renovation by 2024, with a view to a comprehensive approach. The challenge is to reconcile the decline in the level of emissions from the housing stock and to combat energy insecurity. I will not go back to the weight of the energy bill on modest households, nor to the fact that thermal colanders are most often occupied by modest households, whether they are tenants or owners. These amendments propose a stronger ambition to combat both energy insecurity and thermal colanders.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u258	Amendments Nos 4616 by Mr Matthieu Orphelin, 5063 by Mr Jimmy Pahun, 4708 by Mr Matthieu Orphelin and 2795 by Mr David Lorion are defended. Mrs Chantal Jourdan has the floor to support Amendment No. 4275.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u259	I will defend Amendments Nos 4275 and 4270. They aim to clearly define the efficient and comprehensive renovations. Indeed, the definition given by the bill seems to us to be insufficient. On the one hand, we propose to define the efficient renovation as the one that achieves the BBC or equivalent level, on the other hand, the overall renovation as an efficient renovation, carried out by a single work operation, allowing the processing of interfaces between the work stations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u260	Amendment No 4707 by Mr Matthieu Orphelin is being defended, as is Amendment No 6499 by Mrs Marjolaine Meynier-Millefert. On the identical amendments Nos 4270, 4615 and 6827, the Socialist and related groups have asked for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Amendment No 4270 by Mrs Chantal Jourdan has been defended earlier. Amendment No 4615 by Mr Matthieu Orphelin is also being defended. Mr Loïc Prud'homme has the floor to support Amendment No. 6827.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u261	As Chantal Jourdan said, these amendments under joint discussion tend to favour the overall renovation of buildings, which requires a precise definition of this concept, otherwise we do not know exactly what it is. The aim of this amendment is therefore to include in the text that the efficient renovation will achieve the BBC standard or equivalent, and that the overall renovation – or "complete and efficient" renovation – must be carried out in a single stage of work. There is an urgent need to accelerate our rate of reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, which is currently twice the rate set by the national low-carbon strategy. The pace of energy renovations of buildings would have to be multiplied by five from 2022 and by ten before 2030 in order to achieve our objectives. To do this, the support schemes, now worth EUR 4 billion, will have to be quadrupled, if possible within the framework of global renovations, which are most likely to reduce emissions immediately and massively. It should be noted that the High Climate Council recommends that this type of renovation be given priority. In fact, his recent work, as well as those of ADEME, warns us of the ineffectiveness of an approach by isolated gestures, such as a change of boiler by this one, a change of windows by this one or a isolation of attices, and of the risks of pathologies that these gestures generate, such as the creation of thermal bridges during the laying of presses if the whole envelope of the building is not concerned. It is therefore imperative that we agree on these definitions. It is only about setting a framework in the bill, Madam Deputy Minister, so we know what we're talking about. I remember that in the special committee you were not in my opinion with regard to the overall renovations – which I see – but I think we could at least agree on the clarification of their definition as well as on the clarification of the efficient renovations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u262	Amendment No 4005 by Mr Robin Reda is being defended, while Amendment No 4166 by Mr Stéphane Peu was previously defended. What is the committee's opinion on these fourteen amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u263	It is against all the amendments submitted to this joint debate. In a few minutes, I will be presenting an amendment, No 6123, which aims to clarify the concepts of efficient renovation and overall renovation which we have introduced in the special committee. With regard specifically to your amendment No 4161, Mr Little, it is intended not only to define these concepts, but also to make it compulsory, from 2024 onwards, for the buildings to be renovated efficiently during the façade raids. As I said earlier, we are making the choice not to accept this proposal, which is the result of the Citizen's Climate Convention. Indeed, we want coercion to apply only to owners who rent their property and therefore engage in a commercial approach, in order to differentiate them from owners occupying their housing.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u264	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u265	The purpose of these amendments is threefold. First, they aim to define what a successful renovation is. As the rapporteur has said, he will propose, by his amendment No. 6123, a definition of this concept, as well as that of overall renovation. For my part, I say that the efficient renovations, as defined by the rapporteur's amendment following the special committee, will enable us to achieve the objectives we have set ourselves in the framework of the national low-carbon strategy. Indeed, a successful renovation aims to achieve a gain of at least two energy classes and to reach class A, B or C within the meaning of article L. 173-1-1 of the Construction and Housing Code. In this regard, for the many households that make partial repairs, it should not be said that they are of no use, for that is not true. When you remove a boiler from the oil or when you make insulation of walls and ceilings from the outside, you usually achieve energy improvements and thus substantial savings. Yes, you have to reach the most efficient classes, but I will not oppose the efficient renovations to the overall renovations. As regards the former, I will therefore stick to the definition laid down by the Special Committee, which will be supplemented by the rapporteur's amendment. As far as global renovations are concerned, as I said, Amendment No 6123 also seeks to define them. These will include renovations to cover the six work stations in 18 months. Finally, as the third issue raised by these amendments, I disagree with the obligation to proceed with the renovation of housing proposed by the Citizens' Climate Convention. I would like to make a clear distinction between the landlords, whose commercial approach is legitimate but towards whom we can have requirements as to the nature of the property they lease, and the landlords occupying their housing, for whom a renovation obligation is not necessary. In fact, 1.9 million renovations have already taken place every year and these owners are only waiting to be able to renovate their housing – which brings us back to the question of the accompanying arrangements. The compulsory renovation under conditions of housing and the associated sanctions provided for in these amendments therefore seem to me to be very complicated to introduce, while we will achieve the same results through simple incentives and private financing of the rest. The system which the amendments seek to introduce would in the end apply to very few goods, only at the time of the changes and on such a large number of conditions that the obligation to renovate would never be effective. Our robust system of obligation for landlords and incentives for homeowners therefore seems sufficient to me. I therefore give an opinion which is unfavourable to all the amendments, pointing out that the definition of the concepts of efficient renovation and overall renovation will be clarified by Amendment No 6123.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u266	Mrs Chantal Jourdan has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u267	To our amendments to give priority to global renovations, you are replying, Madam Minister, that individual renovations already allow energy improvements. This is certainly the case, however, as Mr Prud'homme pointed out, the High Climate Council considers that their effectiveness is still quite limited. In addition, according to your definition as it appears in the text, for renovation to be considered effective, this implies the gain of two energy classes, which we feel is insufficient. As many of us have said, if a renovation is to be considered effective, it must be able to achieve the BBC standard. Finally, focusing on global and efficient renovations is also important for the visibility of the building's trades. As we know, this type of renovation involves new professions, new ways of imagining construction and transdisciplinarity.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u268	Mr Loïc Prud'homme has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u269	I wanted more precise and ambitious definitions. Madam Deputy Minister, I am sorry, but the rapporteur's amendment is quite inadequate and will not allow the precise definition of a comprehensive and efficient renovation. As for the figure you quote of 1.9 million renovations a year, I would be curious to know your source, because the one I have is four times lower. Perhaps there are renovations that are taking place in hiding, but, in any case, I find your figure surprising.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u270	I put to the vote identical amendments Nos 4270, 4615 and 6827.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u271	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 59 Number of votes cast 57 Absolute majority 29 For adoption 14 Against 43
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u272	Mrs Sylvia Pinel has the floor to support Amendment No. 1095.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u273	This amendment by my colleague François-Michel Lambert aims to ensure that the work carried out in stages – often because of lack of financial resources, as we mentioned earlier – will be taken into account in the definition of efficient renovation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u274	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u275	It is unfavourable because this amendment will be satisfied by the new definition of efficient renovation which my amendment No 6123 will allow to be included in the text. As we can see, the amendments that we are currently examining illustrate the debate between those who want renovations to be considered effective only if they are carried out in a single operation and those who are advocating to include renovations carried out in stages.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u276	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u277	I will make that clear when I present Amendment No 6123, and I am in favour of the second option. Moreover, for a renovation to be considered comprehensive and efficient, it will have to be carried out within 18 months, but always with the possibility of carrying out a series of works. Indeed, we know that a renovation will be all the more effective as it will have been carried out in a short time, but I do not believe that the works carried out at once should be distinguished from those carried out in stages.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u278	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u279	This amendment will be fully satisfied by Amendment No 6123 by the rapporteur, which aims precisely at clarifying the concept of efficient renovation, which is the first objective to be achieved, by not providing for a maximum duration of work. This will not be the case with global renovation, the ultimate target to be achieved when possible, which, in turn, will have to be concentrated in time. In both cases, carrying out the work at one time will not be mandatory. I therefore call for the amendment to be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u280	I have before me six amendments, Nos 6504, 4135, 2464, 6503, 4268 and 6123, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 2464 and 6503 are identical. Amendment No 6123 is the subject of sub-amendment No 7378. Amendment No 6504 by Mrs Marjolaine Meynier-Millefert is being defended. Mr Vincent Descoeur has the floor to support Amendment No. 4135.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u281	It aims to make the treatment of the six jobs mandatory so that a renovation is considered to be effective and that energy classes A and B are equivalent to the BBC standard.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u282	Amendments Nos 2464 by Mrs Delphine Batho and 6503 by Mrs Marjolaine Meynier-Millefert are defended, as well as Amendment No 4268 by Mrs Chantal Jourdan. The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 6123.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u283	I will focus for a moment on the definitions of the concepts of efficient renovation and overall renovation, which are important and expected. In the special commission, we had written in the text that a successful renovation is a renovation allowing the achievement of class A, B or C and – cumulatively – a gain of at least two energy classes. For example, if the renovation of a D-class building is to be considered as performing, it will need to be upgraded to Class B. In addition, thanks to the rapporteur-general's sub-amendment, and following wide-ranging consultations, including with associations, the fact that the study of the six jobs in energy renewal is fully integrated into these cumulative criteria. The definition of efficient renovation therefore includes reaching classes A, B or C, jumping from two energy classes and studying the six jobs without which it is not possible to reach classes A, B and C. As far as the amendments tabled by my colleagues are concerned, I am against them, in particular Mr Descoeur's, because, I repeat, the BBC must no longer be the only reference to qualify energy renovation, including efficient renovation; there are other aspects to be taken into account.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u284	The rapporteur-general has the floor to support sub-amendment No 7378.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u285	[[Smile on the benches of the commission]] This sub-amendment complements the rapporteur's amendment by adding a third cumulative criterion defining efficient renovation. It enhances in a way the ambition of this amendment, which, in itself, enhances the ambition of the article, which enhances the ambition of Title IV, in order at last to enhance the ambition of the law.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u286	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u287	I am in favour of the rapporteur's amendment, which was sub-amended by the rapporteur-general, and against the others. The rapporteur's amendment sets out a balanced ambition while clarifying the definition of efficient renovation: renovation is now described as performance when there is a gain of at least two classes, if one reaches classes A, B or C and if one relies on the study of the six energy renovation jobs; A successful renovation is global when it is carried out in less than 18 months and when the six jobs have been processed. This is expected to allow me to have a park with a satisfactory level of performance, first in 2028, the first milestone of the national low-carbon strategy, and then in 2050. To answer Mr. Prud'homme's question, the Office of the Commissioner-General for Sustainable Development (CGDD) must, at the end of the month, publish a study on the number of dwellings that have undergone renovation financed by an aid or a grant, whatever – energy saving certificates, tax credit or MaPrimeRénov'. While, so far, it was not possible to identify the aid granted under the various schemes if there were not twice the same housing, this study eliminates double counting. We already have the first figures, which indicate that the number of renovated dwellings is 1.9 million compared to 1.6 in 2018. This is progressing, but both will soon have the opportunity to conduct a critical reading of the study themselves.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u288	Mr Jean-Luc Fugit has the floor to support Amendment No. 6219.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u289	This amendment clarifies the wording of Article 39b, in order to ensure that all dwellings undergoing efficient renovation have satisfactory conditions for the renewal of air. Indeed, the current wording may suggest that all dwellings already enjoy satisfactory conditions of air renewal. However, this is not entirely the case, since a report by the Indoor Air Quality Observatory indicates that more than 20% of dwellings are not equipped with any particular equipment. Air renewal plays a role in indoor air quality, and thus in the air quality of the occupants of these homes, which can have an impact on their health. It is therefore essential that the definition of efficient renovation incorporates the obligation to achieve satisfactory conditions for renewal of the air.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u290	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u291	I take this amendment to commend the work of our colleague Jean-Luc Fugit at the head of the National Air Council. The precision he is proposing is very welcome, and I am very supportive of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u292	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u293	Opinion in favour of this amendment which makes it possible to clarify a very important point.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u294	Mrs Laurianne Rossi has the floor to support Amendment No. 4151.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u295	Through this amendment, I propose to add an acoustic dimension to the definition of efficient renovation. We talked earlier about the noise with François Pupponi; I will go back to that with this amendment. It turns out that the most energy-intensive dwellings are also almost always the least soundly isolated. Acoustic renovation must therefore be an integral part of the efficient renovation. As President of the National Noise Council, I would like to point out that the fight against air pollution is inseparable from the fight against noise pollution. Together with Jean-Luc Fugit, who is president of the National Air Council, we are working together on these issues, because the sources of air and noise pollution are often the same and the solutions are complementary. That is the reason for this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u296	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u297	Unlike Mr Fugit's amendment, which provided important drafting precision, since it was a matter of ensuring good indoor air quality, your amendment makes it more difficult to define efficient renovation and overall renovation. It also carries the risk of making these definitions inapplicable. It is therefore a request for withdrawal or, failing that, an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u298	You haven't been heard, Mrs. Rossi!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u299	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u300	I'll give you the same answer as Mr. Pupponi. Noise is a real problem, especially for those who are particularly exposed to it, and it is important that the support in improving housing takes it into account, as is the energy aspect. This should be included in the roadmap for this personalized support, which is intended to enable the development of a work programme that meets the needs of the occupants of the housing with financing solutions. On the other hand, the definition of efficient renovation is based on the different classes of the DPE and on the work stations covered by the DPE which do not incorporate the acoustic dimension. It is therefore not appropriate for me to address this subject here, when it has its full place in the accompaniment. It is therefore also a request for withdrawal.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u301	Too bad!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u302	Mrs Laurianne Rossi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u303	I will go to your arguments and withdraw my amendment. Nevertheless, I want to stress the acoustic precariousness which goes hand in hand with the energy precariousness and in which several million of our fellow citizens are locked: 10 million Frenchmen, in fact, are exposed to sound levels far above the permitted thresholds. Beyond the environmental problem, it is a public health problem, and the pathologies associated with exposure to this noise pollution, which poisons the daily lives of many of our fellow citizens, cost France 57 billion euros each year. I therefore fervently hope that noise pollution will be apprehended as it is and that it will be subject to public policies at the same level. There has been talk of aid matching, and it is obviously in this sense that we must go. This is what the Airport Harm Control Authority (ACNUSA) is doing for the areas included in a GSP. Let's go further and use the DOAR windows – facilitating, accompanying and informing for energy renewal – to further pair its aids and support our fellow citizens for the thermal and acoustic renovation of their homes. Again, air pollution and noise pollution are part of the same fight.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u304	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u305	Amendment No 6122 of the Committee is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u306	Mrs Marjolaine Meynier-Millefert has the floor in support of Amendments Nos 6507 and 6502, which can be put together.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u307	I would have strongly supported the amendment on the noise of Laurianne Rossi, because it is a problem that we tend to pass by. Many studies are being carried out on the subject, but, while considerable progress is being made on air quality and noise, we are still trampling. The rapporteur's definition of efficient renovation provides a response to the ADEME's observation that 75% of renovations have no effect on the energy class jump. It was therefore essential to include in the law a definition to ensure that there would no longer be an effectless renovation. However, the definition of renovation must not only reflect the means, in this case the six posts to be processed, but also indicate the results to be achieved. It is well understood that if the six posts are handled without any objective perspective, the renovation will always be ineffective. It is therefore necessary to clarify clearly what objectives we wish to achieve for the park in 2050 in order to be able to support, if necessary, the necessary aid.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u308	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u309	Disfavorable to both amendments. The new definition of the successful renovation that we have just adopted, based on three cumulative criteria, is very ambitious and is fully in line with the path set by the SNBC by 2050, but also, closer to us, by 2030, which this bill is looking forward to. Finally, you propose to add a definition of complete renovation, which seems to me to be a source of confusion. We have the same objective, namely to achieve the highest level of energy performance, but the definition we have adopted provides for it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u310	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u311	We have two definitions: a definition of the target, with the efficient renovation, and a definition of the process with the overall renovation, which requires to reach six jobs in 18 months. We will then have to push the system to the maximum, but I cannot let it be said that we lack ambition;...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u312	Yes, I do!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u313	... on the contrary, since we aim to renovate our entire park massively,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u314	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u315	... and that new constructions will be subject to the RE2020. It is therefore a request for withdrawal or an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u316	Mrs Sylvia Pinel has the floor to support Amendment No. 2354.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u317	It aims to introduce, from 1 January 2024 onwards, a conditional obligation of efficient renovation for the reclamation of the façades of the buildings. It is proposed to strengthen existing obligations, which currently contain many exceptions. This obligation would apply provided that there is a technical and financial offer in the territory concerned.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u318	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u319	We have already detailed the reasons for the Government's choice, which I share: as a result of the work of the Citizens' Convention, we have made the choice to prohibit leasing rather than create an obligation, whether conditional or general. The degree of coercion we retain is not what you propose. Request for withdrawal; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u320	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u321	Amendment No 6489 by Mrs Marjolaine Meynier-Millefert is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u322	The rapporteur's amendment No. 6132 is a co-ordination amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u323	I have before me three amendments, Nos 5012, 4271 and 4272, which can be discussed jointly. Mrs Aude Luquet has the floor to support Amendment No. 5012.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u324	The aim of this amendment by my colleague Florence Lasserre is to set up an energy audit schedule for single-property housing buildings offered for sale, staggered according to the housing performance. The proposed schedule will initially target energy sieves – classes F and G – and then class E. A report to Parliament will make it possible to draw up an interim assessment of the implementation of this obligation and to consider the conditions for its extension.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u325	Mrs Chantal Jourdan has the floor to support Amendments Nos 4271 and 4272.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u326	Amendment No 4271 is an amendment coordinating with the one we tabled in Article 39 on the planning of renovations. It provides for the obligation of an energy audit according to the same timetable. Amendment No 4272 provides that an energy audit will be carried out and communicated in the event of an offer for sale of a building or part of a housing building of classes E, F and G.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u327	What is the committee's opinion on these amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u328	Opinion in favour of Amendment No 5012 and against the other two. Amendment No 5012 is a good step forward. Making auditing mandatory for Class E buildings is a good thing...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u329	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u330	...which will allow us to speed up. The energy performance diagnosis, the audit and the multi-annual work plan for condominiums are in the direction of better information to the public, which I was talking about earlier. Very favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u331	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u332	Also in favour of Amendment No 5012, which provides for an energy audit for E-class dwellings as early as 2025. Opinion unfavourable to the other two.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u333	Mr Raphaël Gérard has the floor to support Amendment No. 1825.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u334	Without challenging the objective of combating energy insecurity that affects millions of our citizens, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the spirit of massive renovation that accompanies this bill is likely to contradict, in some cases, the logic of preserving heritage. In fact, owners who wish to sell their property in order to meet the Article 40 energy audit obligation could be encouraged to use conventional tools to measure the energy performance of their buildings and to identify, where appropriate, the work to be carried out. However, conventional tools are not always suitable for the renovation of the heritage building. On the one hand, standardized renovation works could promote pathologies and weaken the sustainability of this heritage. For example, we see the adverse effects of renovations on wood-paned houses in the 1970s and 1990s using modern techniques such as plaster dubbing, plastic flooring, insulation in rock wool or polystyrene. Buildings that had remained healthy for several centuries have deteriorated impressively in about forty years, which now results in very high costs for their owners. On the other hand, in the case of buildings located in a remarkable heritage site or within the perimeter of the vicinity of a historic monument, the works are subject to specific authorisation procedures, with requirements to safeguard the architectural and landscape quality of the building. Not only would non-compliance with heritage specificities expose owners more often to litigation because of the conflicts of standards created by article 40, but it would also jeopardize programs to revitalize old centres such as "City-City Action" and "Small Cities of Tomorrow", which make the heritage and quality of the environment a factor in the attractiveness of the territories. For all these reasons, I think it is useful to make it clear that the proposals for work which can be made in the context of the energy audit must be compatible with the requirements of the Heritage Code. This would allow for a more concerted approach and promote a comprehensive approach to the renovation of the old building that takes into account both cultural and ecological issues.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u335	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u336	Mr Gérard, thank you for your amendment and welcome the work you have done on this subject. I share your concern for better consideration of these issues. The opinion is therefore very favourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u337	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u338	[["Ah! »on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] This is indeed an important subject. It will probably be necessary to revise the wording of the provision a little bit during the shuttle, but that does not prevent me from giving a favourable opinion too.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u339	This will delight heritage lovers.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u340	Amendment No 4617 by Mr Matthieu Orphelin is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u341	Amendment No 6828 by Mrs Mathilde Panot is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u342	I have before me two amendments, Nos 4273 and 5011, which can be discussed jointly. Mrs Chantal Jourdan has the floor to support Amendment No. 4273.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u343	It is intended to require that the proposals made in the energy audit cover work to achieve at least Class C, i.e. the "fairly efficient" level.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u344	Mr Bruno Millienne has the floor to support Amendment No. 5011.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u345	It deals with the same subject, but its object is a little different: it is intended to require the development of a proposal for work allowing at least to move from class F or G to class D, rather than class E. As a result of financial constraints or time constraints, some owners may be tempted to complete only the first step proposed in the audit. It must therefore demonstrate a minimum of ambition by aiming at at least a "average" energy performance, in order to contribute more to the achievement of the ambitious national targets for the thermal renovation of buildings.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u346	What is the committee's opinion on these two amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u347	The SOC amendment would require that Class C should be addressed, while the Dem amendment would require Class D to be addressed. I would point out that Article 40 deals with the energy audit and that the course of work proposed in the audit will, under the terms of the article, provide for two stages: the first stage will allow the transition from class F or G to class E – the primary objective being to end the energy passory; the second, to reach at least class B. I understand the intention, but, in my view, the demand is met, as the work path proposed in the audit will indeed aim to achieve the highest energy performance. I therefore express an unfavorable opinion on both amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u348	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u349	My position is identical to that of the rapporteur. The energy audit will have to propose an ambitious option, i.e. an efficient renovation allowing preferably to reach class B; It shall also provide, failing this, for a first step from class F or G to class E. However, the work required to reach class E can already be heavy and quite costly. It would be too demanding to require the first step to reach Class D or C, knowing that, in any case, the audit will also propose the ambitious scenario – that is its very principle. In some cases, it is possible to carry out first a first stage of work and then a more ambitious stage. This option should not be ruled out, especially since owners can choose to do without advice and the accompanying route. The opinion is therefore unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u350	Amendment No 2849 corrected by Mrs Jaël Braun-Pivet is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u351	Amendment No 4155 by Mrs Laurianne Rossi is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u352	Mr Raphaël Gérard has the floor in support of Amendments Nos 1826 and 1824, which can be presented together.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u353	They aim to raise the Government's awareness of the need for an inter-ministerial approach to the renovation of the building, in particular the old building. Indeed, the results of the BATAN study – on old buildings – funded by the Ministry of Environmental Transition reveal that conventional tools and software used for new construction are not suitable for measuring the energy performance advantages of traditional buildings. Thus, there is a gap of 1.5 to 5 between actual consumption and theoretical consumption measured by the traditional DPE. As a result, some old buildings will be classified as energy coves without taking into account the actual behaviour of the frame in terms of thermal comfort. In addition, if work is carried out that does not take into account the specific characteristics of this building, these buildings may develop pathologies and fail to achieve the objectives set by the law. A comprehensive and responsible approach, such as that promoted by the resource centre for the responsible rehabilitation of the old building, should therefore be taken into account in relation to the old building, which allows for the consideration of technical, cultural and environmental issues. That is why I propose either to transpose here the derogation set out in Article L. 111-10-4-1 of the Construction and Housing Code, which provides that the provisions on energy performance are not applicable "to buildings which, because of their technical, architectural or heritage constraints, cannot be renovated to achieve consumption below the threshold mentioned [at the beginning of the article]", or to devote other tools to support the decision than the future DPE, in particular dynamic thermal simulation. This allows us to really measure the behaviour and needs of the traditional building, by evaluating the summer comfort, and to project this behavior at 10 or 20 years of age according to the canicular assumptions. The idea is not to call into question the objective of the energy renovation of the old building. But it is a matter of implementing the appropriate solutions to each situation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u354	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u355	This time, Mr Gérard, I give an unfavorable opinion to the two amendments, although I understand your concern to adapt the measures planned to make them as concrete and realistic as possible, particularly with regard to the building and its quality. With regard to the DPE, there is already an exemption for places of worship and historical monuments, which applies to the building itself. As far as housing is concerned, it is important that the DPE and the energy audit be known to all owners and tenants, including old buildings – as I mentioned earlier in responding to your colleagues in the Dem Group, the DPE and the audit must become the rule, be automatic. I am not in favour of exempting a certain type of building; It wouldn't be a good signal. Especially since regulatory responses exist for these buildings.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u356	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u357	With respect to the DPE, article R. 134-1, which appears in the regulatory part of the Construction and Housing Code, provides for an exemption for historical monuments. We would go too far if we exempted from DPE an entire category of housing, knowing that DPE is only one of the elements that underpins energy audit and decision support. I therefore express an opinion against Amendment No 1826. Amendment No 1824 provides for a derogation from the obligation to carry out the energy audit. Amendment No 1825, which you have just adopted, clarifies the scope of this audit in the case of buildings with technical, architectural or heritage constraints. Moreover, the audit is useful for decision-making. I therefore call for the amendment to be withdrawn, otherwise I will be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u358	Mr Erwan Balanant has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u359	I take note of the arguments of the Deputy Minister and the rapporteur, but I am in line with Mr Gérard. There are old houses and buildings, mostly built before 1900, on which we did anything for many years. It was made thermos by insulating them from the inside, completely forgetting that their walls breathed and had certain qualities. A 19th century Breton farmhouse has thermal qualities different from those of a house built in the 1970s. We have to work in a completely different way on such houses. However, many mistakes have been made, for example by insulating them with placoplaster or glass wool – as Mr Gérard said. We've created messes: the houses have become damp; They deteriorate very quickly due to water infiltration into the beams. This is particularly the case in my constituency in Brittany.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u360	At the same time, in Brittany, humidity is not abnormal...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u361	We must therefore be very careful. These houses need to be renovated – on this point, I support the position of the delegate minister and the rapporteur – but this can be done in a different way. We really need regulation to take these issues into account, otherwise we will face new disasters on this type of house.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u362	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, With the global warming that you are preparing for us, the problem will soon be solved in Brittany!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u363	Mr Raphaël Gérard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u364	I thank Mr Balanant for his support. The aim of these two amendments is to draw the Government's attention to the need for cross-cutting work between the various ministries: programmes, financed by the Ministry of Ecological Transition, make it possible to focus on the specificities of the old building; the programmes "Action cœur de ville" and "Small cities of tomorrow" are supported by the Ministry of Territorial Cohesion and Relations with Local and Regional Authorities. If the imposition of a DPE prevents the renovation of all or part of the building, including RPDs (remarkable heritage sites) or town centres, it's good that something doesn't work. If housing is prevented from being rented, there will be two options: inappropriate energy renovation, with the symptoms and pathologies that are known in the old building, or desertification of the city centres. Let's be consistent! The diagnosis I refer to – the STD (dynamic thermal simulation) – is more suitable for the old frame, but also much more expensive. A coherent and fair policy would probably be to accompany this type of diagnosis, finer and more suitable for the pre-World War II building, and to support in the city centres not only more energy renovation, but also better quality renovation. In any event, I hear your comments and stand at your disposal to discuss them, before the second reading. This is a real subject, which I ask you to take into consideration. I withdraw both amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u365	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-12-O1244.u366	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one hours: Further discussion of the draft law on combating climate change and strengthening resilience to its effects. The meeting is adjourned.
