ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u1	The next item is the question to the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u2	Mr Bertrand Pancher has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u3	"It was still dark, and we saw that the water entered the canoe from the back. A group started to get caught. [...] We then called the French police [...] but they told us: "You are in British territory, we can't do anything." We then called the British, but they said, "No, call the French" [...] That's when people started to fall into the water. So, to save them, we stood by the hand. [...] The sun had risen, but we could not hold. People just stopped holding hands, and they all fell into the water. They're dead. » These words are those of Mohammed Ibrahimzadeh. This 21-year-old Kurd is one of the few survivors of the tragedy that left at least twenty-seven dead last Wednesday in the English Channel. I want to talk here about these men, these women, these children who aspired to a better life, and who died for wanting to realize this dream. We cannot accept that so many lives are the subject of these political postures and cynical calculations, which form the basis of some presidential candidates. For my part, I cannot accept that fraternity has become a crime. Yes, we have to fight networks, smugglers. Yes, Frontex needs to be strengthened. But where are the real common, lasting solutions for the Mediterranean, the English Channel or the Belarusian forest to cease to be cemeteries? Let's get out of truncated debates, instrumentalized polemics, hate speech. France is beautiful when it radiates its humanistic values. It must be at the forefront, particularly in Europe, and put the disastrous Dublin regulation to a standstill. [[Applause on the benches of the LT, SOC, FI and GDR groups, as well as on several benches of the Dem group]] The only thing that counts is the overall vision. What additional means are you planning to allow a welcome finally worthy of migrants in our country? When are we going to stop these inhuman ping-pong games?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u4	The Minister for Environmental Transition has the floor. [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] I would point out that Mrs Barbara Pompili represents this afternoon the Prime Minister who, I would remind you, was declared positive at Covid-19. Her speaking time when she spoke in that capacity was therefore not limited.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u5	On behalf of the Government, I would first like to think about the men, women and children who lost their lives trying to join the United Kingdom from northern France. We can only be deeply touched by these human tragedies, and we act so that they do not happen again. We fight against the networks of smugglers, who feed on human misery. Interior Minister Gérald Darmanin announced the strengthening of air surveillance on the Opal Coast, which will include the engagement of a Frontex aircraft and two additional helicopters from the Ministry of the Interior this week. In order to dismantle these networks, it was also decided to increase the use of specific European bilateral investigative mechanisms with certain countries. Moreover, these tragedies raise the question of cooperation with our British neighbour. Whatever our disagreements, we will not change geography: it is in our common interest to work together to solve this problem. But it takes two to cooperate. Good intentions are displayed in private and invectives launched in public: we must get out of the double discourse and engage in serious work. The French Government was prepared to do so. With regard to irregular immigration, it is not the Touquet agreements that prevail, but the Sandhurst Treaty. It is on this basis that we coordinate our operational action. I remind you that the Prime Minister will write in the next few days to his British counterpart Boris Johnson to remind you that each country must shoulder its responsibilities, and that France alone cannot be held responsible for the migration issue in the English Channel. We are ready to continue operational cooperation with the United Kingdom as long as it is part of a framework of trust and good faith. [[Exclaims on FI banks]] In particular, I want to say here that we will never accept the practice of refoulement at sea. The law of the sea is clear: the first duty of any sailor is to rescue. When one sees the poor quality of the boats on which dozens of men, women and children gather, can one believe for a moment that it would be safe to force them to turn around? [[Exclaims on FI banks]] Finally, the Government undertakes to pursue a humane and reasoned policy on asylum and integration: we have strengthened the capacity of the asylum-seekers' accommodation park, creating nearly 4,700 places in 2021, bringing our capacity to about 103,000 places. This year we also launched the Vulnerabilities Plan, which is designed to meet the needs of asylum seekers and refugees suffering from trauma, violence, or vulnerable applicants because of their sexual orientation or gender identity. We have also increased the capacity of the French Office for the Protection of Refugees and Stateless Persons (OFPRA) to respond more quickly to asylum applications. We do not forget integration. I would simply remind you that we have doubled the number of hours of language and civic training for foreigners who obtain a residence permit. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Mr Pancher, be assured of our willingness not to allow the Channel to become a maritime cemetery, as well as of our willingness to ensure the exercise of the right of asylum on our soil in dignified conditions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u6	Blanking last week was better...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u7	This is a misogynical reflection!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u8	Mr Loïc Prud'homme has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u9	A few days ago, in the European Parliament, a zero-fat common agricultural policy was adopted. It unfolds the red carpet to industrial agriculture, and no voice from your delegation LaREM-FNSEA – the National Federation of Farmers' Unions –, led by Jérémy Decerle, has failed to get it adopted, to the detriment of our farmers, consumers and the environment. The national declination of this agricultural policy, the national strategic plan, is not left behind: the continuity of aid per hectare rather than the asset; continuity of injustice, since 80% of aid benefits 20% of farmers; no payments for environmental services; smoke on agroecological measures, with the false high environmental value label (HVE). Your national strategic plan is so far away from the objectives of protecting the climate and the environment that the Environmental Authority and the High Council for Climate have taken positions in the vitriol on its content, not to mention scratching your methods to hide what is bothering you under the carpet. The National Commission for Public Debate does not spare you either, noting that the views of the citizens are not taken into account in the path you draw for the future of our farmers. But, of all this, there will be no discussion here in Parliament, as I have been calling for for two years. We'll be content with a poor questionnaire on your ministry's website so that nothing changes. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Mr Minister of Farm France – should I rather say about the farm-factory France? –, are you finally going to take stock of the stakes: to produce healthy raw materials, here in France, to pay farmers and feed the country?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u10	Because that's not the case today? It's not very nice for our farmers!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u11	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] We need a new social pact between the French and their farmers. Together with Jean-Luc Mélenchon, we propose the creation of a ministry of food production. Mr Minister, what are you proposing to the French and the agricultural world, apart from the disappearance of half of the farmers in the next ten years, apart from the free trade treaties, apart from the silence imposed on Parliament?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u12	The Secretary of State to the Prime Minister, spokesman for the Government, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u13	First of all, I ask you to excuse the absence of my colleague Julien Denormandie, who is on the side of the wine growers, since they have had a black year because of the episodes of frost. This presence at their bedside is expected. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Since you are referring to the common agricultural policy, I would like to hear you welcome the fact that we have obtained for our farmers a CAP with a constant budget, which we owe to the mobilisation of the President of the Republic, the Government and the majority. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group. – Protests on the benches of the FI group]] I would have liked to hear you say something clear, and that our citizens see every day: if there is an economic sector that is engaged in the ecological transition, it is indeed the agriculture of our country. You have come to deny all the efforts, all the commitments of our farmers, throughout the national territory, in favour of this transition; You have come to deny results that are perceptible. [[Ms. Danielle Brulebois applauds]] [[Exclaims on FI banks]] The reality is that our country's organic surface has doubled since 2017. We now have the first organic surface in Europe! The reality is that we have increased the HVE label by 20% since the beginning of the quinquennium.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u14	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u15	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] The reality is that we have reduced the use of pesticides and plant health products by 93% since the beginning of the quinquennium. That's the reality! [[Protests on the benches of the FI group]] You are addressing the question of the CAP. But if we followed your logic, if we followed your path, we would lead – and this has been examined in particular by the European Commission – to a 13% drop in production in France and an increase in imports of 20%. Two thirds of our greenhouse gas emission reductions would be offset by imports. That is the reality of what you are proposing, and that is not what we want for our farmers. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and IUD-I groups as well as on several benches of the Dem group]] Yes, in the CAP's national declination, we are increasing budgets for organic products by 30% in our country. That is the reality of the action of the Government and the farmers, and the results are at hand.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u16	Mrs Marguerite Deprez-Audebert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u17	Minister of the Interior, on 24 November, twenty-seven migrants drowned trying to cross the Channel from Pas-de-Calais. This terrible tragedy calls for action. As President Macron pointed out, "France will not let the English Channel become a cemetery." The lives of migrants, the dignity of the Republic and of the European Union are at stake. A European solution must be found, with the aim of ensuring a dignified reception for asylum seekers, speeding up the processing of applications and better protecting our borders. The Calais meeting marks a first step. Of course, France must not forsake its borders, like all its European partners. However, this solution must involve our British neighbours. However, migration issues are not part of the post-Brexit agreements with London. If the British wish to regain control of their border, they must also bear the consequences. We must therefore ask ourselves about the recent attitude of their government, which rejects its responsibility and refuses any cooperation. On a more local scale, there is a need for stronger support for the Pas-de-Calais, now the external border of the European Union, and for fishermen whose vessels are sometimes stormed by desperate migrants. What measures do you intend to take into account this new status and support this department and its inhabitants, whether they are on the coast or at sea? How can we speed up negotiations on the European Pact on Migration and Asylum while taking into account the need to find solutions in parallel with Britain? Does the idea of a new post-Dublin system including the United Kingdom seem feasible to you?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u18	The next speaker is the Minister for the Interior.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u19	Everyone was obviously gripped by emotion when we saw the twenty-seven deaths in the English Channel: pregnant women, three children... Those people who fled poverty were sometimes present only for a few hours or days in the national territory. One of the two survivors, this Iraqi citizen who was quoted by Mr. Pancher, was in France for just six days; Fifteen days earlier, he had crossed the Belarusian border. Migration is an old phenomenon, but there are new flows; What is happening in Syria, Afghanistan, Belarus, has repercussions on the coasts of California, and beyond all over the world. The subject is therefore complex and we must resolve it by fighting against smugglers, but also, as you said, by working with our British friends. What the Government is demanding is equality of work and equality in discussions with our British friends. The President of the Republic regretted, and I am doing so after him, the very profound difference between our private discussions with the British government and our public discussions in the House of Commons or in the press. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] The Prime Minister will therefore, following the defence council convened by the President of the Republic, propose to the British Prime Minister a new phase of construction. You just recalled that in the Brexit negotiation agreement, the migration issue had not been foreseen; It is therefore up to us to carry out this work now. It deserves to be precise, and it must provide for equal treatment, for Britain must take its part: 150,000 applications for asylum in France, 30 000 in Great Britain. Look for the mistake.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u20	Mr Julien Aubert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u21	My question is for the Prime Minister. A violent crisis is going through the West Indies, especially Guadeloupe, after you decided to suspend 1,400 caregivers who refused to comply with the vaccination obligation. I want to pay tribute here to the policemen and journalists who were targeted in this revolt that has become a rebellion. We know that Guadeloupe faces structural problems both in terms of drinking water supply and in terms of purchasing power or unemployment, not to mention the Chlordecone scandal which has affected 90% of the adult population. [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group. – Protests on the benches of the LaREM group]] [[Same movements]] We want to express our misunderstanding of how this crisis has been managed. First of all, the Minister for Overseas Affairs took three weeks to visit. Perhaps he was too busy signing a platform to support the President of the Republic for his re-election. But Guadeloupe is France! If these events had taken place in the Bouches-du-Rhône or in Corrèze, we would not have waited three weeks Then you decided to postpone the vaccination obligation for caregivers. Do we have to understand that when we shoot the police, the law becomes obsolete? Moreover, the timing is wrong, because we have to deal with a fifth wave and a new variant. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Finally, you have decided to open a curious institutional debate by talking about autonomy at the worst moment, while the independence of New Caledonia is being played out in a few weeks' time. Can you explain how consistent your policy is?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u22	The next speaker is the Minister for the Interior.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u23	Mr. Aubert, thank you for thanking the police and gendarmes, who are present, numerous and courageous. At the request of the Minister for Overseas Affairs and the Prime Minister, the Republic has sent five units of mobile force (UFM), i.e. here five gendarmerie squadrons, in Martinique and as much in Guadeloupe. The Republican order has largely been restored, as we have moved from about 40 dams to just a few.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u24	The problem is not just the dams, it's the mess!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u25	At this very moment, the police and the gendarmerie are completing this work. [[Protests on the benches of the LR group]] [[Protests on the benches of the LR group]] [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Mr Aubert, I am surprised that you blame us for a lack of firmness when the Minister of Solidarity and Health had the courage to suspend more than 1,400 caregivers who did not have to be vaccinated, when some called for a differentiated solution in overseas and metropolitan areas. Some candidates in the presidential election could present their bizarre or hideous proposals in the Lépine competition. They thus consider that the Guadeloupees would not be able – in any case less so than the Polynesians – to manage certain skills, i.e. to gain autonomy. We must not confuse autonomy with independence, even though I know, Mr.Aubert, that these are two concepts that are difficult to understand. The situation in the West Indies in this regard is different from that in New Caledonia. [[Protests on the benches of the LR group. – Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] The Republican Group is constantly promoting decentralization, but obviously it wants decentralization everywhere, except overseas!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u26	Mr Julien Aubert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u27	The Minister of the Interior is pleased to have re-established the order while the tourists are being racked up by taking twenty euros to circulate in Guadeloupe. I note, minister, that you are not well informed enough. We make the difference between autonomy and independence, but we do not think we are negotiating with whom we put a revolver on our head. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] You are applying exactly the same strategy as for yellow vests: in Parliament, you are not listening to anyone; Then you respond through repression; then you drop out of the budget; you end up with a great institutional bric-à-brac! More smoke! More "at the same time"!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u28	We're not at the LR Congress!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u29	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u30	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] [[Rires on the benches of the LR group]] [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Protests on the benches of the LR group]] Minister Sébastien Lecornu did not want to discuss with "representatives" of the inter-union because they had refused to condemn the violence against the police; the interview lasted ten minutes, which shows the firmness of the state. In the coming weeks, I recommend that you use the same energy to attack Mr. Zemmour and Mrs. Le Pen as you use to attack the Government. I propose you, Mr. Aubert, when Mr. Zemmour's absolutely abhorrent video is broadcast, not to run the plateaus to congratulate you on the work you will have to do with him, but to stay in the Republican arch. That's how we can bring together the Gaullist family!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u31	It is we who are faithful to this tradition!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u32	The floor is for Mrs Cécile Delpirou, and she alone!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u33	My question is to the Minister of Solidarity and Health. Minister, as France is facing an acceleration of the covid-19 epidemic, the world is worried about the new variant coming from southern Africa, called "omicron". This variant, which seems to be more contagious, is already circulating in Europe and France, despite the decision taken to close the borders to travellers from this region. It poses an additional risk to the evolution of this epidemic, which has been accelerating in recent weeks. Last week, the Government announced new measures to counter the progression of covid, including the extension of the vaccine booster dose to all adults. The Scientific Council stressed that these measures, which I welcome on behalf of the majority, were "extremely useful" in curbing the epidemic and the spread of the new variant. Will it be necessary, however, to go further? The Institut Pasteur's projections predict that the peak of the fifth wave will be in mid-January. Thanks to the strong measures that have been taken, thanks to everyone's efforts and the constant vigilance that has been maintained in recent months, health indicators are better in France than in our European neighbours. Nevertheless, the French are worried about the end-of-year celebrations; Will they be able to find themselves in normal conditions? As we know, barrier actions, isolation measures and vaccines are our main weapons against covid, but too many French people are still recalcitrant to vaccination or relax their vigilance. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Minister, how does the Government intend to adapt its health strategy to the arrival of the new variant and the current evolution of the epidemic? In addition, how does it intend to help countries that are already widely exposed to the "omicron" variant and have limited access to vaccines?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u34	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u35	And condescendency!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u36	Mrs Delpirou, I thank you for your question about the epidemic situation and how to combat this fifth wave that is reaching our country, as it affects the European continent as a whole and even across the Atlantic. I will be quite frank with you: on the front line of the epidemic, the situation is getting worse. Public Health France will publish today, as every day, the number of contaminations of the previous day: we deplore 47,000 contaminations over the last 24 hours, which continues to mark an increase in the spread of the virus on the national territory. It is distributed throughout the national territory; the number of contaminations per day exceeds 30,000 and could be, if this dynamic is followed by + 60% per week, higher than the peak of the third wave by the end of the week. That is the epidemic situation. However, as you said, what has changed is that vaccination means that for a given number of infections, there are far fewer serious cases, hospitalizations, especially in resuscitation, and far fewer deaths. This is what is currently protecting our country because, with the number of contaminations that we regret today, our hospitals would already be in a situation of overflow, or almost, if we did not have this collective protection. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] The health pass thus shows its usefulness because, without it, we would probably have had to close some establishments receiving from the public or at least impose management measures on them. I thank the majority for having with courage and determination voted for this tool developed to protect the French. I think no one in this House regrets that the majority has committed themselves in this way. Although it is less important than it would have been without vaccination, the number of serious cases continues to rise: 1,700 covid patients are in our resuscitation and critical care services. That is why we must amplify the reminder campaign. The latest data from the Directorate of Research, Studies, Evaluation and Statistics (DREES) show that the recall of vaccination reinforces a much stronger protection than after the first two doses because it greatly reduces the number of serious cases. Finally, you know that a first case of contamination of the omicron variant has been identified in La Réunion. Other cases could be identified within the next few hours. I will, of course, keep the French informed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u37	Mr Fabien Roussel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u38	My question was to the Prime Minister, to whom I wish a good recovery. Senator Fabien Gay and I come back from Guyana and Guadeloupe, where we heard an anger that your government does not want to recognize. Again yesterday, instead of listening to the representatives, your minister made the choice to pose an ultimatum, inciting a unanimous anger, so that all the elected representatives of Guadeloupe refused to go to meet him! It is not for anyone to condone looting or violence, but to listen to the inhabitants, to respect them. In 1967, in the face of a great strike by the Gaddelupian workers for the rise of wages, the boss of the employers replied: "When the Negroes are hungry, they will return to work. This sentence still resonates in the heads, in those of the caregivers and firefighters who are suspended, without pay, without mutuals! Listen to this "sacred wound" that Aimé Césaire spoke of. What they want is not less state, but a better state. What they want is equality guaranteed by the Republic. Why is life there even more expensive than here? Why is unemployment there affecting young people more than here? Why are you so late in the fight against chlordecone poisoning? Why are they obliged, in Guadeloupe, to go fill bottles or jerricans in order to have access to water? And in Guyana, why does the Republic still accept industrial projects that will pour tons of cyanide into our rivers, into our Amazon forest! [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] We ask the Prime Minister to go quickly to Guadeloupe and Martinique to understand why our compatriots doubt so much the Government's words, but also to put in place the contingency plan long awaited by the population and the elected ones.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u39	The next speaker is the Minister for the Interior.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u40	And rebellion!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u41	It would be a lie to say that this is the first time that Guadeloupe has experienced such difficulties. Over the last thirty years, on several occasions, the Republic has seen the overseas countries and, in particular, Guadeloupe develop a form of fever. However, there is a great difference between the current situation in Guadeloupe and the situation we have experienced before: the vast majority of the Guadeloupe people do not support these protest movements, these movements of breakers who attack police officers and gendarmes. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] [[Same movements]] You're a Republican, you say no one supports the violence. But the Minister of Overseas Affairs asked in advance of the meeting with the Inter-union for the condemnation of the violence that resulted in sixty injured police officers and gendarmes. We rode on a policeman, who might lose the use of his two legs. At the beginning of a meeting, elected officials or trade union leaders must condemn such violence. To refuse to condemn such violence is to refuse to discuss with the republican state. No debate is possible with people who refuse to condemn those who shoot live at policemen and gendarmes, which Republicans like you know very well. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Who put an end to the difficulty of water supply in Guadeloupe? That's the majority! Who paid 1.5 billion euros during the covid in Guadeloupe? That's the majority! Who is working to address the problem of chlordecone that has been neglected by many previous governments? That's the majority! [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] So help us rebuild Guadeloupe instead of yelling with those who hit the police and the gendarmes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u42	Mr Fabien Roussel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u43	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] Minister, you haven't seen the tens of thousands of people who demonstrated last weekend! During the entire legislature, the Government was not able to put in place a single plan for overseas countries! There has been no law on overseas programming.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u44	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u45	It is true that overseas countries face particular difficulties in terms of living costs, supply problems, the future of children and their working lives. Everyone recognizes him. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Mr Roussel, we extend a fraternal hand to you, as to all Republicans, to work together. This applies to each of the members of this assembly. But we have only one condition: that the police, the gendarmes, the carers be respected as agents of the state; journalists are also respected. This precondition is essential for the action of any government and for the guarantee of all freedoms.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u46	You don't understand anything about overseas!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u47	Mr Alain David has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u48	Mr. Minister of the Interior, at least twenty-seven people died in the shipwreck of the crew that was to take them to England. The English Channel is already a cemetery. The fate of these men, women and children requires a response from the Government. Even beyond these maritime tragedies, their conditions of survival in makeshift camps, where they are exposed to cold, hunger and violence of all kinds, are unworthy. There is an urgent need to dismantle the wild camps that are forming in the vicinity of Calais and to deal with the files of those asylum seekers who can represent a wealth for French society. It is also essential to fight against smugglers who trade in human distress and expose these families to deadly dangers. Yet this repressive action against human traffickers is insufficient, for despair cannot be stopped by imprisoning some mafias without faith or law. To effectively divert migrants from these channels, it is necessary to reopen legal channels that would allow them to apply for asylum under humane and acceptable conditions instead of letting them take incredible risks. In order to do so, the President of the Republic had committed himself to renegotiating the Touquet agreements, which made the British borders in France outright. There is clearly a lack of will on the part of the United Kingdom towards these migrants who wish to join England at all costs. What emergency measures does the Government intend to take in order to put an end to these unbearable tragedies which take place, in particular at the maritime border between France and the United Kingdom?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u49	The next speaker is the Minister for the Interior.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u50	We share emotion, distress and sometimes even anger at these human tragedies that take place at sea, as on 24 November, but also on earth: you are right to recall it. Our work is consistent with that of the previous government. I would like to remind you that Bernard Cazeneuve, the courageous minister, was the one who made it possible, in large part, to solve this problem.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u51	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u52	We have continued this action, since today there are fifteen times fewer migrants in Calais, Dunkirk and Grande-Synthe than five years ago. With regard to the agreements of the Touquet, which are sometimes denounced, it took the courage of Nicolas Sarkozy and a communist mayor, following the problems connected with the Sangatte centre, to negotiate them. But they have nothing to do with the situation we are in and talking to them loud and clear will not solve the problem. The Touquet agreements are the result of negotiations in the areas of legal immigration and tourism and were concluded at a time when migrants were travelling through the tunnel and the port to the United Kingdom. From now on, we find almost no migrants in these two places;...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u53	It's not because of you!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u54	...that's why they're riding small boats. So you can renegotiate these agreements as long as you want, it will not change the case: the migrant who is on the coast, in Bray-Dunes, in Dunkirk or in Calais does not know about the international agreement allowing tourists to take the Eurostar or the tunnel before crossing the Channel! [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] As the President of the Republic has said, we need to negotiate an agreement between the European Union and the United Kingdom. We regret, I would like to repeat, that no one thought about it during the Brexit negotiations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u55	Mr Christophe Di Pompeo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u56	Mr Secretary of State to the Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs, last week the President of the Republic visited Rome to sign the Treaty on bilateral cooperation between France and Italy, called the Treaty of Quirinal. Yesterday, the President of our Assembly signed with the President of the Chamber of Deputies of the Italian Republic, Mr Roberto Fico, a cooperation agreement between our two parliaments, another sign of the vitality of our exchanges. Italy and France have long been at the initiative of the greatest European achievements, as founding members of the European Union, the Common Market, the euro and the Schengen Agreement. In the face of the crisis, we have demonstrated the strength of our relations through the establishment, in consultation with the other Member States, of the European Recovery Plan. On Friday's assignment to Rome, the President of the Republic stressed that the absence of a treaty between our two countries was an anomaly, because we share a common history, a community of destiny and cultural proximity. We share the same vision of a democratic, protective and sovereign Europe. France and Italy still have a lot to do together. Through this long-awaited historic treaty, we are concretizing our affinities around many projects and areas. I am thinking, among other things, of the stability of the Mediterranean area, of the Alpine arc, and of the creation of joint programmes in the fields of defence and security, technological innovation, research, culture and higher education. We must strengthen the European project and Franco-Italian relations, thanks to the signing of the Treaty of Quirinal, must be one of the foundations of this work. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Can you explain to us the purpose and the areas covered by this new treaty?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u57	The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Tourism, the French from abroad and the French-speaking world.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u58	Thank you very much for your question, you who are also president of the France-Italy friendship group of the National Assembly: I would like to welcome this active parliamentary democracy, which feeds bilateral cooperation. The Treaty of Quirinal is the culmination of an initiative initiated in 2017, at the Lyon summit, which continued in 2019, with the summit of Chambord. Its object is simple: finally, to create a kind of Franco-Italian reflex to work to strengthen European integration and to act at all levels bilaterally. This Franco-Italian reflex can be found in eleven very dense chapters. As regards youth, for example, the Treaty creates a Franco-Italian civic service and a Franco-Italian trades campus, and provides for the strengthening of the learning of our respective languages. In this field, as you know, the learning of French in Italy is strengthened year by year thanks to the classes ESABAC – binational French-Italian sections. On the economic front, too, the Treaty provides for enhanced cooperation in all sectors related to strategic autonomy: I am thinking of electric batteries, the pharmaceutical industry or semiconductors. And let us not forget security and justice, since a Franco-Italian operational unit will now be mobilised to manage our respective major events and the Franco-Italian Defence and Security Council will be relaunched. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] As you will have understood, all these areas of cooperation between our two sister nations – our two tricolor nations – make us determined to combine furia francese with Italian determination, in order to launch a true European renaissance.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u59	Mr Pierre-Henri Dumont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u60	Last Wednesday, 27 people lost their lives in the English Channel. Calaisis, France and Europe are bereaved. The tragedy that we, elected locals and citizens of my constituency, feared occurred, despite the superhuman efforts of the forces of law and order, rescuers at sea, firefighters, who, every day, pushed back the fateful deadline. We all have a thought for the missing and their loved ones. [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] Three weeks ago, right here, I was making an alarm call. Your deputy minister, Marlène Schiappa, then preferred to deny the reality, replying that "no, the state does not lose control of the situation in Calais, on the contrary". Like this sentence, your Government's response to the plight of migrants and the inhabitants of Calais is mediocre: a communication operation under the cover of a European summit that only results in the deployment of a Frontex plane – as I said for three years – a letter sent to your British counterpart, a few additional human resources, and that's all. That night again, death traffickers have organized crossings, and tomorrow we will be mourning new drownings. Your lack of political courage makes Calaisis a playground for extremes and the English Channel a marine cemetery. The reality is simple: once in Calais, it's too late! After travelling 5,000 kilometres, neither the walls nor the barbed wires nor the patrols will prevent the migrants from reaching the UK and the smugglers will continue their macabre business. Therefore, in order to avoid new human tragedies, you must make the coast of the English Channel, the Calaisis in particular, a "zero migrant" territory. [[Protests on the benches of the GDR group]] This must be done by transferring, if necessary under duress, foreigners in an irregular situation to reception and examination centres, where hundreds of places are available, so that they can find rest and reflect on their future. And this must be done by starting an arm with Boris Johnson, in order to open a secure way for migrants in the United Kingdom. With Brexit, the British wanted to regain control: so let them regain their borders! It is not for France and the Calaisians to suffer the consequences of a British economy based on illegal work in a community country. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] How many dramas in the English Channel will you still need to take concrete action?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u61	The next speaker is the Minister for the Interior.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u62	I do not know exactly what you are referring to by the elected representatives of Calais, because the mayor of Calais has publicly expressed her great satisfaction with the meeting on Sunday and everyone knows that she is fighting against this Government. It seems to me that she has taken courageous positions, she who has been managing the situation in Calais every day for a long time. She was also able to speak for the first time at an international summit devoted to this subject, in this case to all the European Interior Ministers concerned and to the European Commission. She had received words of support from her people, put forward proposals and commended the work done by the Government to try to solve that problem, which had been over twenty years old. [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] On the other hand, I have not heard so much of your proposals to you, honourable Member. What you're proposing is the criminalization of migrants. I heard that they had to be placed in reception centres to reflect on their future: since 1 January, 14400 people have been resettled. Now, you know better than anyone, these people don't want to stay in France or think about their future in our country: they want to go to the UK! Why? Because they are 60% eligible for asylum in this country, whereas they are only 3% applying in our territory. You can take them away to Lons-le-Saunier or to Tourcoing, where ninety-two migrants were again received from Calais last week, they will still want to go to the United Kingdom and, for that, return to Calaisis. Indeed, geography makes that, at least since Julius Caesar, Boulogne-sur-Mer and Calais are the best places to do it. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] [[Same movements]] [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Let us stand in solidarity, Mr President, let us be French together against the United Kingdom! Don't give them bisbilles. Let's not make any more baffled proposals than the others. It has been twenty years since all governments managed this difficulty – twenty years! There were brave people: Nicolas Sarkozy in Sangatte, Bernard Cazeneuve in the jungle of Calais and, I believe, the President of the Republic today. Show yourself worthy of the responsibility of a government party and let's not say anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u63	You have to listen to Xavier Bertrand!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u64	Mrs Aina Kuric has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u65	My question is to the Minister of National Education, Youth and Sport, and I would like to associate my colleague Alexandra Louis with it. One in ten French citizens was reported to have been sexually abused by a family member in his childhood. This chilling figure could even be underestimated, as the release of the victims' words is difficult in cases of incest. In addition to the violence of aggression, there is the suffering of having been the victim of a father, mother, uncle or brother; the victim of a member of the family unit, yet supposed to love us and protect us. The taboo is universal, the omerta almost natural. No region, no department, no city, no social category is spared. Because time is a determining variable in the reconstruction of victims, detection must be as early as possible. The school therefore also has a role to play in preventing and detecting these individual tragedies, so that the law of silence can finally be broken. It is essential to build a true common culture of identification, combining school, out-of-school and out-of-school, as we are currently discussing with regard to school harassment. At the request of the President of the Republic, an inter-ministerial working group on domestic violence and incest was established last February. Its conclusions were made this summer and served as the basis for the Government's action plan launched last year to strengthen the prevention policy already carried out. This includes training of staff in the collection of victims' words, as well as raising awareness among children and families. [[Applause on the benches of the Action ens group]] Can you give us more details on the timing of this plan, because at the time we are talking, children are victims of domestic violence? It is our collective responsibility to hear and help them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u66	The next speaker is the Minister for National Education, Youth and Sport.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u67	You are right, this subject is one of the most dramatic, one of the most traumatic, and probably one of the most frequently ignored, for the reasons you have recalled. Thus, on the basis of the work carried out by Adrien Taquet to reach concrete proposals and by Marlène Schiappa during the Grenelle des violences conjugales, we obviously sought to move forward. The Grenelle proposals concern education, since, as you said, prevention and training are both necessary. Prevention requires cooperation among all actors and, in this regard, we have begun an experiment in the Somme department, involving both the departmental council, the public prosecutor's office and national education, with a view to promoting the exchange of information and preventing violence. This experiment gives its first results, which will undoubtedly encourage us to generalize it. Seventeen actions have also been recommended by the Grenelle, which we are of course called upon to carry out. Most of them are training activities: they have started and need to be systematized, not only with teachers, but also with national education staff and local authorities. I am thinking in particular of nurses and school doctors, who are in contact with students and often already able to identify weak signals, but who will thus have new tools. In addition to training, there is also information work for students. As you know, a vademecum on sex education will be published shortly: it will integrate domestic sexual violence to raise awareness among students and avoid an omerta in this area. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] We therefore have a comprehensive and inter-ministerial strategy, which will be reflected throughout the year in the implementation of the 17 actions of national education, the first of which began.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u68	Mr Patrick Hetzel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u69	My question is for the Minister of National Education and I would like to associate my colleague Maxime Minot with it. By the start of the school year, you had announced that 600,000 salivary tests would be carried out every week in nursery and primary schools. I then asked you about your strategy, which you described as ambitious, when I considered it largely insufficient. Unfortunately, three months later, the facts make us right. You have never managed to exceed 142,000 tests per week, which is very insufficient for a school population of several million students. Parents, students and teachers have seen a certain cacophony in your ads and all this is a source of mistrust. Today, it must be said, your policy of covid testing at school is a real fiasco. The vagueness of your speech and especially of your actions, in managing this crisis, is incomprehensible: test material that does not arrive, class closing announcements made at the last moment, the rules regarding wearing the mask at school that change every day. Students, parents and teachers can't do it anymore! [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] So my question is very simple: why didn't you opt for a systematic weekly screening of all primary school students like The Republicans have been asking you for 18 months?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u70	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u71	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] This measure, advocated by the Scientific Council, would help to curb the epidemic dynamics and would have the merit of better protecting the entire French population.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u72	The next speaker is the Minister for National Education, Youth and Sport.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u73	[[Vehement protests on the benches of the LR group]] If you did a florileg of your interventions on the epidemic, it wouldn't really lead to a lesson in civics...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u74	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u75	...and we will not fail to do so, when the time comes. A Huron who would listen to you would find it difficult to understand that our country is internationally hailed as the one that kept its schools open the most – I was in Brussels yesterday again, and I can tell you that French management is not considered bad, far from it. You want to make the adaptation look complicated, just as you were already doing in July, during your previous interventions...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u76	That's the point!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u77	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Long protests on the benches of the LR group]] You were alarming yourself about vaccination, saying we weren't ready... but you were actually happy about it, because that's how you design your work as opponents. The reality is that more than 90% of teachers are now vaccinated, as well as more than three quarters of students over the age of 12: we are one of the best countries in Europe. This explains why there is no longer any problem in secondary education. As far as primary education is concerned, the experiment initiated since the beginning of October is partly conclusive and has led us to adopt the solution that we have adopted, which, according to my information, satisfies both the parents of pupils and the teachers.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u78	Go see the kids, go see the students: you'll see if there's no more problem!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u79	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] The aim is to close as many schools as possible: let us try, please, to aim for the general interest rather than to lose ourselves in vain on an issue whose management is also welcomed!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u80	Mr Patrick Hetzel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u81	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Minister, your level of self-satisfaction is incredible! Go to the field, look what's going on! And, instead of trying to disprove your opponents, who ask legitimate questions, answer the questions we ask you. It is our students, their families and their teachers who are concerned, the entire French population: you do not answer them, which is scandalous!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u82	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u83	[[Protests on the benches of the LR group]] [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] I answer you without difficulty, but if you can read, you have all the answers. First, there is much to test all the children of France today; they are about 180,000 to be tested every week, and we are able to test more than 3 million. This is the most effective solution to keeping schools open. If you want more details, everything is on the ministry's website but, in reality, these are not answers you are looking for, but polemics!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u84	Mr Thierry Benoit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u85	Although the Minister of Agriculture is apologised, I wish to convey to the Government the concern of many professional agricultural managers about the future of livestock production in France. In all regions, farmers, especially farmers, are calling on us. In Brittany, André Sergent, the president of the Regional Chamber of Agriculture sent an open letter to the minister: he is concerned that in the four departments of administrative Brittany alone, 62000 cattle were lost in one year, or just under 3% of the population. This decline applies equally to other sectors, such as the pig and poultry sectors, and there is growing concern. [[Applause the benches of the IDU-I group]] To be a farmer in our country is to be mobilized three hundred and sixty-five days a year, twenty-four hours a day. It is a very hard job, very busy and, above all, very poorly paid. [[Same movements]] The number of farms increased from 1.5 million in the 1970s to 450,000 in 2020. We must allow more young farmers to settle, but to do so, they must earn an acceptable income from their jobs. It is the farmers who feed us; They participate in the preservation of the environment and contribute to the production of energy in our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u86	The Secretary of State to the Prime Minister, spokesman for the Government, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u87	Thank you for the tribute you paid to our farmers, to whom we owe our agricultural sovereignty and thanks to the daily commitment that the French can feed themselves. You are doing so in a context where their concerns about the sustainability of their industry and their future are acute. We share your diagnosis, particularly for Brittany, which focuses on many of the problems that the Government has been trying to solve for several months, whether it is the renewal of generations, the remuneration or the financing of the changes made necessary by consumers' expectations of animal welfare or the environment. It is all the more difficult because the context is complicated. The costs of our farms are blazing and there is a scissor effect between rising input prices and reducing margins. But I want to say again, as Julien Denormandie said on the occasion of his last visit, we will not let down the production lines either in Brittany or in the rest of the country. We have set up local crisis cells and mobilise all the means to support the most fragile farms – debt sequencing and carry-over of MSA contributions, among others. We are also working on structural responses, which have been the subject of various reforms, that of the CAP, but above all that of the law to protect the remuneration of farmers, known as the EGALIM 2 law, largely inspired by the work carried out in particular by Grégory Besson-Moreau and Jean-Baptiste Moreau, through which production costs are taken into account in the purchase price of agricultural products. Farmers must no longer be the ones who are subject to the rules of the game. The mechanisms established by the EGALIM laws are designed to balance the power relations between the actors and to better distribute the increase in costs. Contractualization, non-negotiability of prices of agricultural raw materials or non-discrimination in tariffs will make it possible to change the situation. You can count on us to enforce the EGALIM 2 law;...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u88	It'll change from EGALIM 1!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u89	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] ... rely on us, above all, to always be at the side of our breeders.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u90	Mrs Emilie Cariou has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u91	Whether for or against nuclear energy, it is still an integral part of the French energy mix for the years to come. Choices in this area are crucial, both for public finances and for energy safety and sovereignty. While our nuclear power plants are capable of producing largely carbon-free electricity on a continuous basis, they pose a major challenge: the management of highly radioactive waste. To date, the production of the National Radioactive Material and Waste Management Plan (NCRWMP) for which I, along with Senator Bruno Sido, have the responsibility of drafting the parliamentary evaluation report, is more than two years behind schedule. The Government had not only violated the law by extending its surrender deadlines, but was de facto hampering the work of the Parliament's monitoring mission on the Government's civilian nuclear strategy. The question of waste is, to date, not the only one that remains unanswered. The financial estimates for the entire sector have not been reassessed, whether they are maintenance, safety, decommissioning, or the Geological Storage Industrial Centre (GSC) project. These costs are in addition to those of the construction of new European pressurized reactors (ERP) or small modular reactors, announced without even consulting the national representation. [[Mrs Bénédicte Taurine and Albane Gaillot applaud, as well as Mr Ugo Bernalicis]] Yet, is it not Parliament's role to monitor the Government's action? Is it not a democratic issue that the representatives of the French people can express themselves on energy choices that commit the future of an entire country for decades and generations? The issues are multiple, and the issues of energy sovereignty are crucial. If we are to meet the challenges posed by nuclear power, we need to quantify our funding and human resources needs, and weigh every waste treatment option with maximum transparency. Without that, we are moving straight into a budget wall, with increasingly demanding choices. [[Same movements]] My question is therefore: Is it not time to launch a major public debate on French nuclear power, bringing together independent experts, citizens, economic actors, associations and politicians, to discuss the choices and financial models that should be retained, in order to plan the energy and ecological transition as best possible?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u92	The Minister for Environmental Transition, representing the Prime Minister, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u93	I agree with you that issues as important as the future of our energy policy need to be discussed publicly, outside Parliament but also in your Chamber, and that is why I am pleased that, thanks to the collective work of Members, a new energy transition law has to be adopted in 2023 and then declined into multi-annual energy programming. This is already a major step forward in democracy. But in order to have a calm debate, we must lay it down on a sound basis. That's why the government – I insisted on it very much when I was a Member of Parliament – asked the Electricity Transmission Network (TEN) for a report that would allow different scenarios to be considered. We thus have on the table six scenarios...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u94	You sit on it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u95	... which will enable us to achieve carbon neutrality in 2050 and each has its own advantages and disadvantages, including in financial terms – a financial analysis of nuclear issues must soon be released to enrich the debate. These scenarios need to be discussed. They will be part of the preparation of the future law but also in the framework of the French strategy for energy and climate, which has been the subject of a consultation open to all citizens since 2 November. With regard to the issue of waste, the NGMPDR was the subject of a public notice from the Environmental Authority last week. A new plant construction programme will necessarily have an impact on long-term high-level waste, and this, like everything else, will have to be part of the debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u96	Mr Dominique Da Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u97	Since 2017, work has been the red thread of our action and its compass, so that work always pays more than inactivity and makes it possible to live in dignity. To this end, a new stage in the reform of unemployment insurance is beginning tomorrow. From 1 December, it will take at least six months in the last two years to be able to receive compensation, compared to four months today.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u98	It's a shame!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u99	For monthly wages above EUR 4500 gross, for full-time members of the public, the unemployment benefit will become degressive after the seventh month of compensation, instead of the ninth month at present.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u100	We're in Luxembourg!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u101	This reform is now possible, because the action we have been taking since 2017 is bearing fruit. Our strategy has not only enabled us to resist the crisis but also to rebound better: our dynamic growth, above 6%, puts France at the top of the big European economies. We are achieving spectacular results, with 1 million jobs created since 2017.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u102	He's rewriting the story!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u103	A specific effort has been made for young people: thanks to the "one young person, one solution" plan, 3 million young people have found training, and the unemployment rate has been at the lowest in 15 years, including among those under 25 years of age. Finally, the increase in training for job-seekers, which has increased by 15% over two years, is largely due to the increase in the use of the Personal Training Account (PCA), following the opening of the direct purchasing route at the end of 2019, which makes it possible to mobilise the CPF directly and more easily.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u104	Hello? Hello? What's the question?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u105	So, Madam Minister, in the context of recruitment difficulties that we are experiencing everywhere, and beyond this indispensable reform, can you tell us whether the successful training courses converge well with the needs expressed on the labour market?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u106	The Minister for Labour, Employment and Integration has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u107	[[Smile on GDR benches]] What can she add: he said everything!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u108	Indeed, the figures speak for themselves: in October, the number of unemployed jobseekers fell by 113,000 and, in total, by more than 500,000 out of the last six. This is the result of the policy of protecting businesses and jobs during the health crisis, France's investment recovery and structural reforms aimed at encouraging activity and work. The reform of unemployment insurance aims in particular to encourage all those who can do so to work more. It will enter fully into force from tomorrow. From now on, it will take six months of the last 24 months to open up unemployment insurance rights, and the benefits for job seekers who earned more than 4500 euros gross per month will be degressive from the seventh month onwards. With this reform, our goal is simple: to encourage work and encourage companies to offer better quality contracts. This goes hand in hand with an unprecedented investment in training and support for jobseekers. In particular, we mobilise almost EUR 15 billion over five years for the training of job seekers or young people with little or no qualifications. As part of the plan announced at the end of September with the Prime Minister, we decided to increase this investment, with a focus on in-company training, to meet their recruitment needs as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u109	It's not new!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u110	The results are here. Nearly six out of ten trained jobseekers returned to work within six months. You will understand, we are determined to do everything to encourage the work...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u111	Luckily!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u112	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] ... and meet the recruitment needs of companies.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u113	Mr. Philippe Benassaya has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u114	My question is for the Minister of the Interior, but I can't see him anymore. Once again this weekend, all over France, the police forces were attacked, once again undermining the authority of the state. The terrible images that come to us from Paris, Nice or the West Indies bear witness to a widespread phenomenon: in all our territories, the republican order is flouted, the state defied. In my department of Yvelines, which, you will agree, does not look like one of the most dangerous, the situation is similar. Unfortunately, the police officers murdered in Magnanville and Rambouillet are remembered. It's just stone throws, mortars and molotov cocktails all over my department. It is the daily lot of law enforcement officers who risk their lives every day to ensure the tranquillity of our fellow citizens. They deserve our admiration, as do the rescue forces. But the best tribute we can pay to them is to finally restore the authority of the State by an exemplary firmness. I do not deny the efforts made, particularly in my constituency with the construction of an ultra-modern police station in Élancourt. But all these necessary new means will not suffice if the Government does not at the same time strengthen its criminal response. The house continues to burn and offenders seem to play with the sense of impunity that the country feels. In addition, the police forces were severely hit by the accusations of police violence relayed by the President of the Republic. In this sensitive political period, our fellow citizens have the impression that the authority of the state is collapsing. President Chirac once said: "History teaches us that a civilization, in order to maintain control of its destiny, must give itself the means of its security. »
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u115	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u116	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] So my question is simple: what meaning do you give to the principle of state authority? Do you think we need more and better states? A stronger and firmer state? Or less state, by lowering the guard and promising, for example, autonomy in the West Indies?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u117	The Deputy Minister for Citizenship has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u118	[[Applause on many benches]] Before I answer you, I'll have a thought for the policeman brutally attacked in the 13th arrondissement of Paris, even though he was neither in service nor in uniform. He's recovering; I address a thought to his loved ones and colleagues. Thank you for him. Your question is about the security of the police, including the attacks against them. A few figures show that contempt of public authority depositaries decreased in the first half of 2021, compared to 2020. However, even if there are only one or ten of these outrages left, it is still one or ten too many. Of course, we want to fight them. Since 2017, the Government, the Ministry of the Interior, but also parliamentarians, have not remained inactive. We first took protective measures for the physical integrity of public servants, replacing in particular the personal bulletproof vests, which were fifteen years old when we arrived, for the benefit of the two internal security forces. The Minister of the Interior has also devoted resources in particular to vehicles.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u119	This is not new, it was already the case before 2010! That was even the case when Mr. Cazeneuve was Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u120	Please!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u121	Mr Benassaya, I thank you for thanking us in your speech, highlighting the important resources deployed for the renovation or construction of new police stations throughout the territory. I would also like to point out that the Comprehensive Security Act of 25 May 2021 provides for measures to better punish attacks on persons who are the custodians of public authority. It was voted here; You know, therefore, that it extends the penalties for ambush against persons with public authority and members of their families. It removes automatic sentencing credits for perpetrators of violence...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u122	That's not the point!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u123	[[Continuous exclamations on the benches of the LR group]] Yes, I answer your question, which concerned the action of the Government. Finally, the draft law on criminal responsibility and internal security, which we voted for, provides for the creation of an offence of voluntary violence against the internal security forces...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u124	Thank you, Madam Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u125	... and members of their families, as well as the tightening of penalties and protective measures...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u126	Thank you.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u127	...against the refusal to comply. The Government is mobilized.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u128	The Deputy Minister did not answer the question!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u129	Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u130	Mr. Minister of National Education, Youth and Sport, the fifth wave and the arrival of a new variant raise new concerns. As a result, the health protocol has changed again for schools, without a sufficiently clear organisation or the provision of the necessary salivary tests, which once again complicates the daily lives of families and children. It's hard for us to find ourselves there. It is not enough to want to keep the classes open, Minister, but there must be teachers who want and can teach! In this context, how do you intend to overcome the lack of teachers and substitutes? You will not have escaped that the profession is in crisis: resignations, burn-out, lack of candidates in the competitions, shortness of breath of teachers, even of the younger ones, deteriorating working conditions, overtime constraints, decrease in purchasing power. The attractiveness of this profession has never been so weak, and it is the entire educational community that suffers. [[Applause on the SOC, FI and GDR benches]] In the face of all these problems, your institution's main answer is to call on individual contractors, often through employment centres. A few weeks ago, you promised to talk to the national representative about the employment situation in national education, particularly on individual contractors. However, you have recently told me, not without a certain degree of contempt, that the report of your services on these issues was "in a closet." Will you finally decide to open this closet, to give us, without lying to us, the figures on the situation of teachers and individual contractors in France, and to bring solutions to match our ambitions for education?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u131	The next speaker is the Minister for National Education, Youth and Sport.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u132	If he opens the closet, we don't know what's coming out of it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u133	[[Exclaims on FI banks]] With regard to the management of the health crisis, I will complete my previous response. The change is pretty clear. Again, I would like to point out that a negative result of a covid test will be asked of each family of a primary school child, once a positive case has appeared in the primary school class. Last week, about 8,500 classes were closed; We believe that this figure will decrease, to the satisfaction of the general public, while testing all children and adopting a formula similar to that followed in other countries. There is no point in making this protocol more complicated than it is. Of course, it creates an embarrassment for everyone, because the epidemic hinders and requires adaptation from the beginning; There is no need to create unnecessary controversy about this. You also ask me about the attractiveness of the profession of professor. We led the education Grenelle to strengthen it. This involves the twelve commitments I have made, starting with the improvement of purchasing power, which has become a concrete reality since the beginning of 2021, especially for the youngest teachers. The aim is to ensure that no teacher is paid less than EUR 2000 net per month. We started this path. For young people, this will mean a monthly gain of 167 euros net from the beginning of next year. This is substantial, even if it is necessary to go even further – I am the first to say so. On all the other aspects, I made commitments at the Grenelle. Finally, we must also contribute to the attractiveness of the profession of professor by holding positive speeches about it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u134	Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u135	There was no applause for the minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u136	[[Applause on the SOC, GDR and LT benches as well as on several IDU-I benches]] I'm a little surprised by your answer. Some 1648 teachers have resigned in the past year, 100 more than in 2020 and 250 more than in 2018. For the number of pupils per teacher, for example, France is the penultimate in Europe – it is 18.8 in our country, compared with an average of 13.3 in the European Union. So it seems that your solutions have not convinced. Your numbers are one thing, but the reality on the ground is quite different. Even without being an ace of mathematics, we can see the difference between the two.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u137	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u138	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u139	Madam Member, we will have a costed debate, that is not a problem. France has 850,000 teachers for 12 million students. The question is therefore one of qualitative improvement, which goes through the twelve commitments I have mentioned. [[Protests on the SOC, GDR and LT benches]] [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] I repeat this to everyone: of course there are problems, to which we must provide solutions, but the speeches we are also holding count. There's no point in making miserabilistic speeches. We need to move on; That's what we do!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u140	Mr. Mohamed Laqhila has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u141	The town contracts, Madam Deputy Minister responsible for the city, allow all public policies – economic, social, environmental, educational and cultural at the same time – to be embraced, and to grant actors more than 400 million euros each year, in addition to other financial support. The year 2023 will be a deadline for the renewal of these essential tools for the development and cohesion of the territories. I understand that the Prime Minister has decided to extend city contracts beyond 2022, to allow time for evaluation and reflection on the development of new contracts. This is a strong response to a demand expressed by many local elected officials. Madam Deputy Minister, yesterday you launched a National Committee to reflect on the new generation of city contracts, which you are chairing and of which I am honoured to be a member. I would like to pay tribute to the care you have taken to involve many associative actors, mayors, local elected officials and parliamentarians to reflect on the future of these contracts – this is very good news. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group]] We also know the potential limitations of these: they make it difficult to express local priorities and initiatives; their pilotage is sometimes insufficient; their relationship with common law policies remains perfect. Without prejudging the outcome of our next reflections and in order to involve the entire national representation, can you specify what your priorities and expectations will be regarding this commission?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u142	The Minister responsible for the city has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u143	As you recalled, city contracts expire at the end of 2022. We hope to extend this deadline to 2023 during the parliamentary shuttle of the finance bill (PLF), to carry out the reflection work on the new generation of city contracts. At a time when neighbourhood residents receive stigmatizing, insulting,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u144	From who?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u145	...we prefer, for our part, to act for their well-being, by studying the future of the intervention permitted by the city contracts. Some want to shave these quarters; Others want to send the army there. We are also thinking about how best to intervene in territories with elected officials and how to make city politics more effective and agile.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u146	We have to act!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u147	The committee, composed of local elected representatives, parliamentarians, associations, economic actors and social donors, will have to study these issues. We will also reflect on new approaches, taking into account the challenges of the 21st century, such as ecological transition, youth employment, urban transformation, citizen participation and the safety of residents. We want to go further in differentiation, taking into account the specificities of each territory and reflect on the level of contracting: should the intercommunal and communal levels be maintained, or should we adapt more to the territories? [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] We also want to think about how best to mobilise all partners, regions, departments, social donors, CAF – family allowance funds – and all state operators. We want to study the sustainability of all the devices introduced since 2017. Of course, I will involve the National Council of Cities and all elected associations in this reflection, because it is a matter of developing a policy of intervention for all the territories of the Republic. Mr President, thank you for your involvement.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u148	Mr. Pierre Vatin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u149	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Thanks to the deputy of the group Les Républicains, Jean-Pierre Door, for having once again pulled the alarm bell: yesterday, when the bill on the financing of social security for 2022 was finally read, he alerted about the inability of the Ségur de la santé to contain the crisis of the public hospital. Thank you, Congressman! Minister for Solidarity and Health, the fifth wave of the covid is here. The omicron variant arrives in France; Hospitals are in tension, and some of them have activated the white plan. Doctors are tested, operating units are subjected to an unbridled pace that caregivers find difficult to cope with. The Ségur de la santé and the law of 24 July 2019 implementing the strategy Ma santé 2022 are beautiful dressings. We, the Republicans, who listen to the field, keep repeating to you this simple observation: the revalorisation of wages is not enough to alleviate the crisis in the hospital. On the one hand, half of Segur's EUR 19 billion will be used to cover the social security debt, not to help the hospital; on the other hand, the situation is getting worse. I will give you a concrete example. At the compiègne hospital, 800 operations have been postponed for one year without reprogramming to date, and since September, the operating unit has only been operating at 50% due to staff shortages.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u150	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u151	That's the reality!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u152	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Patients are worried, staff are discouraged, and the Segur of Health does not change it. Minister, since you reject all the Republican proposals, what actions do you intend to take to make the hospital attractive again to employees?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u153	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u154	And eyebrows!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u155	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Exclaims on the banks of the LR and GDR groups]] [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] The French right has changed. I knew the French right-wing who wanted fewer officials, who cut hospital budgets and who considered social security a bottomless well. I have had a French right which, 24 hours ago, did not vote for the social security budget, considering that it proposed too much expenditure. It's never too late to change, but I'm pretty little gullible: I'll believe in change when I see it, and I think I won't have the opportunity to see it in the next few years.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u156	You don't know that! We'll see the election results!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u157	Don't question yourself like that. Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u158	He has nothing to say!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u159	I'm used to it, Mr. President. The Ségur de la santé is 10 billion euros in wage increases. What is the record of the French right in the last twenty years in terms of salary increases in the hospital? Zero. (Applause from a few benches of the LaREM Group. – Continuous exclamations on the benches of the LR group.)
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u160	We weren't in power!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u161	The Ségur de la santé is EUR 19 billion to catch up with the lack of policies that have been pursued for years, if not decades, in terms of hospital investment for the modernisation and reconstruction of hospitals.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u162	And Marisol Touraine you supported, what was she doing?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u163	In 2012, where were you?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u164	What's your report? There was the hospital plan in 2008: it was four times lower than the Segur of the investment we present today. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group. – Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] Nobody says the situation is simple. No one denies the tensions that may exist, nor the fatigue of the caregivers who fight. But do you know what caregivers tell us? They tell us: "Believe in us, help us, support us. They do not want a speech that points at a failing hospital, because the hospital, whenever it was necessary, held. When the number of resuscitation beds had to be multiplied by two, by three or by five, at the moment when your group's deputies were saying that the hospital was going to crack, the hospital made you wrong. Member of Parliament, the hospital will continue to mislead you, and we will continue to support it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u165	Stop yelling, let Mr. Vatin and Mr. Minister speak! Mr. Pierre Vatin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u166	Minister, yesterday's reality is not the reality of today...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u167	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u168	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] ...and it seems to me that you have been in power for ten years.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u169	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u170	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group. – Mr Pierre Vatin asked for the floor]] I therefore look forward to the conclusion of the Republican primary and to the French right making proposals involving more public expenditure and more officials.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u171	Mr Vatin, you have the right to speak only twice in total, and that is no worse, given the level of excitement in the room.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u172	Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u173	Cherbourg, 1925: young Josephine Baker, grappling with joy, approaches a bramero. She dries, dressed in a little coat of nothing. Faces, houses, sky, dogs, cats, accordion, all makes her laugh. She's 19. She is not wary of the epidemic that is ravaging. She's a black, colored young woman. And here's Paris. Seeing people kissing in the street; In Missouri, they're going to jail. Missouri, a cursed land where we hang, lynch and burn the blacks. Josephine goes to know a world where men and women, whatever their colour, sex, neighbourhood, god, do not kill each other. She can defend herself. When a journalist allows herself a judgment on his anatomy, she answers: "What do you want me to do about it, it's a question of human zoology! She will have to wait another seven years to become French. She will live in France. With her black wick stuck on the forehead, she becomes the agry of the cubists, the friend of all artists, painters, musicians, writers. She does not dance on the ruins of the world: she gives strength and joy. Eclates war, she says "no." Resistant, in love with freedom, she participates in the liberation of France, her country. Then comes the national recognition for this woman who inflamed the All-Paris with her gaze, her legs, her outfits, her hips, her voice: medal of the Resistance, Legion of honor, cross of war... Josephine made her life a review of insolence and freedom, generous and just resistance, erotic and fantastic. She offers herself the Château des Milandes: she will welcome her twelve children, her " rainbow tribe". [[Applause on all benches]] Josephine Baker is the sixth woman who honours the Pantheon, to join the only colored man who rests there, Felix Éboué. At a time when France is looking for its landmarks, where Europe is suffering, where the world is fighting, I have two loves: Joséphine and Baker.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u174	The Minister for Gender Equality, Diversity and Equal Opportunities has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u175	The tribute you are paying to Josephine Baker is magnificent, and I thank you for this speech that makes Josephine Baker's fights resonate in the Chamber. Today is not a day like any other. Tonight, Josephine Baker will enter the Pantheon; She will join Simone Veil, Jean Moulin, Marie Curie, Félix Eboué and Germaine Tillion. She will be the sixth woman to integrate the mausoleum of Republican heroes. Josephine Baker had chosen France; Today, it is France that chooses it. It is France that pays tribute to the resistance, the one that risked everything for it during the Second World War. France pays tribute to the tireless activist in the fight against racism and anti-Semitism. It is also France that pays tribute to this icon of emancipation that has carried the flame of freedom high. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and SOC groups]] The decision of the President of the Republic to bring her into the Pantheon is a strong signal, in a country in the throes of self-absorbing. The many struggles she has incarnate echo the stakes of today's society. More than any other, Josephine Baker embodies the Republican triptych; More than any other, it embodies plural France, this France that is free, which is not afraid of mixedness or openness to the other, this generous France. To tell his story is to talk about humanism, it is to talk about universalism and, against the background, it is to talk about France. With it, it is our whole country in its plurality that enters the Pantheon, and it is our past that clings to the present.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u176	Mr Jean François Mbaye has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u177	Minister of Solidarity and Health, on 1 December of each year, we celebrate World AIDS Day. Tomorrow will not be a December 1st like the others, since it will be marked with the seal of forty years of the appearance of the first cases of HIV infection. In 1981, an American health bulletin reported the symptoms of a pathology that was then unknown to the medical and scientific world. Two years later, Professors Françoise Barré-Sinoussi and Willy Rozenbaum, to whom I pay tribute today, discovered what we have known since then under the name of human immunodeficiency virus. Forty years later, unfortunately, the struggle continues. We are engaged in a tough fight to which the Government and the majority have taken their part by deploying operational measures, such as the first pre-prescription of pre-exposure prophylaxis, the PREP, by general practitioners, or the generalization of the experiment "Au labo sans ordo". Initiatives that can be welcomed and build on the progress that has been made for almost half a century. However, this long-term work has been severely undermined by the covid -l9 pandemic. For many months, associative actors have been prevented from carrying out their actions in favour of prevention and screening, causing a significant decrease – estimated at nearly 650,000 – in the number of tests carried out in 2020. Their commitment is also threatened in the long term because of the cancellation of cultural events: to name but one example, each edition of Solidays cancelled has led to an estimated loss of 3.5 million euros. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Not everything is dark and research on covid-l9 gives rise to new hopes, particularly regarding the development of vaccines in the years to come. Regardless of the crisis of the covid-19, combating discrimination and promoting the quality of life of people living with HIV remains necessary.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u178	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u179	It is true that we are on the eve of World AIDS Day. You are right to recall the goal supported by France in the framework of UNAIDS, the Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS, namely the eradication of HIV by 2030. Only 87 per cent of HIV cases are diagnosed in our country, one third of them at an advanced stage of the disease. We must therefore make progress. As you pointed out, covid-19 caused a decline in screening. We immediately took strong steps, such as strengthening information or allowing direct access, without prescription and free of charge, to an HIV test in any medical biology laboratory – as you voted here. I have also made the first prescription of the PREP, the therapy allowing to greatly limit the risk of contamination, accessible in city medicine and pharmacy. Three community-based sexual health centres have opened, and a fourth will open soon. Finally, we approved by decree the cooperation protocol on sexual health consultation by nurses. [[Smile]] Tomorrow, I will launch the new declination of the national sexual health strategy with a roadmap indicating thirty priority actions. We will develop all possible tools to improve and strengthen the detection of other sexually transmitted infections and hepatitis. It is essential to strengthen training, to promote all that exists in the area of sexual health and to increase the sexual supply..., the provision of sexual health by relying on the professionals of first resort and the structures of prevention. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Finally, we will soon be able to count on other weapons, such as the new HIV combination therapy, which will be available by mid-December 2021 at the latest. Thank you for your commitment!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u180	Mrs Frédérique Meunier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u181	In the space of a few days, we still have to face the unimaginable: two women died under the blows of their spouse. The first, on 27 November, was stabbed by her companion, who had just left prison without being informed after serving a sentence for domestic violence. The second, on the night of 28-29 November, was killed by his spouse in the couple's home. Despite the Grenelle of domestic violence launched by the Government in 2019, according to official figures, domestic violence increased by 10 per cent in 2020. Despite the availability of 1,000 anti-approach bracelets in all courts, only 250 violent spouses were sentenced to wear it. How can we improve this system so that it is as effective as in Spain, where violence has decreased by 25%?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u182	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u183	In a statement issued in June 2021, the prosecutors requested the creation of a specialized assistant dedicated to this cause. What about this request? We cannot accept that certain facts should be investigated and tried in three days, while others drag in length. It is essential that complaints of domestic violence be investigated and tried as soon as possible. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] To date, 105 femicides have been reported for the year 2021. We can reverse the tragic trend of rising numbers of women dying in France, victims of this violence. It is necessary that all women in France feel better considered and better protected. There is no fatality to violence. Fear has to change sides. This requires firmness and will. Do you have any? How many deaths do you need for intransigent measures to be put in place?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u184	The Minister for Gender Equality, Diversity and Equal Opportunities has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u185	The facts you are asking me about are obviously very serious. If I may, I would like to point out that it is not domestic violence that has increased by 10%, but the reports submitted by the victims. Madam Member, you know that the commitment of this government, along with the majority and Parliament as a whole, is absolutely total to combat violence against women. Since 2017, four laws have been passed and more than 50 measures have been taken to strengthen the prevention and protection of victims. This government and this majority – this Parliament – have done a great deal to combat this scourge.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u186	Ah! It's all right, then!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u187	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] I didn't say everything was fine, I said a lot had been done. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I am thinking in particular of the 80 per cent increase, since 2017, in the number of shelters for victims, in the 30 centres for the treatment of perpetrators of domestic violence, in the deployment of serious danger telephones, which will number 5000 by the end of 2022.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u188	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u189	You regularly evoke anti-approximate bracelets. Since December 2020, 1000 bracelets have been made available to the courts. The courts issued 676 measures requiring the wearing of one of them. I assure you, honourable Member, that the guard of the seals and all the judicial and corrections services are constantly mobilizing to protect the victims of violence. On 19 May, a circular was issued requesting the courts to systematically inform the victim of the date of release of the perpetrator of the violence, and to regularly reassess the situation and the seriousness of the danger to which the victims are exposed, in order to adapt the mechanisms to protect them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u190	It wasn't done!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u191	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I welcome the decision of the prosecutor to request an investigation to clarify this case.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u192	Mr Meyer Habib has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u193	My question is to the Minister of Economy, Finance and Recovery and concerns the French abroad. Many French people living in Italy and Greece find themselves in a dramatic situation because of changes in local tax administrations. French pensioners in Italy and teachers from French educational institutions in Greece, in particular, are being claimed sums that sometimes amount to tens of thousands of euros and correspond to tax arrears that they should have paid, sometimes since 2014. Why this situation? The Italian and Hellenic tax administrations decided to apply unilaterally the provisions of the 1989 Conventions for Italy and 1963 for Greece. Our ambassadors, with whom I spoke, are aware of the problem. Precisely, Greeks and Italians retroactively claim the difference between the tax paid to the French tax authorities and the amount that would have been due to their tax authorities. Until recently, these provisions of the conventions cited were not applied. These changes are unfair and traumatic for our compatriots. The Minister of Economy, Finance and Recovery is not there; I questioned him by mail on 5 July and by written question on 5 October – alas without receiving any answer. I seized his office, which had committed itself to bringing me elements very quickly. I'm still waiting. There's an emergency! These French can no longer wait – that's the reason for my question. They are threatened with very heavy financial penalties. Many call me disembodied, sometimes in despair. Imagine! It is unfair to receive claims of tens of thousands of euros brutally for years to come! It's impossible for them to pay them! [[Applause on the benches of the IDU-I group]] The minister is the only one, perhaps with the President of the Republic, to be able to intervene. In his absence, I address Mr Jean-Baptiste Lemoyne, Secretary of State for French Foreigners: will you seize your Italian and Greek counterparts to freeze this decision or, at a minimum, cancel the retroactivity? That would be beneficial to our compatriots.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u194	The next speaker is the Minister for Public Accounts.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u195	Your question concerns two different subjects, even if it concerns the application of tax treaties. I was in Greece 15 days ago,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u196	One more trip at the princess' expense!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u197	...and I was able to talk to the consular advisers on this rather particular issue. As you explained, this is the application of the 1963 Convention, which provides for a principle of shared taxation. In order to avoid double taxation, the Greek tax authorities grant taxpayers residing in Greece a tax credit corresponding to the amount paid in France, when they receive income from the public sector – I am thinking in particular of pensioners and teachers of the Agency for the Teaching of French Abroad (AEFE). In some cases, income was not reported in Greece, nor were taxes paid in France, which explains very large differences with the amounts expected. Our ministry and that of Europe and foreign affairs, together with Jean-Yves Le Drian, have taken up the matter. We have obtained from the Greek tax administration that it shows benevolence, first by granting a staggering, then by granting a deadline so that the French tax authorities will tell their Greek counterpart what sums have been paid in France, so as to close the gap. Greece's decision is fully in line with the 1963 Tax Convention. That is one of the reasons why we are renegotiating the Convention. The new Greek version and the French translation were sent to us last week; The Greek Finance Minister and I have expressed the hope that it will be completed and signed very quickly, so as to have standards close to those of the OECD, and that our fellow taxpayers in Greece in France will no longer be in a similar situation. We also provide individual follow-up to cases that may present particular difficulties. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] As far as Italy is concerned, the situation is a little different. The system is comparable, since Article 18 of the 1989 Convention provides for a tax credit to avoid double taxation. We are in the process of verifying that the two French and Italian tax administrations have complied well with the treaty conditions, because some cases raise questions, as you pointed out in your written question. Again, we examine the files on a case-by-case basis, to accompany our compatriots while ensuring that the conventions are respected.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u198	Mr Meyer Habib has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u199	There's an emergency! It is not necessary to spread, but to cancel.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u200	Mr Bastien Lachaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u201	My question is for the Prime Minister. For the past week, the revelations have followed each other. In Egypt, France provided information to the Al-Sissi regime,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u202	All right?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u203	...who used it to bomb civilians, murders, torture, abductions, arbitrary imprisonment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u204	All right?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u205	It did so with the Sirli intelligence operation and by authorizing the deployment of a mass espionage operation, financed by the United Arab Emirates.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u206	That's not good!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u207	The President of the Republic knew; the Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs knew; The minister of armies knew. »
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u208	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u209	They accepted these crimes to sell weapons to a despotic regime, they dared to give the Legion of Honour to the dictator;...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u210	Oh!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u211	What a shame!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u212	...they humiliated France and discredited his word. In the eyes of the world, they make us look like a hypocritical and teaching nation. You constantly talk about the values to be defended in the world, and you constantly flout them. This time, indisputable confidential documents were published: no one – I say no one – dared to deny it! [[Applause on the benches of the FI group and on several benches of the GDR group]] The Government is silent and waiting for it to pass, it is unacceptable. Prime Minister, explain yourself!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u213	The Minister of the Armed Forces has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u214	Get the cots out of here!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u215	[[Protests on the benches of the FI group]] Egypt is a partner of France with which, as with many other countries, we maintain relations in the field of counter-terrorism. This is an assumed position in the service of regional security and the protection of the French.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u216	Counter-terrorism cooperation is good!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u217	Let me go to the end of my answer, please! [[Same movements]] In recent years, the establishment of terrorist groups in Libya, which is a neighbouring country to Egypt, has been a major concern. As part of this cooperation against terrorism, intelligence has been deployed. The rules of engagement of such means meet strict requirements; they define the mission very precisely. I want to be very clear with you, honourable Member: domestic, domestic problems, absolutely unrelated to the fight against terrorism, do not fall within the scope of the mission. These rules are known to the partner and are regularly recalled. In view of these revelations, what have we done?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u218	What a cynicism!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u219	First, I called for an in-depth internal investigation into the information disseminated by the Disclosure platform. The aim is to verify that the rules laid down for such cooperation and the measures taken to ensure their implementation have been effectively implemented. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] You know that the possession and dissemination of classified documents constitutes a flagrant violation of the secrecy of national defence, which endangers the continuation of our intelligence operations. So I went to court in the second place. That's it, MP, where we are.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u220	Mr Bastien Lachaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u221	The fight against terrorism has a good back! You say the rules have been recalled, but have they been respected? The confidential notes you received prior to the President's official visit to Egypt indicated that this was not the case. Did you receive them? Were they true or false? Didn't you then react? Did you need to wait for Disclosure? [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] More seriously, it was Matignon who authorized the export of arms and espionage equipment. These have allowed the repression of human rights activists, opponents and LGBT people. They allowed the spying of activist Ramy Shaath, whose family is French and who has been in prison for two years. The fight against terrorism serves as a pretext for covering the worst turpitudes. It's an odious, short-sighted policy!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u222	Mrs Sandra Marsaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u223	My question is for the Minister responsible for small and medium-sized enterprises. Proximity trade has been at the centre of the debate since the start of the health crisis. This sector, a heavy weight of the French economy, which in 2018 reached a turnover of more than 1400 billion euros, has undergone considerable changes for some 20 years. Our fellow citizens remain very attached to their local businesses. Yet, in the era of black friday – like last Friday – and the rise of digital commerce, exacerbated by the health crisis, consumers have been changing their practices and, for more than ten years, traders have been constantly adapting to new consumption patterns. As a result, it is essential to maintain and boost local businesses in our territories, in our neighbourhoods, in our small and medium-sized cities. As part of the fact-finding mission on the role and future of community commerce in the animation and planning of the territory, my colleagues and I are trying to answer this complex question: what policy should we take to address this issue? After more than forty hearings, we can already say that the future of trade obviously depends on economic and technological factors, but also on proactive spatial planning policies. [[Mr. Ugo Bernalicis exclaimed]] Trade is the key indicator of a territory's economic health. It is never condemned, since local elected officials show voluntarism. I pay tribute to those who are successfully fighting to support and develop trade in small and medium-sized cities. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] The State also has a role to play. You, too, place political will at the heart of your action to adapt this sector to the challenges of the future. You'll open the trade floor tomorrow. Can you give us an outline and define the objectives of the Government? Thank you for your diligence!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u224	The next speaker is the Minister for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u225	Trade is one of the pillars of our identity, our villages, our cities, our metropolises. There is no France without commerce. As you said, it represents 1500 billion turnover, of which 500 billion is for retail trade. During the period of closure due to the health crisis, we were able to measure how important it was in France. In addition, this sector represents more than 3 million jobs. It is linked to spatial planning and, in recent years, has been undergoing a change due to the arrival of new technologies. It is important that we analyse how trade will continue to be heavily affected. Bruno Le Maire, Minister of Economy, Finance and Recovery; Élisabeth Borne, Minister for Labour, Employment and Integration; Jacqueline Gourault, Minister of Territorial Cohesion and Relations with Local and Regional Authorities and I are organizing the trade floor, which will begin tomorrow and will take place throughout December.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u226	It's about time!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u227	On this occasion, we will listen to all the actors involved – representatives of big business, small business and digital commerce – to exchange with them, to try to share the findings and to define paths of evolution, regardless of the subjects. There's no red line, no taboo subject. We know that the problems concern rents, land use planning, stocks, and many other areas, so we will address all the issues. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I hope that by the end of December we will be in a position to publish a report, and perhaps to submit to Parliament certain arrangements, in any case to include in the public debate the subject of trade, which is essential for our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u228	Mr Fabien Di Filippo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u229	Mr Minister for Health and Solidarity, in addressing the issue of nitrous oxide, I urge you, as a matter of urgency, to tighten up the decrees governing the sale and consumption of this hilarious gas. But I also wish to alert all parents and teachers in our country about the dangers of a substance that becomes commonplace in the festive moments of teenagers and students. The poignant testimonies are multiplied by parents who were unaware of the existence of this gas and could not prevent the dramas that are now repeated every week. For example, these 20-year-olds, who no longer feel their hands or can no longer move their feet and who say, "The problem with the proto is that you never have enough and it's very easy to access." Burning of the trachea, fainting, road accidents, cardiac arrest; After a few months of consumption, some users suffer from permanent neurological disorders and memory loss. Health restrictions affect the morale of young people, the consumption of hilarious gas is spreading rapidly, and the law of 1 June 2021 to prevent the dangerous use of nitrous oxide did not prevent massive purchases on the Internet for misuse, motorized rodeos under its disinhibiting influence, the sale of balloons in a nightclub or the delivery in one hour on social networks. Less than 30 cents a cartridge on the internet, this drug of the poor facilitates, even more than cannabis, the drift of a young person towards slavery of addiction or hard drugs.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u230	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u231	We must reject society from the erasure of landmarks and the levelling of values, which exposes our youth as never before. We must show zero tolerance for any drug that destroys lives and families. So, Minister, when will you decide on the total ban on the sale of nitrous oxide to non-professionals, as well as on its possession and consumption?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u232	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u233	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Mrs Valérie Six also applauds]] Will we soon be able to make its consumption an aggravating circumstance in the event of a road accident? When will massive awareness-raising campaigns be carried out in schools? Let's hit hard, let's be a deterrent, let's protect our children!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u234	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u235	The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Children and Families.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u236	Congressman Filippo...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u237	Di Filippo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u238	Mr Di Filippo, the whole of what you call your wishes is indeed at the centre of the Government's action. As you mentioned, it was a real public health problem that first affected the north of the country and then spread to Paris, Bordeaux and the Great East, your region. Nitrogen protoxide is the third most consumed psychoactive product among students. The Government is, of course, taking full account of this public health problem, together with parliamentarians. I wish to acknowledge the early action of Valérie Létard in the Senate and Valérie Six in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u239	And Mr. Bernalicis!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u240	The law of 1 June 2021, which you refer to, has made it possible to take several concrete measures to minimise the consumption of nitrous oxide by young people, with the offence of inciting a minor to misuse a common consumer product. It is the whole difficulty of this problem: nitrous oxide per se is not illegal, its misuse is the problem. Incitement to misuse for a minor is accompanied by a fine of EUR 15000. The law also prohibits the sale of nitrous oxide to minors, regardless of packaging, and to adults in certain places – beverage outlets, tobacco offices, discotheques. It also prohibits the sale of any product specifically intended to facilitate the extraction of nitrous oxide or to obtain psychoactive effects – I am thinking in particular of crackers or balloons dedicated to this misuse. Finally, it requires a statement indicating the danger of misuse, in particular on the websites marketing it. In terms of prevention – a lever that you have mentioned – the danger of misuse is now integrated into the annual information given to all pupils from college and high school as part of the provisions applied to the school. Please also be aware that the draft decrees could be adopted in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u241	Mr Fabien Di Filippo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u242	I wish you'd shown the will to go further. That's not enough.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u243	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u244	Mrs Isabelle Santiago has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u245	My question is for the Minister of Solidarity and Health. Minister, I'm not teaching you anything, the health care system in the hospital is in crisis. The medical and social sector is in serious crisis following the crisis of the covid and the Ségur de la santé: unprecedented difficulties in recruiting and retaining qualified professionals; drop-out of wages; decrease in purchasing power; flight of skills to higher-paying sectors; massive departures of professionals from France to the province; Degradation of the social climate. The health crisis, in addition to the crisis in the hospital, is a powerful accelerator of a set of factors that the medical-social sector and the health sector have been facing for several years. These questions are recalled almost every Tuesday by all parliamentarians, who see the situation deteriorate in their territory and the French worry about their most valuable asset: access to quality health care. This crisis is the one that sees hospital beds shut down for lack of staff. Let us take the example of mental health: because of the lack of hospital beds, some patients are no longer treated in day hospital or hospitalized, but sent home with drugs – whether they take or not – while knowing the risk this poses to the community as a whole; young people in great suffering are entrusted to their parents, while they can do so at home because of the lack of hospital beds to accommodate them. Minister, I know you know this: health professionals are exhausted and resign; their teams are offending; In some territories, emergencies close at 6 p.m. This crisis is also the one that sees medical deserts gaining ground every day, returning at the same time to the Republic's promise to be present in all territories with our fellow citizens. Most importantly, we voted for the measures you have taken to resolve this crisis, including the end of the logic behind the numerus clausus...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u246	Thank you, Member. The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u247	It is true that these issues come back to Parliament on a recurring basis. This is quite normal, because it affects the heart of our citizens: health is one of the first services and one of the first legitimate demands of the French. I have points of agreement and points of disagreement with you. When you say that there is a drop in wages and a drop in purchasing power in the health and medical-social sectors, that is f currently not true. We increased wages by at least 200 net euros per month, which had never happened. It's not a stall, or it's a stall up, expected for years. The purchasing power is increased for the 2.5 million white coats and employees, who are not necessarily in contact with the sick, but who work in hospitals and in EHPADs. That's to restore the facts. As far as psychiatry is concerned, it is a recurring and old problem. Positions are open and funded – we are not there in a logic of means – but do not find a taker. The exercise of psychiatry is particularly difficult; The fewer psychiatrists you have, the more the workload rests on the other psychiatrists, the more they run out and go into town, or do something else. This is a real difficulty, which has been described for 15 years already in the parliamentary reports. We are increasing massively the number of psychiatrists in training. Together with Frédérique Vidal, the Minister of Higher Education, Research and Innovation, we also announced the modification of the graduate degree (DES): we move the model to five years to train future psychiatrists and child psychiatrists. Two months ago, under the aegis of the President of the Republic, the foundations of psychiatry and mental health – which are not integrated into the Segur, but are complementary – proposed new solutions expected by the French: eight psychologist consultations paid per year; It's a huge step forward! We have created hundreds of posts in medical-psychological centres (CMPs) everywhere, and we are strengthening the resources devoted to psychiatry. Parliament also voted for a text providing that the psychiatry budget should, no matter what, be increased annually at least in line with that of the overall health budget. We are really mobilizing important resources on this. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] You're saying that professionals quit. No, ma'am! There's always been people leaving the hospital. There was fatigue and post-covid tension, which we can understand, but there is no bleeding of caregivers in the hospital. I simply ask you not to have too pejorative a speech in view of the situation and the real problems it poses. That's not what caregivers expect us to do in the period.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u248	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u249	Mr Minister of Solidarity and Health, as you know, this is an undeniable fact now: 11.6% of the French population live in an under-funded area of general practitioners. An even larger number of our fellow citizens are more than 30 minutes away from an emergency department. Access to care is, in fact, the main concern of the French. She had spontaneously imposed herself during the national debate invented to stifle the anger of the yellow vests. If the medical deserts, their mapping and the structural responses to them are the subject of regular discussions between us, have we tried everything to remedy them? We don't believe that. It is in this spirit that, together with the Communist and Republican deputies, we have decided to table a concrete and pragmatic bill, the objective of which is shared here on many benches. Without going into the details – we have already talked about it – it is a matter of adapting the increase in training according to the needs of each region; to help young people finance their studies in order to democratise access to them, in return for a temporary installation obligation in the under-funded areas; generalize a form of selective agreement; strengthen the capacity of community hospitals to develop, in particular, specialist offers. Mr Minister, in committee, your majority has remained closed to any proposal, considering that the deletion of the numerus clausus was sufficient. Indispensable – as everyone says – this measure will not be enough. In these circumstances, should we tell the French who live in a medical desert that they will have to wait ten years? No, three times no! [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group. – Mr. Alain David also applauds]] Will you move and respond to the appeal of the President of the Republic who, in the Hauts-de-France on 19 November last, invited us – invited you – to be more innovative and more incentive, or will you, to respond to the lobbys, continue to promote immobilism so that nothing changes?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u250	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u251	I can be blamed for a lot of things, but certainly not for being a medical minister of health who would respond to the lobby.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u252	I didn't say that!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u253	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] I believe I have demonstrated this, since in the PLFSS, the Social Security Financing Bill, parliamentarians have adopted the experiment of direct access to kines and speech therapists, for example, and the possibility for orthoptists to prescribe glasses. It will not have escaped you that corporatisms have risen to say that we were going too far. I consider that we are not going too far, since we are improving access to French care in the territories, without denying the quality, safety and continuity of care; We will continue to do so. We will continue to do so because our country has fallen behind in advanced practice and interprofessional cooperation. I am in discussion with IADE – state graduate anaesthetist nurses – whose legitimate claim I hear is to go further in prescribing and develop a form of medicalization of their profession. I will soon have a report from the Inspectorate-General for Social Affairs on the specialist nursing professions. I am absolutely open to all these transformations, in the same way that I have been able to use telemedicine. Let me at least acknowledge the merit of having taken the order that allowed the number of telemedicine consultations to increase by one hundred, overnight! With Frédérique Vidal, we have increased the number of nursing and nursing positions in training by 6,000 and the number of young doctors in training by 2,500. You're right, it takes time to train doctors and the removal of the numerus clausus does not magically make doctors appear by thousands in the territories. Nevertheless, we continue to strengthen the continuity of care with the access-to-care service, experienced in many territories, which involves Liberals and hospitals, with better co-operation of care. We sent over 2,000 medical assistants to the city offices to free up medical time. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Mr. Member, last week we had the opportunity at my department to talk together, as well as with President Chassaigne, about coercion: I don't believe it. Not by corporatism, but because in a period of global shortage, preventing doctors from settling where they wish to bring them to other territories is creating medical deserts and strengthening them where they already exist. If for five years you prevent doctors from settling in Albi to go to the mountains, not far from Albi, you strengthen the medical deserts in Albi, because they will tell you that there too we lack doctors. Yes to innovation, no to coercion!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u254	We have completed the questions to the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u255	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u256	[[The meeting was suspended at 16.55 p.m. and resumed at 17.05 p.m. with Ms. Laetitia Saint-Paul in the chair.]]
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u257	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u258	The next item is the continuation of the discussion of the bill to strengthen the right to abortion (No. 3793, 3879).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u259	Last night, the Assembly began discussion of the articles of the bill, with identical amendments Nos 31, 157, 288 and 433 to Article 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u260	I have before me four identical amendments, Nos 31, 157, 288 and 433. I call Mr Fabien Di Filippo to support Amendment No. 31.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u261	It aims to delete the second paragraph of Article 1, in accordance with the opinions of the Academy of Medicine and the National College of French Gynaecologists and Obstetricians – CNGOF. We relay their position: to extend from 12 to 14 weeks of pregnancy the duration of recourse to voluntary termination of pregnancy (IVG) is not a good choice. We can use many other devices, such as awareness-raising about contraception and unwanted pregnancies or faster management of abortions in hospitals. According to the doctors, extending the time to resort to abortion means changing the nature of the abortion: whereas at twelve weeks, the foetus is sucked, at fourteen weeks, its skull is boned and it needs to be dilated from the cervix to get it out. Gynaecological consequences may be serious, particularly in the context of future pregnancies during which premature deliveries may occur. For medical reasons, we are calling for the extension of this deadline to be abolished.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u262	I call Mr Patrick Hetzel to support Amendment No. 157.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u263	Article 1 provides for the extension of the duration of access to the IVG from 12 to 14 weeks. We had the opportunity to say this: at this stage of development, the skull of the foetus is boned and, within the legal framework, only surgical IVGs can be performed. Many professionals, even among the most committed on these issues – I am thinking in particular of Professor Israel Nisand in Strasbourg – warn that such an extension will lead to a very complex technical gesture. As the Academy of Medicine points out, if we extend the deadline to 16 weeks of amenorrhea, we will increase the use of surgical manoeuvres that can be dangerous for women, as our colleague Fabien Di Filippo reminded us right now. Moreover, most women do not ask for this prolongation. Minister, last night you did not answer a very simple question: the number is difficult to obtain, but we would like to know how many women would be affected by such a mechanism.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u264	The minister replied.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u265	Yesterday, you called me and told me that my arguments were misleading; It is your public policy that is a problem. The bill is intended to solve a public policy problem, but if you did your job properly, we would not have to discuss these issues.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u266	Amendment No 288 by Mr Frédéric Reiss is being defended. Mrs Nathalie Serre has the floor to support Amendment No. 433.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u267	I simply request the deletion of the article which provides for the extension of the time limit for recourse to the IVG.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u268	Mrs Albane Gaillot, rapporteur of the Committee on Social Affairs, has the floor to give the Committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u269	If we respond to the arguments you put forward in support of these amendments, we will not do so systematically afterwards. Let us look at the lengthening of the time limits for recourse to the IVG that we are defending in this bill. It is not a whirlwind of women or feminist activists, but the result of the field meetings that have been taking place for months or even years, Cécile Muschotti, Marie-Noëlle Battistel and the delegation to women's rights and equal opportunities between men and women (DDF). For my part, I was still yesterday at the Orthogeny Centre - IVG of the Bicêtre Hospital, where medical staff indicated the need to extend the time. You tell us that the Academy of Medicine and some gynaecologists insist on the technical and practical difficulties which, as the delays extend, make the practice of abortion more complicated for both doctors and women. Other gynaecologists, feminist associations and health professionals recognize that, while these difficulties exist, the challenge is women's right to dispose of their bodies, because today some women cannot have abortions. We can fight the numbers: how many are they? 500, 800, 2000? Marie-Noëlle Battistel recalled yesterday: "If only 500 women did not have access to IVG in France, it would still be 500 too many for which solutions would have to be found". I recall that in its opinion, the National Ethics Advisory Council – CCNE – indicated that there was no hindrance to extending the deadline. We are therefore against the amendments to delete the second paragraph of Article 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u270	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor to give the Government's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u271	Advice of wisdom, consistent with the government's position.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u272	Mrs Cécile Muschotti has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u273	Colleagues, we recalled this at length yesterday during the general discussion: this bill is the result of work carried out on the ground by the DDF. Together with my colleague Marie-Noëlle Battistel, we went to meet all those who are confronted with the demands of abortion, who practice abortions and those who are prevented from doing so, in order to understand how we could remove certain obstacles to access to the right to abortion. This is not a bioethical issue, but to ensure the safety of women who are sometimes forced to go abroad when the legal deadline is exceeded. In these circumstances, we are not in a position to guarantee the safety of care. The extension of the deadline is complementary to the other measures in the bill and is essential to ensure respect for women's rights and health. We took the time to hear from those who opposed it or expressed reservations about the medical gesture. We are not doctors; We have considered and made a diagnosis based on the experience of the field, taking into account the territory and the time in which we live. We concluded that the time frame for recourse to the IVG should be extended. Delete this subparagraph would be tantamount to deleting this article; This is not the direction we must take.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u274	Mr Patrick Hetzel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u275	Yesterday, when the discussion of the text began in the Chamber, we were supposed to have real debates. It is surprising, however, that you are not answering our legitimate questions, Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u276	Yes, he did!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u277	It would be interesting to have the opinion of the Government; In general, you're pretty quiet, minister. However, you give a wise opinion on these amendments. Are you on the same line as the President of the Republic who is opposed to the bill or, on the contrary, are you in favour of it in your capacity as minister? For once, it's good for you to let your majority do something that seems to bother you.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u278	We don't belong to the majority!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u279	At times, you were much less inclined to let it be, and then you could call it the Playmobil majority. We would like to know what drives this difference in treatment. The majority is quite plural. What position do you stand in the Government? Yesterday, during the general discussion, your remarks were rather ambiguous.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u280	The amendments were not adopted, as they received the same number of votes in favour and against.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u281	Mr Patrick Hetzel has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u282	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] My point of order is based on Rule 58(1) of the Rules of Procedure and seeks clarification of how the vote is counted. Indeed, while the vote was already under way, by a "sitting-up" vote, three Members entered the Chamber, which changed the meaning of the vote. They should have been allowed to enter the Chamber only after the vote. Otherwise, the result is flawed. With all due respect, Madam President, there is a problem of form. On this vote, without these three additional Members, we were the majority! Since the majority refuses to mobilise on this text, that it assumes the consequences and that the majority Members do not mobilize to prevent our amendments from being adopted!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u283	The majority don't get involved?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u284	I hope that my speech will be relayed to the Bureau of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u285	Where were you last night?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u286	Stop voicing, Mr. Castaner! You obviously don't control your majority anymore!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u287	That's lamentable! What godillots! I'm leaving!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u288	I repeat that, when there are equal votes in favour and against, the amendments are not adopted.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u289	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 49 and 458. I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support Amendment No. 49.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u290	You announced an ex æquo vote, Madam President, but three votes should have been cut off from that result.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u291	No! There was equality without the entrants!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u292	It is a shame to have to look at the text under such conditions. The bill seeks to change the balance of the Veil Act by extending the statutory time limits for termination of pregnancy. Beyond the subjects you mentioned, the rapporteur, this raises ethical questions, not only for the child in the future, but also for the woman who is carrying, especially for her health.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u293	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u294	From an ethical point of view, the consideration of the embryo that has become fetuses and the risk to women is likely to change according to the time frame. That is why it exists. Why keep twelve weeks rather than fourteen? It is in the light of the ethical requirement that a limit must be set in time. The CCNE, which had issued an opinion in 2010 on the extension of time limits, was based on a broader vision: it invited questions about the circumstances and the factors. To the answer given by this bill, should we not prefer a reflection on means? In order to avoid interventions that are too late, as Professor Nisand once again recalled last night, highlighting the risks to women's health, should we not go back to the deadlines set out in this opinion of the CCNE in 2010?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u295	I call Mr Patrick Hetzel to support Amendment No. 458.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u296	Our colleague Thibault Bazin has just rightly mentioned the words of Professor Israel Nisand, head of the gynaecology-obstetrics department of the Strasbourg University Hospitals, whose arguments deserve to be taken into account. Professor Nisand stresses in particular the fact that at twelve weeks, a fetus measures 85 millimetres from head to buttocks,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u297	Ah, definitely!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u298	...but at fourteen weeks, it measures 120 millimetres and its head is ossified, which means that it is necessary to cut the foetus into pieces...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u299	That's it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u300	[[Mrs Albane Gaillot and Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel, rapporteur of the Committee on Social Affairs, strongly protest]] ... and crush his head to get him out of the woman's belly. What I'm saying is purely factual. It can be understood that this is quite difficult to achieve for many professionals. The professor also indicated that he had initiated the previous extension of the appeal period from 10 to 12 weeks of pregnancy in 2001. According to him, many colleagues then decided to stop doing abortions, which caused a serious human resource problem that had not been anticipated. This will happen again if the delay is further extended and access to the IVG will thus be reduced, i.e. the opposite effect of the expected one! Mr Nisand does not belong to the Republican Group, but his statements are extremely clear. He was also very committed to his profession and to women's rights.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u301	That's it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u302	You cannot sweep his arguments, saying "move, there is nothing to see," because he is one of the people who are confronted with this type of situation on a daily basis.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u303	What is the opinion of the committee on these identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u304	Unfavorable opinion. Colleagues, you highlight the well-being of women to limit their fundamental right to abortion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u305	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u306	Do you think that it is more traumatic for a woman wishing to resort to an abortion, not to be able to do so or to have to do so between twelve and fourteen weeks? We think it's more traumatic not to be able to do it. The aim of this text is to find solutions for women who do not have one after 12 weeks. As you yourself have indicated, the vast majority of abortions take place before ten weeks of pregnancy, which is actually the best: the sooner abortions are performed and in good conditions, the better. However, the text aims to make effective the right to abortion for women who wish to do so, which means extending the time limit for recourse to abortion from 12 to 14 weeks: all field studies converge on the existence of problems of access, particularly territorial, to the voluntary termination of pregnancy. One of the solutions – you are right – also consists of fluidizing the journey of the IVG, which is also provided for in the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u307	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u308	You're almost touching it, Congressman Hetzel! You present yourself almost as a great advocate of access to the abortion, explaining to us that it is fundamental that women can have access to it in good conditions. Thus, reducing the time frame for the implementation of the IVG would facilitate access, as more professionals would practice it... [[MM. Patrick Hetzel and Olivier Marleix protest]] You wear the clothes of the defense of the IVG to better defend it, otherwise you would not have voted against marriage for all, against medical assistance in procreation (AMP) for all women, against research on embryonic stem cells,. We spent three days and three nights in this Chamber, and you were against embryonic stem cell research. However, this one has helped to develop the vaccine against covid: fortunately we did not listen to you! Mr. Congressman, take your positions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u309	I'll take them!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u310	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] You have the right and they are totally valid, even if we do not share them. But please don't try to make national representation believe that your goal is to defend women's access to abortion, because it's not credible. Very unfavourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u311	You're mixing everything, Minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u312	Mr Julien Aubert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u313	I am very surprised at the answer that is given to us!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u314	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u315	[[Albane Gaillot, rapporteur, protest]] IVG is a delicate subject, which in Parliament has never been easy. It is even more difficult to talk about it when you are a man, because women are more sensitive to it. You caricature him, explaining, basically modo, that if my colleague is opposed to the AMP for all...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u316	All of them!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u317	Even at the AMP!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u318	... for all or to research on embryonic stem cells, this means that there is a large conservative maelström of people who are against everything. Why don't you respect each other's opinions?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u319	I respect them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u320	Why don't you shudder when you hear my colleague say that an abortion at twelve or fourteen weeks is not the same, because you have to break a skull and cut a fetus into pieces? Is there not an ontological difference...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u321	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u322	...who would deserve to be debated? The question relates not only to the fundamental right of women, but also to what happens to the foetus. This debate is not forbidden! There is no reason to oppose the good and the bad: on the one hand, there are no people against abortion, and on the other hand, those who would be in favour of it, or those who would be in favour of progress, while others would be against women!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u323	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u324	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, If, on such a complex debate, you consider that people who do not agree with your position, who try to draw attention to the ethical consequences, are in any case hostile to women and the abortion, this means that you switch to the compressor roller on a sensitive subject, and you are instrumentalizing it. It is a little easy to always stand on the side of progress, considering that there are the good and the bad. On this complicated text, I would like us to be able to obtain technical answers and discuss topics that go far beyond the law.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u325	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u326	I will rely on the CCNE report, which was often referred to yesterday, even if, in fact, everyone chooses the arguments that fix it. The opinions of the CCNE are interesting, especially when it is necessary to read them carefully. To ensure a real and effective right of access to abortion, doctors are required. However, the CCNE report indicates that a survey conducted by the CNGOF in October 2020 provided advice to 783 physicians, 542 of whom practiced GVI; 72% of the gynaecologists-obstetricians interviewed objected to the extension of the legal time limit for abortion to 14 weeks. It's not nothing. How will we do if there are no doctors to practice GVI? The CCNE report also states that "notably psychologically, the consequences of late abortion in women are also complex, since it is an intervention, never trivial, whose experience is different because of the advancement of pregnancy and the physical and psychological changes involved. As pregnancy progresses, the psychological consequences of an abortion can become increasingly burdensome. The evolution of the representation of the foetus is a central element to be taken into account, for both the woman and the doctor". I would therefore like to draw your attention to this point: if you extend the deadline to guarantee women a real and effective right of access to abortion, but the gynaecologists no longer agree to practise it, we will not be very advanced.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u327	I have before me three identical amendments, Nos 12, 104 and 158. Mrs Marie-France Lorho has the floor to support Amendment No. 12.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u328	An unborn child is not a right, it is a child. At three months, it weighs 100 grams and measures 14 centimetres. His legs and arms are visible on the ultrasound. If he's in a good position, sometimes you can even detect his sex. The president of the NGOF himself said that extending the right of appeal to the abortion to three months is not desirable. According to him, an IVG at 14 weeks is a heavy and potentially dangerous act: by dilating the neck more significantly, you create a risk of perforation, haemorrhage and postoperative infection. The later an IVG is, the more harmful it is for the woman. The aim of this amendment is to deny an extension of the use of IVG, fatal for the child and traumatic for the mother.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u329	Amendment No 104 by Mr Xavier Breton is being defended. I call Mr Patrick Hetzel to support Amendment No. 158.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u330	It is intended to delete paragraph 3, which provides for the systematization of the presentation of each method by the health professionals consulted in order to guarantee women the right to choose the method of abortion that best suits them. This provision is not balanced in that it does not propose any alternatives to GVI. We are in a single vision, that there is only one way, that of the IVG, and we no longer make any other proposal. It is a breach of balance that is at the very foundation of the Veil law.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u331	You wouldn't have passed the Veil law!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u332	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u333	These amendments tend to delete the third paragraph of Article 1, which aims to strengthen the right to information. It is now apparent that some women are not well informed about the possibility of opting for an IVG drug. It is not a question of limiting information to the GVI, but of improving the information they currently have on all the opportunities you are referring to, and particularly on the GVI. The purpose of this provision is to enable women to choose the method that best suits them. The opinion is therefore unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u334	I call Mr Gosselin to support Amendment No. 152, which is the subject of two sub-amendments Nos. 485 and 531.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u335	The purpose of this editorial amendment is to clarify that anyone can be informed about abortive methods and choose one freely, as this is a possibility and not a right.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u336	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support sub-amendment No. 485.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u337	Women who wish to abort must indeed be fully informed of all the options available to them and, with regard to abortion, of the various abortive methods in force, of how to proceed as possible consequences. I mentioned a few moments ago the psychological consequences that a late abortion can have – and I'm not saying it – for both women and doctors who practice them because technically, the size of the fetus changes everything. This information is all the more important as the proposed law tends to increase the statutory time limit from 12 to 14 weeks. [[Exclaims on panels of commissions]] The main union of obstetric gynaecologists states that they are considering this change of legislation "with horror" – these are its terms. According to its president Bertrand de Rochambeau, this measure is likely to have the opposite effect to that expected, fewer and fewer professionals agreeing to practice the act, and it explains with details certainly a little raw, but which simply express the reality, what a IVG actually means at fourteen weeks: at this stage of development, the foetus has the appearance of a human being that the operator has to grind with a clamp before extracting from the uterus parts of arms, legs, heads. As for the woman, she is exposed to immediate complications such as tearing or bleeding, or late, such as an increased risk of premature delivery in later pregnancy. These words are not mine. Not being a gynecologist, I wouldn't allow myself to say that kind of thing. It seems to me extremely important that the woman who will be subjected to this act be fully and fully informed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u338	That's what this is about!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u339	I call Mr Nicolas Meizonnet to support sub-amendment No. 531.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u340	I would like to take this opportunity to reaffirm the opposition of the National Assembly's elected representatives to the bill and to the extension of the statutory deadline for recourse to the IVG from 12 to 14 weeks. In my view, no one here wants to question the right to abortion or the right of women to dispose of their bodies. We are here on a subject that calls for prudence and humility because it affects the intimate, the life, and we must be respectful of each other's ideas. You tell us that the purpose of this bill is to allow women to use the abortion, which would face a multitude of obstacles due to the lack of information, structures, practitioners and information. But instead of directly addressing the root causes of the problem by remedying this lack of structures and practitioners, which is your responsibility, Minister, you are proposing as the only solution to extend the legal deadline for recourse to the IVG. But you are constantly told that the later the abortion is, the greater the consequences, even dangerous, physically and psychologically. We would like to know, minister, whether you agree and why you wish to extend this period by fourteen weeks, rather than thirteen weeks, as proposed, or fifteen or sixteen.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u341	We've been saying it for ten minutes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u342	It's laborious!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u343	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u344	Unfavorable opinion, for the reasons mentioned above.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u345	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u346	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Mrs Ménard, I do not dispute with the gynaecologist that you take as a reference the right to defend such a position, but it is interesting to recall all of his positions. In 2018, he explained on a television set that he no longer made IVG himself because he considered that he was not there to suppress lives. When the journalist tells him that an IVG is not a homicide, this gynecologist answers him that he is. He has the right to defend these positions, I repeat, but they cannot serve as a scientific guarantee for your proposals. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u347	Mrs Perrine Goulet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u348	Under the pretext of defending editorial amendments, you systematically engage in off-the-spot developments...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u349	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u350	... telling us that an IVG is traumatic. Putting an end to a pregnancy has consequences, we do not deny it, we do have to extract a fetus, but at some point we have to stop embarking, every time we defend an amendment, on these descriptions that are useless. You can repeat them for hours, it won't change our mind. I'd also like to hear you talk about the woman from time to time. When will you talk about the mother, the relationship she'll have with a child she'll be forced to keep and raise when she wasn't ready for it? What do we do for this child? I don't feel like you're worried about it. You evoke the sacrosanct character of life, but the life of the mother is also important, if not more important. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Finally, I would remind you that gynaecologists will not be forced to perform abortions at fourteen weeks. The aim is to give women who have exceeded the 12-week deadline and who are not in a position to keep the child the opportunity to ask a gynaecologist who accepts her to perform an abortion for up to 14 weeks. It is not a question of coercing anyone, but of strengthening women's rights. Stop, then, repeating yourself constantly, caricature our positions: we will not change any more than you.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u351	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u352	Yes, minister, Bertrand de Rochambeau refuses to carry out IVGs: it is called the conscience clause. If you are against the conscience clause, if gynaecologists no longer have the right to refuse to carry out IVGs, we can stop the debate there, as Mr Goulet has just proposed. You have already decided on everything: the deadlines must be extended, midwives must be able to do everything the same as doctors and doctors no longer have the right to the conscience clause, nor do midwives, I imagine, pharmacists or other health personnel. [[Applause among non-attached Members and on several benches in the LR Group. – Protests on the benches of the LaREM group]] Still happy that the conscience clause exists. It was Simone Veil's will, I remind those who claim to be her all the time.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u353	On Article 1, I am seized by the La République en marche Group and the Les Républicaines Group of a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 443 and 459, which are the subject of four sub-amendments Nos 487, 551, 488 and 532. I call Mr Gosselin to support Amendment No. 443.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u354	You want the rapporteur to talk about mothers and women, well! We're going to do it, because what we want is for them to really have a choice. What we are proposing in this amendment, which concerns privacy and life, is that alternatives to abortion should be presented, whereas all this text proposes only an extension of the legal deadline, which will never be enough. Going from twelve to fourteen weeks may solve some difficulties for a few hundred or even a few thousand women, but not for all, and tomorrow we will propose – why not? – to increase to sixteen weeks, then to eighteen, or even twenty or more, as we see in states like the United Kingdom. If it is really a matter for you to guarantee the freedom of choice of these women, which is ultimately questionable, present them with material, financial alternatives that will enable them to make an informed choice, instead of systematically presenting the use of abortion as the only response to their distress. If you are for free choice, for a fully informed choice, you cannot be against this amendment, which preserves the content of the article.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u355	I call Mr Patrick Hetzel to support Amendment No. 459.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u356	On such a subject, it is nevertheless interesting to listen to what the professionals say, even if, of course, the aim is to know the point of view of all the people concerned. Thus, according to Professor Florence Bretelles, an obstetrician gynaecologist of the public-hospital assistance of Marseilles (AP-HM), this text will not regulate anything. I quote: "Most of the out-of-time patients we see are usually seventeen or eighteen weeks pregnant. For her part, she felt it was necessary to introduce an obligation to offer a consultation because the exceeding of legal deadlines reflected the difficulties women had in accessing abortion. It is a point, minister, that you seem to be moving away from one side of your hand, but I would like to remind you, and I will repeat it as often as it will be necessary: if the course were to proceed normally, this question would not arise. Moreover, the arguments used by those who defend this text today are exactly those used in 2001 to increase the time limit from 10 to 12 weeks. At the time, the Government had undertaken to establish a health watch on the evolution of the consequences of this provision. Minister, since this measure is included in the law and the Government has committed itself to it, why is this health watch not in place? You can't just say, "Move, there's nothing to see! » Your responsibility is engaged, and that is what we need to debate before referring to a possible extension of the deadline.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u357	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support sub-amendment No. 487.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u358	It tends to clarify the amendment made by my colleagues in the Republican Group. Indeed, abortion is not an annoyance, as we have all repeated, and as I believe we all agree, it is necessary to bring to the attention of women who wish to abort or who think that they will do so the existing alternatives, so that they can make their decisions freely, especially when they envisage abortion because of a difficult economic or financial situation. In fact, support for pregnant women or young mothers is too often overlooked.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u359	No, you know that! There are associations and an appointment!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u360	Sometimes you can make yourself a mountain of some problems that seem easier to manage when you are helped and supported. All these mechanisms are very important and must be brought to the attention of these women. These include expenditure and medical care, as well as possible financial support for future mothers in difficulty, ranging from the RSA pregnant woman, which few women are aware of, to the emergency assistance of the family allowance fund (CAF), to the assistance of the communal social action centre (CCAS), and measures for pregnant women who are employed or pregnant unemployed. There is also, to prepare for the arrival of the baby before delivery, the birth premium which – and I take this opportunity to congratulate the majority – is now paid during the seventh month of pregnancy. Where the abortion project is not linked to a physical or sentimental problem or to private life, or to financial or economic circumstances, information on all these aids, which are often unknown, may enable the woman to make her decision in complete freedom and with full information.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u361	Mrs Catherine Pujol has the floor in support of sub-amendment No 551.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u362	Mr Minister, we know that every year 3000 to 4000 French women undergo an abortion after the legal deadline by going abroad. However, it is not by delaying the legal duration of abortion from 12 to 14 weeks that we will eliminate their approach. However, let us not forget that, given the development of the foetus, this measure potentially endangers the health of pregnant women. Experts are almost unanimous in saying that the more late abortion occurs, the heavier and dangerous the operation is for women.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u363	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u364	Moreover, it is paradoxical to extend the legal time limit for the use of abortion while too many women fail to abort within the legal time limits, because hospitals do not have the necessary resources. The IVG is a right, but it must be noted that equal access to the IVG is not guaranteed in practice. In addition, it seems particularly inappropriate to remove the 48-hour time limit for reflection.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u365	It's not in the article!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u366	Using an abortion is a particularly heavy decision of meaning for women, sometimes very young, who find themselves in a particularly difficult psychological situation. That is why the time limit for reflection is indispensable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u367	That's not the point!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u368	We therefore believe that the current legal framework, which is sufficient and necessary, should be retained and that we should return to the spirit of Simone Veil's speech, which stressed in 1974 that abortion is the exception and must remain the exception, that it is always a tragedy and that it will always remain a tragedy.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u369	No, it's not a drama!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u370	Sub-amendments No 488 by Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard and No 532 by Mr Nicolas Meizonnet were defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u371	Unfavorable opinion on all these amendments. I would like to point out that the mechanism contained in this article does not replace the information currently available, but rather complements the information on the IVG. All your explanations are aimed at infantilizing the woman.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u372	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u373	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u374	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] [[Same movements]] Since 1974, France has evolved. France did not live frozen in a video of Zemmour naphthalinée, as if everything had stopped in the 1970s and nothing had happened since. There have been new authors since Claude Sautet and new actors since Belmondo – who were, moreover, very well. Things have happened in our country. Please, therefore, avoid referring to 1974 as if nothing had moved.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u375	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u376	I do not think that any of the Members who tabled and defended this amendment ever went to a family planning centre for an IVG. Mr Gosselin, you know that I have a great deal of respect for you, but I do not think that is your case. In any case, unless you've fallen badly, I don't think you're welcomed to an IVG center by saying, "Come, this way, Gate B: sit down, ma'am, we'll be right there. That's not how it works, Congressman!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u377	I know it, but let's put it in the law!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u378	The route is highly complex, and it is described by regulation. [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] Stop pretending that you want to improve women's rights, because that's not the goal you're pursuing. Say that you are not in favour of abortion as it is practiced today, let alone as it may be practiced tomorrow if the majority votes this text, but take political positions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u379	Take yours!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u380	When a woman enters a centre for the purpose of performing an IVG, she receives a medical consultation, she is accompanied, everything explained and told from A to Z. We don't throw ourselves at her! That's not how things happen.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u381	No one says that either!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u382	I want to reassure you...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u383	You fall into the caricature and the outburst!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u384	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] ...because, if you need to write in the law that, when a doctor sees a woman who wants to have an abortion, he is obliged to give her medical information, it is that you are far enough from the practices that really exist in our country. Unfavorable opinion, therefore. Finally, as you see, the Government sometimes takes a position on this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u385	There is hypocrisy on the part of the Government!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u386	Mr Bruno Millienne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u387	I am one of those fathers who lived indirectly with the IVG and I want to give you the testimony of a man. It is certainly difficult for a man to speak of abortion, he does not suffer it, but it happens that I have suffered it indirectly. What I see from this debate displeases me and afflicts me terribly, because everyone remains in their positions. In principle, Mr Minister, philosophically, I am not in favour of extending the deadline to fourteen weeks, but if this can prevent even a few women from taking more dangerous paths and routes, perhaps, if I do not vote for it, I will not oppose it. [[Michèle Peyron applauds]] [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] As for the information, if you had suffered what I had suffered, you would know that it is given to everyone and that it is not necessary to include it in the law. I shall vote against these amendments and abstain, in my personal capacity, in the public election.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u388	Mrs Catherine Pujol has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u389	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] Minister, you are mixing everything – the presidential campaign and the amendments under discussion. I would like to remind you that I am not Zemmour, but I am a health executive and have worked for years in maternity services, where I have been with everything you describe. I am sorry to hear today that Simone Veil's memory in this House is dirty.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u390	She doesn't want you to defend her memory!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u391	I put Article 1 to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u392	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 99 Number of votes cast 93 Absolute majority 47 For adoption 63 Against 30
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u393	Mrs Catherine Fabre has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u394	This article should make everyone agree, because it provides a solution for every woman to be cared for as soon as possible in her desire for abortion. Indeed, allowing midwives to perform abortion surgery for up to ten weeks will result in more practitioners being able to practice both methods of abortion, so that abortions can be carried out more quickly than today. Technically, midwives are qualified. They know the physiology of women and already practice certain endocavital gestures, to which they are trained: we must recognize these skills. Article 1e bis thus provides a real solution. So what was not my surprise when I realized that more than ten amendments to delete this article had been tabled. I would like to address their contradictions: from the very beginning, you are constantly declaring, with your hands on your heart, that you are opposed to extending the deadlines to fourteen weeks on the grounds that what needs to be done is not to extend the deadlines, but to ensure that women are taken care of earlier. You quote Bertrand de Rochambeau, explaining that instead of extending the legal deadline, all public hospitals must be able to offer abortion services up to 12 weeks. That is precisely what this article allows, which is a real solution to this problem. So, vote it – unless your arguments yesterday are just pretexts to hide what you do not guarantee because, in reality, women's right to dispose of their bodies and their lives bothers you, and you do not want to solve the difficulties that currently hinder the right to abortion. That is the opposite we are defending. We defend the right of women to dispose of their bodies and the course of their lives. We want women's access to abortion to be real and to have a real choice of method, as the law provides and as the facts all too often prevent, and to be accompanied, at this difficult time, with kindness and respect for their choice. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] That is why we are in favour of this law and this article 1e r bis, which will make it easier for the territory to be broken up and for women to have an abortion earlier, so that this fundamental right is no longer hindered.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u395	Mrs Delphine Bagarry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u396	The extension of midwives' skills to perform instrumental abortions is a fair provision, as it marks the recognition of their expertise, competence and all the work they do on a daily basis with women. It was recalled, moreover, that they already perform endouterine gestures, and this practice should therefore not present any difficulties in their formation. It will also go hand in hand with Annie Chapelier's bill which we adopted last week in this House and which deals with the training and extension of the skills of midwives in the full recognition of their medical profession. Let us not forget that this is a demand of the midwives themselves, who are competent and demand it. We need to trust them and now we have the opportunity to show them. Finally, this extension of competence will help to ensure equality of access for all women and throughout the country to such essential care, which is a symbol of freedom, including freedom to dispose of their bodies.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u397	Mr Patrick Hetzel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u398	This text, which aims to extend the period of access to the IVG by 15 days and to remove the specific consciousness clause, breaks even more with the Veil Act of 1975, even if, when asked about it, you tell us that there is no break, but only certain developments. Constitutionalist Bertrand Mathieu, professor at the Sorbonne, sees in this bill a new illustration of a profound change in the spirit of the Veil Act of 1975 – this is the key point – explaining that two principles come into conflict when we speak of voluntary termination of pregnancy: on the one hand, the protection of the embryo; on the other, the freedom of the woman. The first is ensured by the principle of respect for the human being from the beginning of his life, as provided for in the Civil Code. The second is guaranteed by article 2 of the Declaration of the Rights of Man and the Citizen, which prohibits the imposition of coercion on women which she considers impossible to assume. In this sense, the aim of the Veil Act was to achieve a balance: abortion was considered to be a situation which should be legalised in order to avoid the tragedies linked to the clandestine nature of certain abortions. Legally, it was a law of decriminalization. Now, here you are removing this balance, breaking with the constitutionally necessary coexistence of these two principles. In fact, you have a clear vision of this question.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u399	We come to the amendments. I have before me seven identical amendments, Nos 2, 19, 40, 70, 106, 177 and 323, to delete Article 1a. I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support Amendment No. 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u400	Even before addressing the substantive issues related to the authorization to perform GVI by surgery that you want to extend by this article, a question of method arises since section 70 of the Social Security Financing Act for 2021, which many of you have supported, has validated a three-year experiment. It therefore seems premature to vote for a general extension before evaluating this experiment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u401	Amendment No 19 by Mrs Marie-France Lorho is being defended. I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 40.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u402	Article 1e r bis is intended to allow midwives to perform abortions by surgery until the end of the tenth week of pregnancy. Since the training and qualification of a midwife is not that of a doctor, surgical IVG should only be performed by a doctor, both for obvious safety reasons and in view of the very nature of the mission of midwives. You have voted, under the Social Security Financing Act for 2021, an article that allows midwives to perform surgical IVGs on an experimental basis. But you do not wait until the end of the experiment to make this arrangement lasting. I would like to remind you that in 2016, one of the arguments that was raised during the review of the bill to modernize our health care system to allow midwives to practice IVG drugs was that doctors lacked a workforce to perform abortions, which is the same argument as today. One remembers the reason used at the time by Sophie Eyraud: midwives would be assured labour to overcome the difficulties of recruitment and the fact that obstetric gynaecologists are reluctant to make this gesture. I find this argument rather contemptuous for midwives who, I believe, are not meant to compensate for a shortage of labour. I would add that the midwives do not all have the same opinion on the issue, they do not all ask to be able to perform an abortion by surgery. Let us be honest, they are shared: some want to be able to go beyond the drug intervention – very well – but others do not.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u403	It's a possibility that's open to them!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u404	In any event, all those I have met in the territory I know, and not later than this noon in the House, have alerted me on two points: training and responsibility. Until these two points are clarified, it is not desirable to go further.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u405	Mrs Agnes Thill has the floor to support Amendment No. 70.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u406	The training, since the qualification of a midwife is not those of a doctor, it is totally inconceivable that she could perform an act of a surgical nature. This intervention is not annoyed, it is even quite different from the others and it can have consequences, including psychological ones, on the women who use it. The wording of Article 1e r bis, which provides for the limitation of midwifery intervention at the end of the tenth week of pregnancy, demonstrates, if necessary, that the extension of the time limit to 12 weeks makes IVG medically more complex given the greater size of the foetus. Therefore, great wisdom and caution must be exercised by not exceeding the existing framework. Such a provision should therefore be deleted, and that is the meaning of this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u407	I call Mr Gosselin to support Amendment No. 106.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u408	We really have principles with variable geometry. Indeed, when we want to make experimentation a central point, we are told that we will experiment and wait for the results. After all, experimenting to draw conclusions in order to know whether we are expanding or not is a good method. However, with regard to IVG, the approach always goes beyond understanding: we must always do it quickly – this is a bit of what is happening with this text that had already been retold – we have a President of the Republic who does not want it but who lets it happen and a minister who is very militant – it is his right. It is clear that the debate is not serene. Some time ago, it was decided that midwives could practice instrumental IVG. Today, we are told that it would be a bit vexing and unfortunate to wait until we know what these experiments will give us, and we are already moving on to the next stage. I call for consistency or respect, at least for what has been voted on here before, that is to say to wait for the conclusions of the experiment. They will probably not be known during this legislature, but perhaps we are not within a few months. Let us wait until the end of this experiment before generalizing, before moving to the next stage. But I can see that this request will not be heard. Once again, this is obviously regrettable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u409	I call Mr Patrick Hetzel to support Amendment No. 177.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u410	Article 1e r bis is intended to allow midwives to perform abortions by surgery until the end of the tenth week of pregnancy. After other speakers, I would like to stress that section 70 of the Social Security Financing Act for 2021 – an article that was voted on less than a year ago – has validated a three-year trial of the practice of instrumental abortion by midwives, in other words until 2024. Minister, what is your position on this issue, given that we had a debate here, less than a year ago, and that the Government considered that it was necessary to be able to experiment, that experiments were important, and that, of course, it would wait for the results of such an experiment before legislativeizing and extending more generally. Less than a year later, however, there was a 180-degree government shift. Once again, we legitimately ask ourselves the following question: how is it that on such a subject there is, in less than a year, a 180-degree shift from the argument developed both in the budget blue and by the government representatives here and in the Senate – I have checked what had been said in the Senate. We had been told that the question was absolutely not anomaly and that a number of precautions should be taken. Then why wouldn't these precautions be taken...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u411	They're taken!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u412	...and why would experimentation no longer make sense? We have a lot of difficulty understanding what you're doing. All of this is crazy incoherence.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u413	I call Mr Reiss to support Amendment No. 323.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u414	This amendment is intended to delete Article 1e ra because the experiment has not been completed. This article defines how midwives practice termination of pregnancy: surgically, before the end of the tenth week of pregnancy, or by medication before the end of the seventh week of pregnancy. It also defines the training required, the experience expected and the conditions of remuneration. Midwives seem to be very divided on this subject, especially since their responsibility is not clearly defined. It is felt that those in favour of these new provisions want to become aware of themselves by obliging the Government, in the same article, to submit to Parliament a report on the application of the new competence of midwives. The consequences of the provisions of this article seem to me to be very problematic, hence this deletion amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u415	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u416	Article 1a is very important and I do not understand your deletion amendments. You were defending earlier, and yesterday again, the fact that it was necessary to develop the supply, to have more doctors, to speed up the process, to practice less late abortions: this article responds precisely to the problem of the development of the supply, it allows to have more health professionals responsible for this, and it does not create an obligation since it provides by law that midwives could practice instrumental IVGs. I agree, the midwives I have met on many occasions are shared. This is not what this is about, but a new practice, new skills. Those who are volunteers will of course be trained. It is important to know that midwives already practice what is called endouterine gestures. Indeed, it is often midwives, not gynaecologists, who make medical interruptions of pregnancy. However, this competence is not really recognised. They are also called in case of miscarriage. Some therefore demand the competence of endouterine gestures. Article 1e ra responds perfectly to the problems you have rightly raised with regard to speeding up and improving the care of women. We are, I think, with my co-rapporteur, against these deletion amendments...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u417	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u418	... which have been tabled by several Members of the LR Group as well as by Members of other groups.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u419	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u420	At the request of parliamentarians, the Social Security Financing Act for 2021 provides for the possibility for midwives to perform instrumental abortions under certain conditions. As midwives in a medical profession, it is entirely legitimate that they may be empowered to develop practical skills other than those which are theirs in current decrees of competence. In fact, many of the gynaecologists who have been consulted consider that the fact that midwives can perform instrumental IVG would be a help, a support, adding that it is important that a gynaecologist-obstetrician can be on site to intervene in the event of a problem or accident. As part of the experiment, it is therefore planned that the abortion will take place in hospital, in a health facility and not in a health centre. That is what an important amendment will say to you earlier. Then, in 2020, you did not set a pregnancy duration limit for this act. To give this flexibility in the law, i.e. to remove the concept of ten weeks of pregnancy, seems to be a good practice. If you have to vote for this article, I will encourage you to delete the reference to ten weeks of pregnancy. An amendment has been tabled to that effect. [[Claims on several benches in the LR group]] Finally, do we have to go to experimentation or do we have to generalize? I am convinced that experimentation is a good way forward. The actors have been concerted, and the experiment will be deployed in some establishments. To tell you what is happening in a practical way: just over a year after the adoption of the PLFSS for 2021, the experiment did not start formally. It's a work that's slowly getting in place. It is not because you vote for generalization that midwives will be able to practice instrumental IVG tomorrow in all hospitals. The conditions for training and practical implementation, etc., will have to be determined in the same way. This will not fundamentally change the situation, and I think the rise in charge will be gradual. Mr Reiss, you are asking what the legal regime for midwives will be. It will be the same as today, unless the fault is detachable from the institution, i.e. it is intentional, in which case it will be criminal. The accident, the therapeutic hazard, is the responsibility of the service. That is why it is important that this act be carried out in a health facility. Midwives are therefore fully covered in the exercise of this mission, in the same way as they are covered in the performance of all their tasks. They have no personal responsibility. You know my opinion: wisdom on these identical amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u421	Mrs Perrine Goulet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u422	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] It was the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats who had defended this experiment in the framework of the PLFSS for 2021 for two reasons: first, as you know, we are sometimes blocked in the National Assembly to make this kind of proposal – experimentation allows us to circumvent the obstacles – and then we did not know what fate would be reserved for this bill. When you think that women need a breakthrough, you have to know, at some point, enter through any door. That was the purpose of this experiment. I am convinced that it is necessary to give the opportunity to practice abortions to midwives who, of course, will have the right, like doctors, to refuse to do so. Recall that they are already present at the time when women give birth in the context of medical interruptions of pregnancy (IMG), thus at a much more advanced stage of pregnancy. As a general rule, they have more competence in the accompaniment of pregnant women than doctors who, taking on multiple tasks, stay with patients for less time in these difficult times. I believe that everything that can speed up the implementation of women's rights is a good thing. That the experiment I proposed was replaced by a permanent device would not offend me, quite the contrary. It is true that the issuance of the decrees has not yet taken place, as the ministry has had to work on insurance, training and compensation issues, but it is expected to take place very soon. If we go faster thanks to this bill, so much the better for women! I do not understand why there are some who are opposed to giving midwives such an opportunity, whereas they are also opposed to extending the legal deadline to 14 weeks. Under this provision, women will resort to abortion at an earlier stage of pregnancy. Let us not forget that the main problem is women's access to professionals.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u423	Mr Philippe Gosselin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u424	I would like to stress what the various confessions we have just heard involve, particularly in terms of malfunctions. Our colleague says he wants to go home "by any door."
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u425	What you do all the time!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u426	All right, that's her point of view, she assumes it, and I hear that argument. The minister, on the other hand, makes a dramatic admission: the experiment which we voted for a year ago, in section 70 of the Social Security Financing Act for 2021, has not yet begun. What is the point of voting for provisions in Parliament if the executive then only does so at its head? A significant part of the implementing decrees is still not published! Thus, the Parliament votes and the Government has the right to vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u427	For once, he's not completely wrong!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u428	That is very respectful of the democratic functioning of our institutions! This shows the executive's view of the legislature. Mrs Goulet, you have pointed out that things are complicated because there are questions of training, remuneration and responsibility, but they will all remain and even be more acute if Article 1e bis is adopted. We can't sweep them with a back of our hands. It is for this reason that an experiment could have been interesting. Regardless of the views on GVI, we can agree that this intellectual construction, this methodology, at least, made it clearer. However, this experiment did not even begin, on the basis of the minister's admission, that it was left out. The questions remain, but whatever the door, whatever the window, you go there and you continue to chart your way.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u429	Yes, for women's rights!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u430	Well, this state of mind, I do not find it very reassuring or very satisfying from an intellectual point of view, I assure you.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u431	Mrs Delphine Bagarry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u432	I think we have the wrong debate. The problem is not the experimentation or extension of the competence of midwives, but the delegation of competences and mutual trust of health professionals. Who complains today that midwives can do ultrasounds?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u433	It's not a medical act!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u434	They are not radiologists, they have not been trained in their initial curriculum to do such examinations, yet those who wished to do so were able to form themselves later to carry out such examinations. The same applies to IVGs. I consider that they can form themselves to carry out these acts which doctors, who are in any case difficult to delegate, consider to be part of their pre-square. I'll give you a little anecdote. I am an emergency doctor and I was able to see what happened with pre-hospital thrombolysis: this treatment of the infarction was previously reserved for cardiologists and then other doctors were allowed to administer it before the patient arrived at the hospital. This development has been difficult, but the result is that we have saved lives. [[Anne-Laure Cattelot applauds]] We must always put ourselves in the place of users. We are here to defend their rights and not to preserve the square meadows of doctors! I am convinced that midwives, as a medical profession, will be able to practice this act, after training, if they so wish.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u435	I have before me the same amendments, Nos 56, 71 and 122, which are the subject of a sub-amendment No 500. I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support Amendment No. 56.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u436	In view of the impact of this surgery, the complications it may cause and the risks it may pose to women, it is necessary to ensure the presence of a doctor, pending the results of the three-year experiment, the principle of which was enshrined in the previous law on the financing of social security.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u437	Identical Amendments Nos 71 by Mrs Agnes Thill and 122 by Mr Xavier Breton are being defended. I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 500.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u438	This is a specific sub-amendment. I say again, I am not a doctor and I listen with great interest to those of our colleagues who belong to the medical or paramedical corps. However, I am trying to work on my files and have consulted various professional opinions. I would like to quote the position of the Syndicat national des gynecologists et obstetriciens de France (SYNGOF) which opposes the fact that midwives can practice abortions by putting forward this argument, which it seems to me cannot be swept away with a reverse hand: "So it is easy and apparently generous to decree surgical competence to midwives, whereas the conditions for acquiring this competence are not and will not be fulfilled for a long time. It is mainly about deceit towards midwives and false hopes for women without any impact on access to abortion. " The National Academy of Medicine also opposes this – I refer you to the opinion of its ethics committee of 12 January 2021. I therefore wonder: why are they so opposed to this extension of competence? In these circumstances, it seems interesting to me to start by implementing the experiment that you voted for just a year ago. We will then see if all the answers to the questions of status, responsibility, training have been provided and whether midwives can carry out these acts under satisfactory conditions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u439	Mrs Marie-France Lorho has the floor in support of Amendment No 15.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u440	The profession of midwife as defined by the WHO – World Health Organization – includes supervision, care and advice to pregnant women at work and in postpartum periods, assistance in childbirth under their responsibility, care for newborns and infants. Historically, abortion is not the midwife's job. If he has become a part of it with the IVG drugs, he does not constitute the heart of it. Let's think twice before adding a new prerogative to an outstanding professional body, which lacks recognition and financial means.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u441	I have two identical amendments before me, Nos 170 and 307. I call Mr Patrick Hetzel to support Amendment No. 170.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u442	We see at work a very unilateral view of things. To recognize midwives as having surgical competence in IVG is to "put the plough before the ox." You'll forgive me for that trivial expression that SYNGOF uses in quotation marks.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u443	The image is elegant in such a debate!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u444	A fundamental question must in fact be dealt with in advance, that of the surgical training of midwives: during the initial course for those who are still students, in post-university for those who are already installed. When we look closely, we see that the profession itself has raised doubts about training and also about responsibility. He is being forced to do something without having sufficiently in-depth discussions with her on this matter. You regularly have the word "concertion" in your mouth, but between what you say and what you do, there is an abyssal gap. In my constituency, the midwives I interviewed told me that they were still far from the change that was being imposed on them without a real opportunity to express themselves. You will tell me that the minister was able to have an exchange with the profession. However, I believe that these issues deserve much more systematic consideration before we legislate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u445	Amendment No 307 by Mr Frédéric Reiss is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u446	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u447	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u448	Wisdom.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u449	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 255 and 426, which are the subject of sub-amendments Nos 533, 496, 495 and 507. I call Mr Patrick Hetzel to support Amendment No. 255.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u450	In the legislative process, any provision contained in a piece of legislation is considered to be final. In fact, it is well known that some things need to be corrected at some point, and that is very happy. The midwives themselves tell us that they are not so demanding of this extension of competence. It therefore seems to me useful to provide that such interventions can only be carried out by them if no doctor can carry them out in a given territory. It must be taken into account that the generalisation approach runs counter to the demands of professionals.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u451	I call Mr Reiss to support Amendment No. 426.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u452	Midwives' intervention in the practice of abortion is aimed at responding to a shortage of doctors in certain areas. They do not need to replace a doctor if he or she is present and can practice IVG at his or her place of exercise.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u453	I call Mr Nicolas Meizonnet to support sub-amendment No. 533.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u454	You're telling us that for lack of doctors, you're going to expand the medical supply by allowing midwives to perform surgical IVGs. In this sub-amendment, we propose as a back-up solution that they can only intervene on the condition that no doctor is able to practice IVG at his place of exercise. It seems to me good to recall two things. First, surgical abortion is a technical gesture whose consequences can be heavy, which refers to the question of training and qualification of midwives. Second, the very essence of their profession is to give life...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u455	No! It's to accompany women!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u456	...and not the other way around. In these circumstances, some of them do not want to practice GVI, and of course they must be taken into account.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u457	Some doctors don't want it either!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u458	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support sub-amendments Nos. 496 and 495, which can be presented in a consolidated format.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u459	These are precision sub-amendments. The extension of the practice of abortion to midwives tends, as you have pointed out, to compensate for the shortage of doctors and gynaecologists in certain areas; That is your goal. When doctors and gynaecologists are available, however, it is not necessary to substitute midwives for them, in particular for reasons relating to their status and hence to their responsibility, which the Minister recalled is naturally linked to the establishment in which they operate. However, it is difficult to allow them to perform GVI surgery. Before entrusting them with this new competence, it is indeed necessary to clarify their status and to remove the existing confusion, in order to ensure professionals as well as women a quality care, in complete safety. The profession – you recognize it yourself and it is not a mystery – is not unanimous, so much so, about this new provision. Midwives are fully aware of the very heavy responsibility that they will now have if we go in that direction. However, the legislator cannot rule without taking their views into account.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u460	Subamendment No 507 by Mrs Nathalie Bassire is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u461	I can't let it be said that midwives would only be used to compensate for a shortage of doctors. No, a midwife has a full profession and skills. Its role is not limited to childbirth; It accompanies women throughout their journeys, regardless of whether they are prevention, contraception, abortion, childbirth, sexuality or all other aspects of their health. By Article 1e r bis, we specifically want midwives, who have a full medical profession and who accompany women at all stages of their lives, to be able to practice instrumental IVG. We are in favour of a fairly rapid generalization because it is no longer possible to wait: every year several thousand women leave abroad to abort. Again, midwives do not just respond to a deficiency; their role is essential. Opinion against the amendments and sub-amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u462	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u463	Let us distinguish between two subjects: that of the immediacy of access to care and that, more general, of the evolution of trades and skills. I often say this: France has not, in my opinion, taken the ramp of launching advanced practices and interprofessional cooperation – as evidenced by the categorical demands that emerge among midwives, block nurses, state-qualified anesthetist nurses (IADE), nurses in advanced practice (IPA), physiotherapists who want direct access, speech therapists, orthoptists, and so on. In short, there is a strong appetite for health professions – the training of which, moreover, is optimal – to carry out acts that are still prohibited to them. From then on, two things one: to judge this impossible because it is up to the doctor to do everything or, in a spirit of openness, to consider that others can also intervene if they undergo ad hoc training and if all guarantees of continuity and security of care are given. Why not, if it allows professionals to thrive and evolve in their careers? Why would health professions be frozen, without prospects of evolution? As a doctor, I defend this idea; As a minister, I fight her. That is why we are developing advanced practices and interprofessional cooperation, and we are allowing professionals to carry out certain acts that they could not do yesterday – and that is so much better. Admittedly, we are under pressure from a medical demographic which requires us to take steps to ensure that other actors supplement doctors, who struggle to respond to all requests; Let's not deny it. But in this case, the background meets the form: it is very well so. Let us allow trained midwives, if they wish, to practice instrumental IVG. They practise a medical profession; give them this opportunity – on the understanding that they will of course have no obligation to carry out this act. Let's not talk in the name of the profession, Mrs. Ménard. Otherwise, we could compare the number of health care professionals that you and I have met for the past two years in the performance of our respective duties. I assure you that this measure corresponds to the legitimate aspiration of much of the profession. That parliamentarians decide to allow this practice in good conditions is good news.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u464	Mr Bastien Lachaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u465	Beyond the obvious contempt for the exemplary work of midwives that manifests itself on the benches of the Republicans and others group,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u466	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u467	... let's be a little serious. Take your positions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u468	We take full responsibility!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u469	Since the beginning of the review of this text, all you do is reduce access to the IVG.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u470	Listen to what you're told!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u471	You do this by this battle of numerous amendments – we know the method. All these amendments are aimed only at limiting women's access to abortion. What you are doing in the Chamber, your friends of the Maniif for all do in the street by organizing street prayers in front of the centres of IVG.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u472	Street prayers?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u473	It is these practices that must be disposed of if all women are to be able to access the GVI, including within the 10-week period.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u474	Mr Patrick Hetzel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u475	I can't let it be said that we would have the slightest respect for the midwifery profession...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u476	Everything says, you don't have any respect for midwives!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u477	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard and Marie-France Lorho also applaud]] Pardon me, Mr Lachaud, but you do not have a monopoly on this respect and, on behalf of the whole of the Group of the European People's Party, I say that we fully respect the profession of midwife! The mere fact that you question this respect is a sign of contempt for the parliamentary debate – but that is your business, Mr Lachaud. I had the opportunity to talk to midwives in my constituency. What did they tell me? That the law of 2016 already allows them to perform medication abortions, but that they will now be allowed to perform a surgical act. However, the instrumental IVGs are not of the same nature; They themselves claim that this gesture is far from trivial. I insist: they alert us on this point and question the safety that they will be able to guarantee to their own patients, as the framework of their intervention has changed in nature. Hence my first question, Minister: what guarantees will the professionals who do this type of act have?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u478	I've already answered three times, Mr. Hetzel!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u479	On the other hand, the debate we have is very interesting because the bill aims to extend the time limit for the abortion to 14 weeks while keeping it to 10 weeks for midwives: this is proof that it is an act of a different nature! The rapporteurs claim that this change is not fundamental, but the text proves precisely the opposite!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u480	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u481	I leave Mr. Lachaud to his elucubrations. What a disrespect for the debate on such an important subject, and for the midwives who do the most beautiful job in the world! It was you, Mrs Battistel, who put forward the argument – the rapporteurs are the first to have used it – that midwives are also there to give women easier access to abortion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u482	"Also," yes, but not only!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u483	In 2016, during the debate on the bill to modernize the health system, midwives had rightly put forward the argument, about the surgical abortion, that doctors lacked labour to perform abortions. I didn't say that; I wasn't elected at the time. I have already quoted Sophie Eyraud, co-chair of the National Association of Pregnancy and Contraceptive Discontinuation Centres: midwives would, in her view, be assured of the workforce to overcome the difficulties of recruitment and the fact that gynaecologists-obstetricians are reluctant to make this gesture. Again, it is not I who say it, nor my colleagues in the Republican Group; These arguments were presented during the debates on the 2016 law and you will be able to find them. Stop sending back arguments that you use when it suits you but you don't want to hear when we address them to you!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u484	I have before me three identical amendments, Nos 161, 218 and 292, which are the subject of sub-amendments. I call Mr Patrick Hetzel to support Amendment No. 161.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u485	The purpose of this clarification amendment is to replace the term "place of exercise" with the term "place of exercise" to ensure that midwives do the prescribed acts in a health facility.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u486	Amendments Nos 218 by Mrs Anne-Laure Blin and 292 by Mr Frédéric Reiss are defended. I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support sub-amendments Nos. 509 and 489, which can be put together.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u487	These sub-amendments, in turn, are intended to indicate that the establishments in question are public or private.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u488	Subamendment No 502 by Mrs Nathalie Bassire is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u489	I call for the withdrawal of these amendments and sub-amendments in favour of Amendment No 432 which will be presented in a moment by the Republic on the move.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u490	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u491	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u492	Mr Patrick Hetzel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u493	I understand the rapporteur's wish that we withdraw our amendment in order to adopt a majority amendment, but I would point out that its content is identical to ours. For a serene debate, congratulations! Your dogmatism has no limit.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u494	If the amendment were the same, it would have been discussed at the same time as yours. You are a parliamentarian, you should know the rules governing the organisation of the debate!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u495	Mrs Cécile Muschotti has the floor to support Amendment No. 432 as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u496	Indeed, this amendment would have been defended at the same time as the previous ones if they had been perfectly identical.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u497	They say the same thing!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u498	For reasons also related to the safety of care and professional practices, it is intended to clarify that midwives will only be able to perform surgical abortions in a health facility.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u499	I call Mr M'jid El Guerrab to support Amendment No. 457.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u500	It aims to eliminate the differentiation between physicians' and midwives' skills with respect to aspirational surgical abortion. It should be noted that the procedure and risks are the same, regardless of whether the abortion is performed at week 10 or week 14. Also, midwives are quite competent, after training, to perform an IVG until the end of the fourteenth week of pregnancy, just like their fellow doctors. It is therefore in no way justified to limit their exercise of the IVG to the tenth week. Midwives expect their skills and work to be fully recognized; This amendment is in line with that.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u501	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u502	This amendment tabled on the initiative of Annie Chapelier is in line with a proposal from my report at first reading, which was not to limit to the tenth week of pregnancy the possibility for midwives to perform a surgical abortion. Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u503	Ladies and gentlemen, before I put Amendment No 457 to the vote, I would like to inform you that its adoption would bring down the following two sets of identical amendments and that we would continue with Amendment No 470.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u504	I have before me four amendments, Nos 470, 169, 230 and 306, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 169, 230 and 306 are identical and are the subject of four sub-amendments. I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support Amendment No. 470.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u505	The National Council of the Order of Midwives recognizes that "the ability to perform an instrumental IVG cannot be open to all midwives." In order for them to fully exercise this competence, it is therefore important that they receive additional training to enable them to carry out all the acts necessary for an instrumental abortion, but also to justify a minimum of experience.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u506	I call Mr Patrick Hetzel to support Amendment No. 169.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u507	The National Council of the Order of Midwives recognizes that "the ability to perform an instrumental IVG cannot be open to all midwives." In order for them to fully exercise this competence, it is therefore important that they receive additional training to enable them to carry out all the acts necessary for an instrumental abortion, but also that they justify a minimum of specific experiences in this field. A few moments ago, Minister, you made a plea for advanced practice. Shouldn't it be considered that the possibility of midwives performing surgical abortions would be an advanced practice? This would make it possible to secure the act, both for professionals and for patients. So I'll take your word, minister. How do you react to this proposal?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u508	Identical amendments Nos 230 by Mrs Anne-Laure Blin and 306 by Mr Frédéric Reiss are being defended. I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support sub-amendments Nos. 520, 493, 516 and 497, which can be put together.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u509	It must be reiterated that the full orthogenic competence of midwives requires prior further training combined with sufficient practice. The ability to perform an instrumental IVG cannot be opened overnight to all midwives. In fact, they are well aware of this themselves. Some refuse to carry out such acts for moral or ideological reasons but others because they do not think they have the capacity to do so. I therefore believe that further training and practice, surrounded by competent staff, are necessary in advance. When they are acquired, perhaps the question of the extension of competences may be raised.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u510	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u511	I am somewhat embarrassed by these amendments because what they propose to add is already specified in the fourth paragraph of Article 1a. I agree with you, ladies and gentlemen, that we must secure things. We will not force midwives to immediately implement this new practice without training. It is thus stated that a decree will specify "the modalities of implementation relating to the required training and the expected experiences [...]". I therefore express an opinion which is unfavourable to all the amendments and sub-amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u512	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u513	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u514	Mr Patrick Hetzel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u515	What we are asking for is not that a decree specify these modalities, but that it is paragraph 2 which states that "in order to be able to exercise this competence fully, the midwife may at the same time undergo additional training enabling her to perform all the acts necessary for an instrumental abortion, but also to have specific minimum experiences". On the other hand, Minister, you did not answer my question about advanced practice. In fact, you're running away from the debate: you could answer the questions we ask you and those of professionals – in this case midwives – but you don't. There are many misconceptions behind all of this because, as soon as we ask specific questions on matters within your ministerial jurisdiction, in this case advanced practices, there is no one on the bench to answer. That's very curious!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u516	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u517	I've been silent for a while, but I would still like to intervene. You consider that you do not despise the profession of midwives, ladies and gentlemen, but you do not know her. You want to mention their experience in a piece of legislation, but how will you judge their abilities? Do you know that during their years of study, they carry out compulsory internships in order to discover many services and various gestures? Perhaps, at the end of their studies, they may already have mastered the basic gestures that will enable them to take the additional training and then carry out instrumental IVGs. When you say you love a profession, you have to know it, and know the training that leads to it. Furthermore, if paragraph 4 specifies that training will be proposed by decree, it is for discussion with the Order of Midwives. Finally, midwives are not just there to give life, as we have often heard before. Fortunately, midwives are present in oncology services to accompany patients with gynaecological cancers. Let us not mislead the subject: they have a magnificent profession and those who do not wish to practice instrumental IVG will not follow the training and will not do this, simply.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u518	I have before me a series of amendments, Nos 168, 304, 167, 226, 302, 166, 300, 164, 296, 469, 165 and 298 which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 168 and 304 are identical. This is also the case with Amendments Nos 167, 226 and 302, which are the subject of three sub-amendments. Amendments Nos 166 and 300 are also identical, as are Amendments Nos 164, 296 and 469, which are the subject of three sub-amendments, as well as Amendments Nos 165 and 298. I call Mr Patrick Hetzel to support Amendment No. 168.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u519	Don't worry, Mrs Fiat, we are a number of people who have dealt with the issue of midwifery training, but this is not the subject of tonight's debate. What is at stake, however, is skills. You cannot deny what the people I met told me: they do not have the necessary skills and they need to acquire them. They fear that the legislator will force them to do acts they have never done. The question of training is therefore real, so we would like a number of points to be specified directly in the legislation and not simply by decree. [[Ms Caroline Fiat exclaimed]] On the other hand, Mrs Fiat, I usually find you much more appropriate to clarify things in the law than to let the government do it! I am quite surprised that your argument is sometimes with variable geometry, depending on your militant orientations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u520	Amendment No 304 by Mr Frédéric Reiss is being defended. Identical amendments No 167 by Mr Patrick Hetzel, 226 by Mrs Anne-Laure Blin and 302 by Mr Frédéric Reiss are being defended. Sub-amendments No 505 by Mrs Nathalie Bassire, as well as Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard's 514 and 492 are being defended. I call Mr Patrick Hetzel to support Amendment No. 166.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u521	It aims to ensure that the surgical acts that the legislator would have the will to entrust to midwives come within a framework of advanced practice within the profession. Again, would the Government be in favour or opposed, Minister? We have a right to know, right?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u522	Mr Frédéric Reiss, in support of Amendment No. 300, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u523	We believe that midwives must be able to justify a sufficient and regular practice, in a health facility, of voluntary interruptions of drug pregnancy – which they are already doing today – before they can go further.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u524	I call Mr Patrick Hetzel to support Amendment No. 164.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u525	The question that we have already raised on several occasions is raised by the professionals themselves, it is not a whim of the Republicans group! It emerged from the exchanges we had with a number of them. Can you tell us, minister, what you're using to ignore the clarifications we want to make to the bill?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u526	Amendment No 296 by Mr Frédéric Reiss is being defended. I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support Amendment No. 469.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u527	I wonder whether this amendment could not be a continuation of Amendment No 432 as corrected, which we have just adopted, and whose summary statement states: "For reasons of safety of care and professional practices, it seems appropriate to reserve the practice of instrumental abortions by midwives to a hospital environment. We agree, and the rapporteur said that it will be necessary to clarify the support and training that midwives will receive in order to ensure that things go as well as possible. This point can bring us together. It therefore seems to me important to clarify that the practice of instrumental abortions is reserved for midwives who can justify sufficient practical training. Both practice and training are important; as much as make sure of their existence. That is what this precise amendment proposes.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u528	Sub-amendments No 503 by Mrs Nathalie Bassire, then 491 and 511 by Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard, are being defended. Identical Amendments Nos 165 by Mr Patrick Hetzel and 298 by Mr Frédéric Reiss are being defended. What is the opinion of the committee on all these amendments and sub-amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u529	He's unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u530	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u531	Disadvantaged too.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u532	Mr Patrick Hetzel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u533	I come back to this very simple question: would it not be appropriate for this to be done within the framework of advanced practice if midwives were to carry out abortion surgery? It has been introduced in other professions, such as the nursing profession. You seem to be looking at the ceiling of the House, Minister. Could you simply give the Government's position on this simple question: does it seem relevant to you to introduce a system of advanced practice for the profession of midwives?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u534	I'll answer Mr. Hetzel, or we'll spend the night.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u535	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u536	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group and on some benches of the LaREM group]] The law – although recent, but no one is supposed to ignore it – provides that advanced practice concerns paramedical professions. However, the midwifery profession is a medical profession, which therefore does not require advanced practice. That's why I wasn't answering you, Mr. Hetzel, not to be derogatory. We even mentioned this law last Monday, in the context of the discussion of the bill on the financing of social security.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u537	I have before me seven identical amendments, Nos 16, 39, 48, 171, 231, 424 and 435. Amendment No 16 by Mrs Marie-France Lorho is being defended. I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 39.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u538	It is intended to delete paragraph 3. The Act provides for an extension of the time limit for access to home-based drug abortion to seven weeks of pregnancy, including the provisions of the Order of April 14, 2020. This had been taken, you reminded the minister, on an exceptional and derogatory basis during the health crisis related to coronavirus. The Public Health Code provides that, beyond five weeks, the IVG drug meets a very specific protocol, in a hospital setting, to ensure the health safety of women who use it. Indeed, the late onset of GVI, the higher the risk of haemorrhage. It should also be borne in mind that the analgesics recommended in the context of these IVGs are not anodizing: they are paracetamol associated with opium or codeine. For the safety of women, it seems to me that it is appropriate to keep the time limit for access to the IVG drug at home to five weeks, and not to extend that time limit as you propose in the proposed legislation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u539	I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support Amendment No. 48.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u540	Amendment 432 rectified, which came from the majority and was adopted, provides that midwives should perform surgical abortion only in a health facility. This confirms the fact that paragraph 3 of Article 1e r bis may give rise to many questions. The Public Health Code provides that, beyond five weeks, the IVG drug requires a very specific protocol, in a hospital setting; the government's guide on the issue of abortion calls for vigilance due to the increased risk of bleeding resulting from later intervention. A fact sheet dedicated by the High Health Authority (HAS) to the drug abortion practiced outside the hospital, in the context of the covid -19 epidemic, at the eighth or ninth week of amenorrhea states: "Patients are informed of the occurrence of significant pains that are anticipated to be taken care of, and of the recommendation not to remain alone at home. Being alone at home in such cases can happen: there is something to think about. For the safety of women, is it appropriate to retain sub-paragraph 3?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u541	I call Mr Patrick Hetzel to support Amendment No. 171.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u542	Minister, you pretend you don't understand our question. While the legal definition of advanced practices does apply to non-medical professions, there is nothing to prevent the development of a similar system for midwives, for example. Earlier, you pleaded for innovation: you are suddenly much less innovative!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u543	It's crazy, though!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u544	On the other hand, to return to the article, one of the recommendations of the HAS associated with the measures brought about by the health crisis relates to the risks involved in an IVG at home beyond five weeks of pregnancy, which in fact justify that, so far, these five weeks have constituted the period of ordinary law. We would therefore like to understand what might legitimize the extension of this deadline, to hear the views of the Government on this issue, and not just "favourable" or "favourable".
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u545	Mrs Anne-Laure Blin has the floor to support Amendment No. 231.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u546	The text is intended to incorporate into the legislation the additional period set by ministerial decree due to exceptional circumstances related to the health crisis. However, drug GVIs are not without consequences, which explains why the Public Health Code states that, beyond five weeks, they must be performed in hospital. As my colleagues have said, the safety of women is at stake. Paragraph 3 of that article should therefore be deleted.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u547	I call Mr Reiss to support Amendment No. 424.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u548	In order to supplement the arguments of my colleagues, I would add that we have adopted in Article 1e the principle of the possibility of an abortion until the end of the fourteenth week of pregnancy; This time, it is the legal time limit for home-based drug abortion that would be extended by two weeks, whereas this extension was an exception due to the health crisis and wisdom requires, in normal time, to abide by the law in force.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u549	Amendment No 435 by Mrs Nathalie Serre is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u550	[[Mrs Anne-Laure Blin protested]] Delete this subparagraph would eliminate the possibility, successfully tested during the health crisis, of practising up to seven weeks of pregnancy of IVG drugs outside the hospital. In 2020, I co-edited with Cécile Muschotti an information report on access to IVG. This work allowed us to meet many actors across the territory: all were in favour of this experiment. The minister will certainly complete my remarks, but this, I repeat, has proved satisfactory, without any particular problem. In order to retain this possibility, I am expressing an opinion which is unfavourable to the amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u551	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u552	Same opinion. During the crisis of the covid -19, it was necessary to allow women...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u553	In exceptional circumstances!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u554	... to carry out an IVG at home, including through teleconsultation. A decision taken in the context of the state of health emergency has therefore provided for this; It went very well, in such a way that we extended it when this state of emergency was extended,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u555	Should we make the sanitary pass final?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u556	...and then as part of the derogations related to its exit. As everything was going on wonderfully, I grabbed the HAS. You don't mind, Mrs. Blin, but you do!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u557	You're totally incoherent!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u558	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] For your part, no doubt you are more qualified than the HAS, which told us that not only can we sustain this possibility, but that it would be a good thing. A decree in the Council of State will therefore be issued to this effect before the summer; In the meantime, the Order continues to apply. I confirm that abortion can be performed at home up to seven weeks of pregnancy, including through teleconsultation, which is an additional step forward, also endorsed by the health and scientific authorities – even if it does not go in your direction!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u559	On Article 1e r bis, a request for a public vote is submitted to me by the working Republic and Socialist and related groups. On Amendment No 438, I have a request from the Socialist and Related Group for a public vote. Votes are announced in the National Assembly. Amendment No 17 by Mrs Marie-France Lorho is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u560	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 438.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u561	It is intended to reformulate the fourth paragraph of Article 1e ra in order to provide for the arrangements for extending the competence of midwives to abortions by surgical means, in particular with regard to training, experience and remuneration. That would meet the expectations you expressed earlier: I hope you will therefore adopt this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u562	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u563	Favourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u564	I put to the vote Amendment No 438.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u565	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 56 Number of votes cast 54 Absolute majority 28 For adoption 41 Against 13
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u566	Amendment No 18 by Mrs Marie-France Lorho is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u567	I have before me three identical amendments, Nos 176, 237 and 321. I call Mr Patrick Hetzel to support Amendment No. 176.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u568	Since the practice of instrumental abortion by midwives in health facilities is the subject of an ongoing experiment, set out in the Social Security Financing Act for 2021 and intended to last three years, it would be better if the report provided for in paragraph 5 of the article were submitted even at the mid-point of the article, i.e. within 18 months and not one year from the promulgation of the text. Mrs Battistel, you referred to the positive opinion of the HAS; This does not mean that the interest of experiments lies in a sufficient setback, which will not be the case in this case.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u569	Identical Amendments Nos 237 by Mrs Anne-Laure Blin and 321 by Mr Frédéric Reiss are being defended. What is the opinion of the committee on these identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u570	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u571	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u572	Wisdom.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u573	Amendment No 439 corrected by Mrs Battistel is editorial.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u574	I put to the vote Rule 1e r bis, as amended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u575	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 56 Number of votes cast 56 Absolute majority 29 For adoption 42 Against 14
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u576	Mrs Nathalie Bassire has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u577	Consideration of this bill gives an impression of haste.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u578	It's been studied four times, though!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u579	We have to do it quickly, delete it all,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u580	We don't delete!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u581	...accelerate everything. However, we know that speed is often detrimental to reflection on such important matters. In a single text, I repeat, it is a matter of deleting everything that exists, everything that our predecessors have developed, in the name of an alleged freedom of choice. Thus, the reflection period would infantilize women! Madam rapporteur, you will not deny the purely subjective nature of this argument. Taking time to think is not a sign of weakness or immaturity! Should I remind you that after a purchase, we have a withdrawal period? A woman weakened by an unwanted pregnancy has the right to doubt and, indeed, to be free of her choice! You yourself mentioned the risk of psychological, social and family pressures; isn't your eagerness, your desire to hasten the decision, the desire to exercise one? The examination of Article 1b must allow us to think carefully, all together, about the usefulness of this period of reflection, which in no case affects the woman's freedom to have an abortion if she so wishes.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u582	I have before me nine identical amendments, Nos 3, 20, 30, 41, 123, 178, 240, 326 and 437, to delete Article 1b. I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support Amendment No. 3.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u583	The question of time limits for reflection had already arisen in our discussions on the revision of bioethics laws. Two interpretations are possible: either the existence of this deadline is a means of exerting pressure to discourage women from aborting, or the removal of the deadline will put pressure on them to abort. However, whatever their choice, it will affect their entire lives: that is why the question of personal discernment deserves reflection. The act itself is not trivial and results from a real choice. The woman has this freedom to choose, taking the time – and this time is sometimes necessary. What are forty-eight hours compared to fourteen weeks, since you want to extend the legal time limit for recourse to abortion by two weeks? This is a relatively short time in view of the act itself, which will potentially have consequences for a life if the woman eventually renounces her pregnancy. In view of the impact of the decision, it is desirable to maintain this final moment of reflection after the previous psychosocial interview, which allows it itself to deepen this reflection; If the act took place immediately after the interview, the woman would not have time to think about it and operate her choice freely.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u584	Mrs Marie-France Lorho has the floor to support Amendment No. 20.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u585	As the violence against women by their spouses is increasingly being discussed, I am astonished at the willingness of the rapporteurs to remove this already very short period of reflection. It may allow a woman, induced to abort under the pressure of her spouse, to find a remedy in response to this request. By wanting to go further in the extension of abortion at all costs, you do not envisage this type of situation. This is also the general orientation of your text, which sanctifies the right to abortion, taken as an absolute, forgetting the very meaning of this gesture. As constitutionalist Bertrand Mathieu, professor of law, pointed out: "from an exception [to abortion in 1975], we have moved to a freedom, from freedom to a right. From the exception to a form of banality. There is a considerable slippage there. It's even a breakup. » We repeat: abortion is not an annoyance. However, removing any period of time for reflection is tantamount to making it an annoyance, and I object to it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u586	I call Mr Fabien Di Filippo to support Amendment No. 30.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u587	Freedom of choice is real only when this choice is enlightened. In 2016, the reflection period has already increased from seven days to two days; Two days is the time to exchange with relatives, to consider a new medical opinion, to assimilate the arguments and possibilities set out by the doctor, or to spend, as our colleague Thibault Bazin pointed out, a psychosocial interview. I could draw up a list of the incompressible time-limits for reflection in the commercial field. But today we are talking about a much more serious choice, which has implications for the lives of patients and for other more important lives. However, you would like to remove this period of reflection. I don't think that's progress.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u588	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 41.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u589	As our colleague Di Filippo has just pointed out, the law of 26 January 2016 on the modernization of our health system has removed the seven-day reflection period between the first consultation for an abortion and the second, during which the woman must confirm her request in writing. However, under article L. 2212-4 of the Public Health Code, the law provides that an additional interview must be systematically proposed, "in the course of which assistance or advice appropriate to the situation of the person concerned is provided to him or her. This interview is also made mandatory for underage women. A two-day period of reflection was maintained for all women attending this pre-interview, before being able to confirm in writing their request for abortion. To remove this time limit, which is already very short, while the act of voluntary termination of pregnancy is not annoyed, that it seals the fate of a human existence and can be traumatic, amounts to a failure to respect women, especially minors. Finally, at the risk of getting you yelled – but our colleague Nathalie Bassire has already mentioned it – any purchase over the Internet, by telephone or by post, is subject to a withdrawal period. The law also imposes a period of two weeks of reflection before resorting to cosmetic surgery. Explain to me why it would not be possible to have two days of reflection as part of an IVG. I do not understand the argument that you systematically oppose us, that granting a period of reflection to a woman who wishes to abort would be infantilizing. It's the opposite, on the contrary.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u590	Women can do what they want!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u591	I am therefore absolutely against the deletion of this deadline.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u592	The woman will always have the opportunity to take the time to reflect.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u593	Such an article, which aims to remove the time limit for reflection before resorting to an act as serious as the one we are talking about, is not appropriate. This is a sensitive, ethical and life-concept issue.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u594	I call Mr Gosselin to support Amendment No. 123.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u595	The Veil law provided for a time of reflection, obviously important, ensuring a form of balance: the gravity of the situation was emphasized. We are gradually moving away from the letter and spirit of the law, while practicing an IVG is a major decision. Without making a judgement on the women who use it, it can be admitted that 48 hours of reflection are not superfetal. Our colleague said: acts such as the use of cosmetic surgery lead to a much longer period of reflection – two weeks. Whatever our views on abortion, this time not only of serenity but also of hindsight and introspection seems to us indispensable. I do not underestimate the urgency of certain situations, but, by pity, let us stop putting women under pressure, let us stop wanting to reduce again and again this time which is never enough and to ensure that decision-making takes place immediately, under pressure, I repeat. It was neither to show respect for women nor to ensure their safety in such situations, they were tragic.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u596	I call Mr Patrick Hetzel to support Amendment No. 178.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u597	Once it is not customary, I will read a speech by Mrs Marisol Touraine – of which you agree that she did not belong to the Group of the Republicans – in the Committee on Social Affairs on this subject: "The removal of the time limit for reflection is not part of the measures that I have proposed, and I am not sure that it will facilitate access to the law [to the IVG]. Some particular situations, I am aware, may require an acceleration of the procedure; Thus, when pregnancy is at an advanced stage, the delay is already shortened. Consideration may also be given to shortening the time frame for drug-based abortions authorized during the first five weeks of pregnancy. In most cases, however, the time frame for reflection is useful. Should he stay set for seven days? The question can be asked; But, in any event, I am against its deletion, because the decision at stake, if it is an absolute right, is obviously anything but banal. It is a left-wing woman, who has served as Minister of Social Affairs and Health, who says so, and that is why I would like to repeat this quote.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u598	So what? We don't have to agree with her!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u599	You will no doubt object to me that this statement is dated; Indeed, it dates back a few years. But I would like to ask you about this, since Mrs Touraine's comments, which deserve to be recalled, show that this view is not exclusively defended by a reactionary right. There are other opinions than yours and I would like them to be heard and respected. For the time being, you are absolutely refusing to change your text, which, contrary to what you say, is a dogmatic position.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u600	Mrs Anne-Laure Blin has the floor to support Amendment No. 240.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u601	Since we began our consideration of this bill at second reading, you have been the spokespersons for women's voices. As I pointed out last night, you do not have a monopoly on women's speech.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u602	Neither do you!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u603	It is about their freedom and their choice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u604	As we look at this text, we see that you want to move forward on a forced path. You have extended the legal time limit for abortion from 12 to 14 weeks, you take away from women all means of reflection, you want to remove – we will talk about it later – the specific conscience clause of doctors. You're doing everything you can to ensure that women finally have only one choice: abortion. Today, women have the opportunity to think. Why would you take that right away from them? Are you so afraid that they can change their mind...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u605	Not at all!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u606	...to take away these forty-eight hours of reflection? Previous Governments had already removed the pre-interview period and had increased the time limit from seven days to 48 hours. What are you afraid of?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u607	You're welcome!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u608	Do you not trust women as much? They know exactly what they want, but they also – it's a woman who tells you – need to think about delicate situations. I do not believe that as legislators we should reflect on their place and remove any right to reflection from them. On the contrary, it would be our honour to give them the right to think, so that they can make the best decisions for their future.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u609	I call Mr Reiss to support Amendment No. 326.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u610	The removal of the 48-hour reflection period – already very short – before the practice of an IVG is a major mistake. This means, in my view, that you do not want the woman to reflect, and your approach seems to me to be infantilizing towards her. Removing this deadline for a major woman is a problem, but doing so for a more fragile minor is contrary to any form of progress. Women need a period of reflection before making such a decision. Each must therefore be able to continue to benefit from a reflection period of 48 hours.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u611	It's a right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u612	Amendment No 437 by Mrs Nathalie Serre is being defended. What is the committee's opinion on these deletion amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u613	Article 1 ter had been adopted by the National Assembly at first reading on the initiative of our colleague Cécile Muschotti and was intended to remove the 48-hour delay which persists between the prior psychosocial interview and the voluntary termination of pregnancy itself. First, there is no violation of women's freedom of choice. Secondly, we do not remove the possibility of reflection for those who wish to do so: the aim is to allow those who are perfectly determined to do so without waiting two more days. You explain that this expectation made it possible to make a choice in a more enlightened way. Let us recall the discussions on Article 1, which was adopted. When we proposed a two-week extension of the turnaround time for the GVI, you were not in favour of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u614	You're mixing everything!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u615	No, Mrs. Blin. Do you want me to repeat, if you don't understand? There is no violation of freedom of choice and we do not deprive women of the opportunity to think: they will be able to continue to do so for one, two, three or four days if they so wish. On the other hand, those who have made their decision will not be obliged to wait two more days. This is the subject of this article. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u616	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u617	Wisdom.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u618	It's not that obvious, the wisdom of the Government!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u619	It's a wisdom with variable geometry!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u620	Mrs Clementine Autain has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u621	The hours pass and the oppositions become clearer: on the one hand, there is the will to offer greater freedom of choice to women who wish to have an abortion and, on the other, the will to multiply the stages and the difficulties to force them to no longer have the choice. That is what is happening in this House. On the other hand, you make some rather troubling comparisons. Not only do you write it, but you repeat it in the Chamber: you compare an abortion to the purchase of a car. It's very special, though! You're trivializing him...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u622	You're the one who trivializes it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u623	No. You write that even when buying a car, you have a withdrawal period.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u624	The proof!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u625	Let's not compare abortion to the purchase of a car. I add that women have time to think. When conducting an IVG process, they often reflected upstream for well over 48 hours. You assume that these women begin to wonder about their abortion when they arrive at the pre-interview. But this is not the case at all! In general, when they come to the interview, the decision is already made.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u626	Usually, but not always!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u627	They can be shaken by discussion and want to take more time for reflection. There's nothing to stop them. Let us not block those who are determined to do so – I assure you that in this case, waiting is not a part of pleasure. When a woman really wants to have an abortion, it is not a service to her to impose an additional 48 hours on her. We defend women's freedom of choice without infantilizing them: they are large enough to carry out their own reflections, without constantly being subjected to an external look or an injunction to reflect – as if they were not capable of doing so.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u628	We need a period of reflection! We're not choosing a product!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u629	Mrs Aurore Bergé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u630	This article, if voted, will in no way prevent women who wish to do so from benefiting from a period of reflection. On the other hand, it will respect the decision of those who, after careful reflection, have made their decision – the rest, any woman who uses the IVG has thought it through. We do not want to impose on them an additional and compulsory period of 48 hours: that would be 48 hours too much. I also want to dispel a fantasy that the bill seems to feed: to hear you, if we guaranteed better access to the abortion, we would see hordes of women rushing to abort – as if, in our journeys of life, we had only one idea in mind, testing the abortion! At the risk of surprising you, the passage through the abortion box is never planned, regardless of our life course.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u631	She's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u632	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] On the other hand, one thing is certain: we expect society to respect our choice. Deciding to abort is not a part of pleasure. It's not annoyance. Stop wanting to qualify women's choice for them, and believe that if the right to abortion is more guaranteed and effective, women will resort to it massively. It is a complete disregard of women's life paths.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u633	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u634	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u635	I'm surprised to see you knuckled with so many certainties. For having talked to women who had to resort to abortion, I can testify that their situations are different: not everything is as simple as you say. When they come to the pre-interview, not all have already made their decision, and some still want to think. Moreover, don't miss it – I know you don't care about it – they are sometimes accompanied by a companion or, more rarely, by a companion. You underestimate the weight that this companion can have in their choice, because you have only one word in your mouth: women are free and have the right to dispose of their bodies as they see fit.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u636	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u637	Be aware that men sometimes weigh in the decision of women, in one direction or the other: some ask them not to abort, others to do so while they do not intend to. We must foresee these situations, even if they are not the general case. In these circumstances, the 48-hour period protects women.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u638	But no, it's the other way around!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u639	He protects women who wish to abort from the advice of their companion, since he gives them 48 hours to convince him that this is the best choice for their couple, with the support of the services and doctors who accompany them. Conversely, when a woman wants to keep the child while her companion does not want to,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u640	This gives his companion forty-eight extra hours!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u641	...this time-limit allows him to free himself from a decision that would be imposed on him immediately. Without these forty-eight hours, his companion could tell him to have an abortion immediately.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u642	Nothing is imposed! It is simply the obligation to respect this deadline that is lifted.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u643	[[Nicolas Meizonnet applauds]] You're shouting orfray, but for God's sake, open your eyes! Life is sometimes complicated, and some situations can be difficult: not everything is all black or all white. By removing the 48-hour reflection period, you no longer protect women – for in some cases, this period can be protective, you don't mind.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u644	I have before me seven amendments, Nos 460, 180, 242, 328, 256, 287 and 427, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 180, 242 and 328 are identical, as are Amendments Nos 256, 287 and 427. Amendment No 460 is the subject of four sub-amendments Nos 534, 501, 549 and 523. I call Mr Patrick Hetzel to support Amendment No. 460.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u645	Our views may, of course, diverge, but the provision provided for in the bill seems to me to be a serious violation of women's freedom, which runs the risk of haste, since, in the absence of a period of reflection, abortion will take place in the wake of the previous interview. In recent years, most of the institutional supports that were involved in the GVI process have been eliminated. I am thinking in particular of the preliminary talks and the deadlines for reflection: these have already been reduced, and you would like to go to the end by deleting them. Some in the Chamber obviously want to trivialise as much as possible an act that others do not consider to be banal. I am sorry to say that, but I do not consider this to be a common act, and I do not think that it should be considered as such.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u646	No one thinks so!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u647	I do not see how our position on women would be disrespectful. While the time for reflection is not necessary for some women, it is certainly necessary for those who are in a situation of fragility. But our role, as legislator, is also to care for the weakest: we must protect these women from all pressure, whatever it may be. As a result, the period of reflection should not be removed at all – I am surprised that in your argument, you do not care about the protection of the most fragile. You seem to deny this subject, which is of the utmost importance – without even mentioning the ethical issues at stake.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u648	Mr Nicolas Meizonnet's sub-amendment No 534 is being defended. I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support sub-amendment No. 501.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u649	I will be brief, because I have already expressed my views on the removal of the time limit for reflection. The subject of the IVG obliges us to reconcile two principles: on the one hand, the freedom of women, recognized by article 2 of the Declaration of the Rights of Man and of the Citizen, on the other hand, the protection of unborn life, which also has constitutional value. In my view, the removal of the time limit for reflection is a violation of women's rights and freedom, which you claim to defend: in certain situations, in fact, the 48-hour time limit can protect them. It is therefore very important to maintain it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u650	The woman can respect him if she wishes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u651	It is not a time for reflection of 48 hours that will make women exceed the legal deadline for abortion. We can perfectly maintain it, especially since it does not apply to all, but to minors and those who have had a prior interview. It can protect them, by allowing them to be accompanied and to carry out a reflection as a couple, as a family or as friends; In some cases, this may enable them to convince a somewhat recalcitrant spouse or companion, regardless of their own decision. It is extremely important to offer this opportunity to women, and therefore to maintain this deadline. Thinking well – because I believe you in good faith – you are waiting for the freedoms and rights of women.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u652	Mrs Catherine Pujol has the floor to support sub-amendment No. 549.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u653	The 48-hour reflection period must be maintained and used to expose young women to the various aids that can be offered to young mothers and single mothers.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u654	Subamendment No 523 by Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard is being defended. Mr Patrick Hetzel's amendment No. 180 is being defended. Mrs Anne-Laure Blin has the floor to support Amendment No. 242.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u655	The reflection period must be maintained – it would be even more reasonable to return to a seven-day period. You claim to be a continuation of Simone Veil, but in 1974 she stated that the bill provided for various consultations that would lead the woman to measure the seriousness of the decision she intended to make. Far from walking in Simone Veil's footsteps, you want to destructure and unbalance the law to the detriment of women.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u656	Amendment No 328 by Mr Frédéric Reiss is being defended. I call Mr Patrick Hetzel to support Amendment No. 256.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u657	I mentioned earlier the need to take into account the potential fragility of women. Do you think that the removal of the reflection period constitutes any guarantee for women? You argue that this deadline is not mandatory, and that those who wish to benefit from it will still be able to do so.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u658	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u659	However, some professionals, including family planning professionals, believe that this period may lead to a desirable development. You only consider the subject in one aspect, considering that the delay is a suffering for some women, and that it must be removed; But you forget to say that, for others, its removal is likely to cause very important regrets. A delay of 48 hours would allow them to follow another path. On this question, we do not hear you: you seem to see only one reality, while, on the ground, we see that there are others. The removal of the deadline can solve some difficulties, but it can also create them: you act as if they did not exist.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u660	Mrs Anne-Laure Blin has the floor to support Amendment No. 287.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u661	Unfortunately, you seem completely closed to our explanations. If there is a time limit for reflection, it is because the woman is about to make an irreversible choice. Once the act is carried out, it will be final and irreversible; She won't be able to change her mind. If a woman conceives regrets after having an abortion, she will keep them for the rest of her life. It's a heavy burden you're putting on him.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u662	Those who wish to do so will meet the deadline!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u663	You will inflict psychological abuse on them, not allowing them to land and think for 48 hours.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u664	Women know how to think for themselves!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u665	If some are convinced of their choice, as you repeat in a loop, they will not change their mind. But the others, especially the most fragile, will need this 48-hour delay.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u666	They can take it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u667	Why take it away from everyone? Keep it in mind: this will demonstrate your openness and willingness to offer the most fragile women an opportunity to think.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u668	Mr Frédéric Reiss, in support of Amendment No. 427, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u669	The use of abortion is a serious procedure of psychological and physical consequences for the woman or even the father of the child. We are aware that the seven-day period, which has lasted for a long time, will not be restored, but we propose to retain at least 24 hours of legal reflection, rather than completely abolishing it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u670	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u671	I confirm that we are against these amendments, as I confirm the retention of the deadline for reflection for women who wish to do so.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u672	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u673	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u674	Mr Guillaume Gouffier-Cha has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u675	Article 2 is not intended, as some claim, to eliminate any possibility for a medical professional to refuse to engage in a voluntary termination of pregnancy, but to allow better support for women who present themselves to interrupt an unwanted pregnancy. A doctor or midwife is not obliged to perform an IVG, but he is obliged to inform the woman without delay of his refusal, and above all to refer him to a practitioner who accepts these interventions. Doctors have a duty to accompany women by listening to them, trying to understand why this child is impossible. Thanks to an amendment by the Republic Group, we are also creating in this article a directory of professionals and structures practising abortions, which will be published by the regional health agencies. As a result, the information will be better and the care path will be faster, thus more effective. There is still a real taboo on this subject, while all women – I insist, all of them – face it from close or far away. Always and again, the announcement is made in shame and guilt – the shame of having failed, of having missed his contraception, of having been raped, of not having been perfectly informed, of not having reacted well, of being subjected to violence, of being afraid, and then of being guilty of being faced with this choice, choice which might be different a few months later, which is necessary at the moment. Some may even feel that they are out of the law, even though the law does not enact what is right or wrong, but sets limits resulting from a consensus that is due to circumstances of particular time and place, in short, to morals. These circumstances are changing, and that is what we are doing. Abortion should not be a concession made by the medical profession to women; It is a fundamental right, the free disposition of its body and the choice of what each wants for their future. Let us stop seeing abortion as a failure, let us see it as a solution.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u676	Mr Patrick Hetzel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u677	This article removes the conscience clause, which raises both legal and ethical questions. Ladies and gentlemen, you are blaming the conscience clause on abortion for stigmatizing and vilifying doctors who already have a general conscience clause. The argument is not convincing on the legal front, because, contrary to what is often said, these two clauses are not identical. Here I rely on the work of the associate professor of law Nicolas Kermabon, who states that "the specific clause of the IVG and the clause of general consciousness do not benefit exactly the same beneficiaries: while the general clause protects doctors, midwives and nurses, the specific clause benefits all medical staff". He adds that "these two clauses do not cover the same scope: the specific clause lays down an absolute principle – practitioners are never required to practice an IVG – while the general clause provides for an exception, in that it cannot be invoked in "emergency". Finally, "they do not have the same legal value: the specific clause has been established by law, while the general clause has only a regulatory value which is legally inferior. The removal of the specific clause would thus reduce the legal value of the protection of healthcare workers. » Moreover, as you will have noted, the deletion of this clause does not really make consensus among the professionals concerned. That is why many of us will oppose it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u678	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u679	The clause of conscience, yesterday sanctified, is now under threat. It was this point of acceptance considered essential by Simone Veil herself, who in her 1974 speech said: "It goes without saying that no doctor or medical assistant will ever be required to participate [in an IVG]. What was of course almost fifty years ago is now being questioned by yourself, who yet you are calling for the then Minister of Health. What a paradox!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u680	Nothing will change!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u681	And it is not the only one: on the one hand, we are told that abortion is a right that makes consensus, which should even be established as a fundamental principle of our society; On the other hand, in order to enforce it, it would have become necessary to reduce the awareness clause of medical personnel as a matter of grief. Again, what a paradox! Perhaps it is because the voices of more and more doctors rise to speak of their growing malaise in performing abortions under these conditions? And that is not going to work out with the arrangements you are proposing to vote on! Instead of doing everything possible to reduce the number of abortions, you are trying to impose the idea that abortion would be an annoyance, by removing from the law the rule that a doctor or midwife is never required to engage in a voluntary termination of pregnancy. In fact, the CCNE – which you invoke when it suits you – has expressed a negative opinion on the deletion of the specific conscience clause of doctors, clause requiring practitioners who refuse the abortion to direct the patient immediately to a colleague who accepts it. To remove this reorientation would be a regression, and a regression massively contested by the profession. Again, you propose a provision that ultimately violates women's freedom.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u682	Mrs Clementine Autain has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u683	This article has been awaited for many years by feminist movements fighting for the right to abortion. It's progress. A consensus was reached at the time the Veil law was passed; but it was in a context of great tension, and it is now dated. Legislation was being cleared to move towards a right; It's much clearer today. We are all aware that this clause is used to the detriment of some women, who would like to abort and are prevented in their journeys. We will therefore vote on this article. Minister, I almost always hear you give wisdom.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u684	Yes.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u685	[[Mrs. Elsa Faucillon applauds]] Women's rights are a fight; wisdom, in this matter, is to fight for them. Would it be possible for the Government to commit itself? This bill may be blocked in the Senate, and may never succeed even if it is voted by the National Assembly this week. We therefore need the political will of the Government. Could you do anything other than wait for this to happen?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u686	Mrs Annie Chapelier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u687	The Group of the European People's Party working together on the principle of freedom of vote, I am speaking here on my own behalf. This article will make the right to abortion more effective. There are still doctors who use this double conscience clause, as we call it, to refuse an IVG, when they did not necessarily need it. I don't know what new arguments we can use to convince those who think we're withdrawing medical rights. But I would like to point out that the clause of general conscience exists, and already allows a doctor or midwife to refuse any act, whatever it may be. Specific awareness clauses exist not only for IVG, but also for definitive sterilization or stem cell work: they were made to reassure some practitioners, to whom the general clause might seem insufficient. For the past fifty years, doctors have all been trained on these issues; They know that they do not need to mobilise this specific awareness clause.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u688	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u689	[[Marie-Noëlle Battistel, rapporteur, applauds]] It now has only one consequence: the stigmatization of the gesture of IVG, and therefore of the women concerned. I see signs of denial... But that is the case. It is high time to be consistent and to remove this clause from our law.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u690	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u691	During the presentation of the text, I spoke about this article. You know that the Government has taken a wise position on the whole text. The debate on the specific conscience clause is obviously complex; I understand the meaning of it, and it is not denigrating it to say that it is semantic – and a little legal. The general conscientiousness clause is regulatory, it is ethical, while the specific conscientiousness clause concerning the abortion is enshrined in the law.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u692	Legally, it makes all the difference!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u693	Currently, if you vote this article 2 as it stands and the law is promulgated, there will no longer be a conscience clause specific to the IVG. But it is a semantic debate: as long as the regulations do not change, doctors will not see their exercise disrupted on a daily basis. Those who do not wish to accompany patients on an IVG course will not be required to do so as they will continue to benefit from the general awareness clause. I understand that semantics can be a battle, but I also consider that you are leading a lot of battles – and you will win them, as far as this bill is concerned. You know my personal commitment with you. To be quite frank, it can also happen that a word is a crisis. In this case, it is not excluded that a misinterpretation of the removal of the consciousness clause sows the disorder within the medical community. The part of the law which is not in favour of the right to abortion in general, and less so the extension of the period from 12 to 14 weeks, remains in retreat today, considering that this bill does not look at it; tomorrow it could consider that we would be on the path of a form of constraint, even if this is not the case at present. You know this by heart, you are parliamentarians, you do politics. I would simply like to draw your attention to this point. I'm certainly not here to distribute good or bad points. The debate is progressing well, I believe, in a respectful atmosphere, without obstruction. You are on the point, ladies and gentlemen, parliamentarians of the majority – a larger majority in this case – to win battles that honour you. Pay attention to possible swings. Again, I am very quiet about the right to abortion and the whole bill. I cannot be blamed for any conservatism in this matter, but I encourage you to be vigilant. I have talked about it with obstetric gynaecologists who practice IVG: some of these committed doctors fear that the removal of the specific clause of consciousness will be understood as the beginning of a constraint, or that practitioners will feel compelled to welcome women into an IVG journey. These, then, would be badly received. In their view, it is better to ensure that they are cared for by committed doctors, and even activists, than to take the risk that they will be misdirected. I share this in full transparency, because it is my role. I confirm the Government's wisdom on this article 2 as well as on the whole text, but I stress this particular sensitivity of the subject: sometimes, if you want to do well, you can slide on the other side.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u694	All the groups that wished to do so spoke on article 2. Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-30-O1078.u695	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one thirty: Following the discussion at second reading of the bill to strengthen the right to abortion. The meeting is adjourned.
