ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-25-O1216.u1	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the bill to combat violent individuals during demonstrations (No. 3848, 3990).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-25-O1216.u2	This afternoon, the Assembly began to hear the speakers in the general discussion. Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-25-O1216.u3	The purpose of this bill, which is made up of a single article, is to "contribute to the fight against these scenes of urban guerrillas by prohibiting [...] the most violent people from participating in demonstrations". It creates administrative prohibitions in the Code of Internal Security against violent individuals who have not yet been apprehended or tried by law enforcement officials. The explanatory memorandum also states that the proposed provisions "are inspired by article 3 of the law" anti-demonstrative of April 2019, a law which has been denounced as a liberticide by many defenders and defenders of rights and freedoms, and whose famous article 3 has been censored by the Constitutional Council. We strongly oppose this text. The new administrative measures it contains, based on suspicion and whose violation leads to criminal sanctions, which constitutes a reversal of the burden of proof, are unnecessary and dangerous. They violate fundamental, constitutional, manifest and express rights and freedoms. They are mainly in line with the authoritarian drift experienced by the Macro regime over the past three years. Indeed, since his election in 2017, Emmanuel Macron has accompanied his plan to destroy the social state by an increasingly visible restriction of individual freedoms and the means of pluralist democratic debate. In all areas, the worst trends of its predecessors have been aggravated: immigration, justice, police, supervision of the right to protest, censorship on the Internet, overbidding under the pretext of anti-terrorism and now a health crisis, and so on. From a legislative and regulatory point of view, this quinquennium is probably the worst in terms of public and individual freedoms. In total, the entire republican freedom regime is damaged by this mandate. In particular, this text continues the movement initiated by the Government and the majority of the abolition of the main principles of criminal law. I would like to return to three of them: the legality of offences and penalties, the necessity and the presumption of innocence. The principle of legality of offences and penalties implies that laws must clearly and precisely define criminality and penalties. However, all the offences already introduced by the majority were precisely vague and general offences, leaving a discretionary power to the law enforcement authorities. This bill is also contrary to this principle, as it leaves the same decision-making power to the prefects to determine the acts and violent acts underlying the ban. It leaves room for an even stronger police and prefectural arbitrariness. With regard to the need for offences and penalties, it should be recalled that article 8 of the Declaration of Human and Citizen's Rights states that "the law shall establish only strictly and obviously necessary penalties" in order to exclude arbitrariness. However, all the provisions already introduced in 2019, the laws previously enacted and this bill again leave room for arbitrariness, as I have already said, especially since there was already a repressive arsenal in the penal code, prior to 2019, to condemn the violence committed by individuals in demonstrations. Consequently, the introduction of new offences, aimed at criminalizing conduct that is not in itself reprehensible, serves only to mask a form of incompetence of political power and the lack of order given to the police in cases of disorder that occurred during mobilizations. Finally, the use of administrative prohibitions is a hijacked way of emptying the principle of presumption of innocence from its substance. In criminal law, a person is presumed innocent until proof of the commission of an offence has been provided. A person's freedoms cannot be restricted on the grounds that he or she is expected to commit an offence. That is precisely what this bill does, again in the straight line of everything that has been voted by this House and defended by this government. In fact, colleagues in the IDU and independent group explained that they were fully in line with the Government's logic and went to the end of it. We must put an end to the escalation of security and freedom, which sees our country being criticized and condemned by all national and international bodies for the defence of human rights and civil liberties, while being taken as an example, on the other hand, by many authoritarian regimes. If we are now placed in the category of "failed democracies" in the international rankings, it is because of the restrictions on freedoms undertaken under the health crisis as well as because of the Government's setbacks. The Republic can be nothing but a regime of freedom. In pursuing this goal, the Government, the majority and now this bill run counter to our fundamental principles. This text must not only be rejected, but must also challenge all the policies that have been initiated and are moving in the same direction. That's what we'll do when we're in power.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-25-O1216.u4	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-25-O1216.u5	It was with a certain astonishment that we became aware of the bill put forward by our colleagues in the IUD-I Group, because we found it strange to start a relevant reflection on how to combat discrimination in identity checks, even if the proposal was finally removed from the IUD-I niche, and to defend, at the same time, a text aimed at introducing an administrative ban on demonstrations. What, then, do you need to help Mr. Retailleau, the promoter of this very bad idea that you are taking on your own account? It is a mystery that you may clarify: in any event, there is no doubt that this bill is strictly incompatible with the values that communist deputies defend. Indeed, we do not want a decision of a judicial nature to be entrusted to the administrative authority. Today, the individual ban on demonstrations is possible, but it can only be decided by the criminal court against persons guilty of violence, destruction, damage or damage. If the bill were to be passed, the ban on protest would become a preventive administrative measure, taken on the basis of suspicion and in a perfectly discretionary manner. It would then be entirely permissible for a police prefect to issue orders concerning political or trade union activists, and the behaviour of Didier Lallement, the police prefect of Paris, is not to reassure us on this point. To see him question a protestant sixty-year-old yellow vest completely peaceful to tell him that they are "not in the same camp", it is said that his conception of the Republic is worrying. Such behaviour does not reassure us of the powers that the bill, if passed, would give the prefects. We are equally opposed to an umpteenth attempt to enshrine in the common law an exceptional measure – this is a heavy trend, dangerous for our democracy, and would, in this case, constitute a serious obstacle to the freedom to manifest, a fundamental right enshrined as such in the Constitution and jurisprudence. It is for this reason, moreover, that the Constitutional Council, at the request of the GDR, Socialist and related groups and France, and by the President of the Republic himself, following the adoption of Mr. Retailleau's bill to strengthen and guarantee the maintenance of public order during the demonstrations, has rebutted the mechanism provided for in article 3 of the Constitution, because it "brought to the right of collective expression of ideas and opinions an infringement which is not appropriate, necessary and proportionate. This is also true of today's discussion, despite the small accommodations that you have kindly conceded as a measure by nature incompatible with our democratic regime. In reality, the means to fight against the black blocs and violent groups are to be sought elsewhere: it must be a communist who tells you, since, obviously, these famous black blocs are systematically spared, to believe that they are in fact the best allies of an unjust social order. Why aren't the police ordered to arrest them, since these groups are well known to the authorities? We would like to discredit social movements and frighten peaceful citizens who wish to join the peaceful processions of demonstrators that we would not do otherwise. In any event, the police and the competent authorities have all the necessary means to arrest these violent groups. This bill, in addition to being dangerous to our freedoms, is therefore of no use. Our management of law and order needs to be thoroughly reformed, but the time when our country could boast of some kind of law and order know-how is now far behind us. The management of the demonstrations of yellow vests thus illustrates a breakdown of the doctrine of law and order which has led to numerous slippages, violence and serious injuries, exacerbating the tension week after week rather than mitigating it, a situation which the systematic use of untrained police personnel has obviously further aggravated. Ladies and gentlemen, the maintenance of law and order must become what it was and allow the exercise of public freedoms in accordance with public order, which constitutes democracy. It requires a strict balance between these two requirements, so that the right to manifest can be exercised properly. As a result, the violent will be marginalized and the main victims of the violence, who are – remember – the demonstrators themselves, will be able to exercise their legitimate right. This bill, which carries arbitrary and discretionary measures, does not in any way guarantee this freedom again: that is why we will vote against it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-25-O1216.u6	Mr Pacôme Rupin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-25-O1216.u7	For several years, demonstrations have given rise to numerous crimes, violence against people, deterioration of monuments or shops, clashes with law enforcement, and the ongoing trial for the unacceptable deterioration of the Arc de Triomphe in December 2018 reminds us of this phenomenon that has been going on for several years now. In addition to these slippages, events are becoming increasingly unpredictable and less structured than in the past. All this does not facilitate the maintenance of law and order or the exercise of the effective right to demonstrate. These crimes, as we know, are committed by a small minority of violent individuals. More than claiming or debating, they seek chaos, as well as to train peaceful people with them by triggering violence. It is indeed the majority of the demonstrators, who want to express their ideas and exercise their freedom of expression in a calm manner, who are the first victims of these acts. The phenomenon of black blocks clearly illustrates this spoliation of causes. This violence in some way deprives our fellow citizens of their freedom to demonstrate, which is serious. As a Member of Parliament for Paris, whose constituency covers the Republic-Bastille axis, I know how much these events exasperate the people who are afraid, the shopkeepers, whose windows are regularly ransacked, as well as the many citizens who demonstrate in accordance with the rules and feel that they can no longer express themselves as they wish. Our majority has always tried to maintain a balance between guaranteeing, on the one hand, the right to demonstrate, which flows directly from the Declaration of Human and Citizen Rights and, on the other hand, public order and the protection of law enforcement. This work is also carried out by our security forces through the White Paper on Internal Security or the Beauvau de la sécurité. On the one hand, it is a question of better preventing the formation of violent groups, of isolating and judicializing troublemakers; on the other hand, to strengthen mediation and dialogue with demonstrators and organizers, in order to protect them and preserve their freedom of expression. The text of the UDI-I Group, defended by the rapporteur Pascal Brindeau, aims to create an administrative ban on demonstrations: in concrete terms, if a person posed a serious threat characterized by past acts, the prefect could issue this ban by order reasoned for a demonstration on public roads or for any demonstration on the territory for ten days. This provision reproduces Article 3 of the law of 10 April 2019, known as "anti-casseurs", proposed in the Senate by Mr.Retailleau and adopted by the National Assembly. The Constitutional Council censored this article, considering that it gave the administrative authority excessive latitude in assessing the grounds for the prohibition. The infringement of the freedom to demonstrate was found to be disproportionate, given the scope of the contested prohibition, the grounds for it and the conditions under which it was challenged. While we can welcome the work of the rapporteur, who has tried to take into account the reservations of the Constitutional Council, we believe, however, that the proposed balance between the preservation of public order and freedom to manifest remains uncertain. This concern, shared by many groups, led to the rejection of the text by the Law Commission. At this stage, we believe it is necessary to take a step back and analyse the effects of the 2019 law, which already gives important levers to the judicial judge, the guarantor of individual freedoms. Article 7 allows him to impose a penalty of no participation in demonstrations on the public highway, which may not exceed three years. Article 8 makes it possible to prohibit a person under judicial supervision from taking part in demonstrations on the public road, in places determined by the investigating judge or the judge of freedoms and detention – JLD. Before we legislate again, let us see if these measures are effective and take into account the opinion of the Constitutional Council. This should not be an argument for us, I agree, but we have already legislated on this subject, taking the risk of censorship. And this risk has materialized. That is why, while sharing your willingness to combat the violence committed during the demonstrations, the working Republic Group will take this decision of the Constitutional Council into account by voting against this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-25-O1216.u8	Mr Antoine Savignat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-25-O1216.u9	The purpose of this bill is to combat violent individuals during demonstrations, a subject of great importance and topical importance: in recent times, we have observed a rise in violence during demonstrations in France, committed by individuals who attack the forces of law and order, burn the urban furniture and loot the shops that have the misfortune of being on the route of the processions. These destructions and clashes have become almost systematic and are now relegating the demands of peaceful demonstrators to the background. Let us take the example of the black blocks, whose modus operandi aims to cause as much damage as possible and which have left behind several times landscapes of desolation, especially during the demonstrations of 1 May, against the labour law or those of the yellow vests, and many more. This is true of every demonstration since François Hollande's quinquennium. The Government and the majority do not seem comfortable on these issues, yet common sense, to ensure security and public order. Freedom of expression and freedom of expression do not allow everything. To assault a police or gendarmerie official is not to use his freedom to demonstrate. Burning a shelter or a construction vehicle is not using its freedom of expression, nor is it looting a store or ruining a public place. It's pure and harsh violence, you have to remember. The role of the State is to do everything possible to prevent it and thus guarantee the right to manifest and freedom of expression. Since the protests on the labour law, the media have only one focus of information when it comes to covering a demonstration: the number of degradations and arrests. This is contrary to the interests of the demonstrators, whose claims are no longer repeated or only in anecdotal fashion. Moreover, the safety of peaceful demonstrators is threatened by the actions of violent individuals, whose sole aim is to break and defy the forces of law and order. To vote in favour of these measures is to combat violence during demonstrations and commit to the right to demonstrate and freedom of expression. It was indeed urgent to act so that the breakers and looters did not have their hands free. The Republicans Group had done so in 2018, by introducing a bill on the subject in the Senate, which was passed. However, before its entry into force the following year, the Constitutional Council decided to partially censor it. However, it was intended to strengthen and ensure the maintenance of public order during demonstrations, by giving the authorities legal instruments to put the breakers and attackers of the law enforcement agencies out of their state of harm. The text adopted by Parliament gave the Prefect the ability to prohibit a person who was a threat to public order, which could extend throughout the national territory, from protesting. It was this provision that the Constitutional Council decided to censor, finding that the legislator violated the right to collective expression of ideas and opinions which was "unsuited, necessary and proportionate". In order to respond to this censorship, the UDI-I Group of the National Assembly has tabled the bill that we are considering tonight. It aims to combat violent individuals during demonstrations by introducing the possibility of prohibiting them from participating in one or more demonstrations. Persons constituting particularly serious threats to public order, whose actions have led to violence or degradation, may be prohibited, by a reasoned order of the prefect or prefect of police in Paris, from participating in a demonstration during which such attacks and damage are likely to take place. Such persons may also be prohibited from taking part in any demonstration throughout the national territory for a period not exceeding 10 days. Failure to comply with these prohibitions will be punishable by three years' imprisonment and a fine of 7,500 euros. We will vote in favour of this bill by our colleagues in the UDI-I Group, which takes back the will and the operative part of the so-called anti-casseurs law of our fellow senators, while at the same time surprising that the Government and the majority do not wish to make operational a device that they themselves had placed on the agenda.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-25-O1216.u10	Mrs Maud Petit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-25-O1216.u11	Since the beginning of the week, ten people have been tried for damage and robbery in the Arc de Triomphe two years ago, following a demonstration of yellow vests. We all have in mind the images of this ruin, of this unacceptable and shocking violence; We remember our sideration in front of these overflows. The breakers are a scourge: they are a considerable violation of the freedom to demonstrate, a fundamental freedom to which the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats are viscerally attached. These violent groups, which are not representative of the majority of demonstrators, are detrimental to public order and to the safety of people and property. That is why we understand your approach, Mr. Rapporteur, as reflected in your bill. However, our group believes that time must be allowed for our existing legal arsenal to bear fruit. The law of 10 April 2019 already gives the authorities legal instruments to put out of condition to harm those who break and attack the law enforcement forces during demonstrations. The judicial authority, the guardian of individual freedoms, has the means of action that allow us to maintain the right balance between freedom to demonstrate and security. It is therefore not appropriate for us to re-regulate in order to put in place an administrative ban on demonstrations against persons who may constitute a threat of particular gravity to public order at a demonstration on public roads. We agree with your observation, Mr rapporteur: some protest movements are infiltrated by black blocs, which have no other objective but to break and confront the forces of law and order, sometimes with unheard of violence. These radical elements, which have no place in these demonstrations, unfortunately provoke almost insurrectional scenes, types of jacqueries, which give rise to calls for hatred and unacceptable violence against law enforcement officials, journalists, elected officials and even demonstrators. This violence is accompanied by numerous damage and destruction of shops, vehicles and public equipment, the cost of which is borne by the community. Under these difficult conditions, the forces of law and order, which already have to ensure the security of the French on a daily basis and face the terrorist threat still present, intervene with courage and professionalism. We must therefore allow them to act by ensuring their safety as much as possible, which means strengthening their human and financial resources. Senator Bruno Retailleau's bill, which became the law of April 10, 2019, known as the anti-casseurs act, already provided for the provision before us today to combat this violence, but it was censored by the Constitutional Council. Of course, you have taken into account his observations: your drafting is more respectful of our fundamental law. However, as in 2019, our group is particularly concerned that such measures can guarantee public freedoms while preserving public order. Fearing that it will not achieve this balance that is indispensable to our rule of law, he will not vote for this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-25-O1216.u12	Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-25-O1216.u13	The purpose of this text is to give prefects the possibility of prohibiting demonstrations of persons considered to be threats to public order, in consideration of their actions or the commission of violent acts. This bill thus incorporates the content of the so-called anti-casseurs law, adopted in 2019 and censored in part by the Constitutional Council. By resuming almost identically the content of the 2019 law, this text is subject to the same criticisms as those which had earned the Constitutional Council's censorship. In its decision of 4 April 2019, he recalled, in particular, on the basis of article 11 of the 1789 Declaration: "Freedom of expression and communication, from which the right to collective expression of ideas and opinions derives, is all the more valuable since its exercise is a condition of democracy and one of the guarantees of respect for other rights and freedoms. It follows that infringements of this freedom and right must be necessary, adapted and proportionate to the objective pursued. » As has been repeatedly recalled in 2019 in the context of the debates in our Assembly, such an infringement of fundamental freedom could only be decided by the judicial judge with all the legal guarantees he represents, and in no case by an administrative authority. Our legal tradition prohibits the placing of fundamental freedom in the hands of the administration and, even less, on the basis of criteria so vague that arbitrariness cannot be avoided. As in the proposed law put forward by the UDI-I group, the censored law of 2019 was aimed at "violent acts or acts", while the notion of acting is particularly blurred. The prohibition could thus be imposed on the basis of any action, whether or not it is connected with the commission of violence. Moreover, any behaviour, regardless of its seniority, could justify the imposition of a ban on demonstrations. Finally, where a public demonstration had not been the subject of a declaration or the declaration had been late, the prohibition order was ex officio enforceable and could be notified to the person at any time, including during the event to which it applied. For all these reasons, the Constitutional Council therefore held that, given the scope of the contested prohibition, the grounds for it and the conditions under which it was challenged, the legislator had violated the right to collective expression of ideas and opinions, which was not appropriate, necessary and proportionate. The same causes with the same effects, this bill, if adopted, would be subject to the same censorship. The members of the Socialist and related group, who participated in the drafting of the appeal against the 2019 law and contributed to the referral of the Constitutional Council with the other groups of the left, will logically oppose this text. Our legislative arsenal, which is often recalled in this House, is full of texts which, each time, outbid the previous ones and try to respond in the moment and emotion to events, not to real questions – such as the satisfactory conditions for maintaining order, which deserves the definition of a strategy understood and accepted by all, therefore based on trust. At a time when our individual and collective freedoms are becoming more and more forceful in trying to find a solution to the incredible health crisis that suffocates us and worries us a little more each day, this proposal has come particularly badly. If ultraviolence strongly questions the democrats we are and if, like you, we denounce it, we do not see in this text any specific means of combating it in substance or the means of better supporting our law enforcement forces and, at the same time, peaceful demonstrators. On the other hand, the urgency in which we find ourselves cannot lead to once again undermining, under any pretext whatsoever, the freedom to manifest and the collective expression to which French society is particularly attached. For all these reasons, the Socialist and Related Group will vote against this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-25-O1216.u14	Mrs Agnès Firmin Le Bodo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-25-O1216.u15	Before dealing with the content of this bill, I would like to recall, particularly for the citizens who listen to us and look at us, the legislation in force on the prohibition of demonstrations. Freedom of demonstration is not guaranteed by the Constitution but by an important decision of the Constitutional Council of 18 January 1995, which enshrined a right to collective expression of ideas and opinions. Freedom of expression is thus a fundamental freedom, supported in particular by articles 10 and 11 of the Declaration of the Rights of Man and the Citizen of 1789, which state that everyone has the right to freedom of peaceful assembly and freedom of association. At the same time, this freedom is subject to a declaration regime. If the police authority considers that the planned demonstration is likely to disturb public order, it may prohibit it by an order which it shall immediately notify the organizers. The police measures taken in this capacity are, however, subject to judicial scrutiny by the judge of the excess of power, who ensures on a case-by-case basis that the infringement of freedoms is necessary, appropriate and proportionate on the grounds of public order. Since the freedom in question is of the nature of fundamental freedom, the prohibition measures may be challenged by way of interim relief. At the individual level, the Criminal Code allows the judicial judge to impose a ban on demonstrations for up to three years in the context of a trial following violence in protest. However, the present text proposes to create an individual administrative ban on violent persons from participating in demonstrations, apart from any judicial judgement. Such a measure would be issued by the prefect of the department or the police prefect. It appears that this bill is giving rise to a debate on its constitutionality, a debate that I would like to discuss. The explanatory memorandum makes explicit reference to the decision of the Constitutional Council that censors article 3 of the Act to strengthen and ensure the maintenance of public order during demonstrations, the so-called anti-casseurs law. It should be recalled that the Sages de la rue de Montpensier had considered that this measure infringed the right to collective expression of ideas and opinions and thus violated article 11 of the Declaration of the Rights of Man and the Citizen of 1789. In detail, the Constitutional Council pointed out that "the legislator has not imposed that the conduct in question necessarily relates to serious bodily harm or material damage to property that occurred during [a] demonstration". Violations of public freedoms in the name of law and order were neither proportionate nor adequately regulated. In the light of this decision, it would appear that it is not the principle of an individual ban on demonstrations, decided by the Prefect, that is considered unconstitutional, but its modalities. It therefore seems to me that, in the light of this analysis, the rapporteur took the view that the Council could judge such a constitutional prohibition, provided that the modalities of such prohibition were adapted. He therefore translated his interpretation into legislation. On the other hand, the ban on demonstrations is resembling a not-so-old history dating back to the Algerian war, where attempts to restrict the freedom to demonstrate have been disastrous. It is therefore with a trembling hand that we must intervene on the freedom to manifest. However, we cannot allow the word of the greatest number to be made inaudible by some thugs of reprehensible behaviour. We cannot admit that a few people cast reproach on the words of a majority. It is by evolving on this narrow ridge line that we need to legislate. As far as the philosophy of this text is concerned, we all share the will to fight against individuals who confiscate the defence of the cause for which they have chosen to meet. Nevertheless, the Group of the European People's Party will vote against this bill for two reasons. On the one hand, because article 66 of the Constitution provides that the independent judicial judge is the guarantor of individual freedoms. In my view, this great principle should only be derogated from in very specific and framed cases, as we have done with the law strengthening internal security and the fight against terrorism, the so-called SILT law. On the other hand, to repeat the explanatory memorandum again, I am concerned about the effectiveness of the measure. In fact, it states that "these highly regulated administrative prohibitions will allow to touch violent individuals that our law enforcement forces have failed to apprehend". It is therefore difficult to imagine the concrete and material feasibility of a ban on a person who has failed to be apprehended. In a State governed by the rule of law, when an individual who had committed violence against property or persons was questioned, his identity was identified, an investigation was carried out, evidence was reported, and he was tried in fact and in law by a judge at the seat. For these reasons, and not on the basis of its supposed unconstitutionality, the Group of the European People's Party will vote against this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-25-O1216.u16	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-25-O1216.u17	Marcel Achard, a French writer and playwright, said that "the cruelest manifestation of the public is his absence. Let him whistle, but let him come." And the least we can say is that since the beginning of Emmanuel Macron's quinquennium, demonstrations and whistles, there have been: yellow vests, pension reform, medically assisted procreation – LDCs – for all, global security law and I pass, the French have beaten the pavement. It is normal, it is a fundamental right, a right that allows our democracy to express itself, and it is so much better. Unfortunately, this right is too often trampled on by thugs who infiltrate the demonstrations and destroy everything on their way: shop windows, vandalized urban furniture, assaulted law enforcement and protesters too often caught up. Everywhere they go, it's chaos and urban guerilla. The worst part of it is that they are known: they are called black blocks, antifas or criminals with a well-stocked criminal record, yet every week they start again and the French can no longer. Faced with this fact, we must act, finally, because it is high time to be on the side of the traders, who now refuse to be looted, French people, who want to be able to express themselves and make their voice heard without fear of getting recovered, or police officers who are at the end of being assaulted with Molotov cocktails and other iron bars or paved bars under which allegedly the beach is located. This is what this courageous bill, defended by our colleague Pascal Brindeau, is doing. It does so without false appearances to protect the right to demonstrate by choosing to place itself upstream of the violence that might occur, to cut, in a way, the grass under the foot of the individuals whose people it is to be feared that they might harm public order and thus, of course, the proper conduct of the demonstrations. And I fully agree with that logic. I can only regret that this bill was rejected by the majority in committee with one back of the hand. Even the editorial amendments have not found thanks to your eyes. At the same time, admit that the "circular, there is nothing to see", has difficulty passing, when each of us keeps in mind the scenes of unheard-of violence which too often disfigure the processions of demonstrators and which, at the same time, give France, our France, a deplorable image because symbol of its inability to neutralize a few hundred violent, ultraviolent individuals. Because a number of us are aware that the right to demonstrate cannot be dissociated from the duty of the State to ensure the security of all, it is time to strengthen legislation. In the face of the black bloc phenomenon, judicial prohibitions and identification measures are no longer sufficient. It is therefore our duty to complete the legal arsenal at the disposal of law enforcement and administrative authorities, in order to finally show some effectiveness. Let us be clear, it is not a question of preventing brave citizens from protesting, but of fighting against this real urban guerrilla led by gangs to terrorize all those who want to demonstrate dignifiedly and to break who of the cop, who of the windows, who of the urban furniture. This bill has the merit of taking the important subject of violence in demonstrations. It is a balanced text that firmly responds to this phenomenon which exaggerates the French, while taking into account the objections expressed by the Constitutional Council in section 3 of the bill originally presented by Senator Les Républicains Bruno Retailleau. The rapporteur recalled this in committee and again this evening: in its decision, the Constitutional Council did not call into question the principle of a ban on demonstrations in the event of threats of particular gravity to public order, but only the manner in which it was implemented. This text is correcting this and I confess that, no more than this afternoon with the proposed law on unaccompanied minors, I do not understand those of you, the Government in mind, who are opposed to this text. So we shouldn't have to do anything and go through the law of these breakers without reacting? I am and I remain most attentive to the protection of our fundamental freedoms, but when it comes to balancing two freedoms, I prefer to protect the rights of law-abiding citizens rather than the rights of breakers. So, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Deputy Minister for Citizenship, a little bit of courage: let us vote this evening on this necessary, obvious and relevant bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-25-O1216.u18	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-25-O1216.u19	Mr Pascal Brindeau, rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-25-O1216.u20	I thank the speakers for their contribution to this debate. I will recall the state of mind in which we worked. First, as all have said, we are viscerally attached to the fundamental freedom to manifest and express a political opinion collectively or individually. No one, with one or two exceptions, questioned our goodwill. Secondly, we do not oppose the fact that the judicial judge is the guarantor of individual freedoms – which is a constitutional principle – with certain exceptions already provided for in the texts. Those who referred to it in support of their argument acknowledged it. These exceptions allow, in the end, to respect the fundamental freedom of the greatest number at the expense of an alleged fundamental freedom of some. I prefer this blasphemy to strict respect for the separation between judicial and administrative authorities if it allows peaceful demonstrators to continue to protest and if troublemakers, offenders, breakers are prevented from acting. For, as we know, the judicial ban imposed by the judge is now almost inoperative, almost unusual and we let, out of weakness or perhaps cowardice, finally, individuals go to peaceful gatherings, build up in black blocks to break the cop, break urban furniture, windows, causing the greatest sideration among all our fellow citizens. The argument of possible unconstitutionality was invoked, in particular, by the representative of the running Republic Group. I repeat what has been said during the examination of the previous texts: we are Parliament, we are the elected representatives of the people.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-25-O1216.u21	We do not have, when making proposals, to self-censor ourselves in advance by speculating on the constitutionality or unconstitutionality of the mechanism that we defend. As you have seen, our proposal is based, grievance by grievance, on the recommendations of the Constitutional Council. I contest the analysis that I interpret the decision of the Constitutional Council when I say that it did not question the principle of administrative prohibition. He made it clear in paragraph 21 of his decision that the legislator, in seeking to introduce an administrative ban on participation in a demonstration, "has pursued the objective of the constitutional value of safeguarding public order". It is the scope of this prohibition that has been censored. The Constitutional Council therefore, in a way, invited the legislator to review its copy. That is precisely what we want to do tonight by submitting this bill. If the abolition amendment that is about to be considered were to be adopted, I would conclude that those who make speeches in which they affirm their support for peaceful demonstrators and their willingness to fight against troublemakers, breakers and black blocs are, in fact, satisfied with the current status quo, which is only a state of cowardice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-25-O1216.u22	I now call the articles of the bill in the text originally before the House, since the committee has not adopted any text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-25-O1216.u23	Amendment No 23 by Mrs Patricia Mirallès to delete the single article is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-25-O1216.u24	Defended by who?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-25-O1216.u25	[[Exclaims on the benches of the IDU-I group]] As part of the state of health emergency, Mrs Mirallès was a member of the "La République en marche" group and was defended by one of the members of the group.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-25-O1216.u26	That's the rules!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-25-O1216.u27	You have the right to speak, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-25-O1216.u28	I call Mr Sacha Houlié to support the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-25-O1216.u29	Since we are invited to do so, I am pleased to defend the amendment to delete this article, because I am totally opposed to the arguments put forward by the rapporteur. I object, not for constitutional or legal reasons, even if they are real, given the clearly disproportionate nature of your proposal, which the Constitutional Council has already stressed – you would be the first to reproach us for presenting a text that is not likely to pass the filter of the constitutional judge – but for substantive reasons. As I indicated in committee, Marie-George Buffet and I have tabled an information report in which we have studied at length the provisions on administrative stage bans, which are based on the provisions you propose. We were of the view that these prohibitions were already disproportionate and seriously infringing on the freedoms of individuals. What is valid for football fans is even more valid for demonstrators. You also invoke an argument that may seem obvious by stressing the need to act against black blocs. But the latter, precisely, are neither controlled nor referred, because they disperse in demonstrations and cannot be called upon. The argument that they will be subject to the administrative ban on demonstrations is therefore wrong, because it is precisely they who escape from the police, despite the efforts of the Ministry of the Interior to prosecute, arrest or prevent them from harming them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-25-O1216.u30	So we let them do it?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-25-O1216.u31	Exactly, that's all they're offering!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-25-O1216.u32	The text you are defending is not only a serious violation of freedoms, but also an inoperative one. That is why I am totally unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-25-O1216.u33	On Amendment No 23, I have a request for a public vote before the independent UDI Group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-25-O1216.u34	First of all, the committee rejected the deletion amendment. I shall therefore, of course, express an unfavorable opinion. Mr Houlié, you cannot say that the administrative ban on demonstrations is by nature an attack on freedoms. First, it already exists and no one has questioned its principle – yet again, that it remains a mere derogation from the rule normally applicable, according to which it is up to the judicial judge to issue a ban on demonstrations. Secondly, I do not make a parallel between the anti-hooligan measures – if we can call them that – and the solution we intend to promote to fight against black blocs. You explain that we can't apprehend them. Does that mean that we let them do it? No! On the contrary, we are trying to expand the legal arsenal available to law enforcement and intelligence agencies. I would point out, for example, that experiments are under way in the field of genetic tracing of people who conceal their faces in public space. Combined with other measures, they could help identify them and thus put them out of order to harm. That is the principle that we are defending, and that your group chairman also supported when he was Minister of the Interior. It was also the content of the law of 10 April 2019 that you yourself voted, without including the precautions we took to comply with the decision of the Constitutional Council. A little intellectual coherence, ladies and gentlemen! What you defended at the time was much more infringing on the freedoms that you claim to defend today than is the device that we propose. Don't delete this article! Instead, take part in the substantive debate on the provisions that are before you that could create an indispensable legal framework for law enforcement to better combat black blocs.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-25-O1216.u35	The Deputy Minister for Citizenship has the floor to give the Government's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-25-O1216.u36	He is in favour of the deletion amendment, for the reasons I mentioned earlier. I do not want the debate to lock its participants in two contradictory caricatureal positions: to vote in favour of this bill or to be cowardly lax who tolerate black blocs. The reality is that all the services of the Ministry of the Interior – law enforcement, intelligence services, etc. – are mobilized, under the authority of the Minister of the Interior and mine, to question the breakers as soon as possible. As I mentioned earlier, the black blocks, as everyone knows, have the particularity of not declaring themselves in prefecture. The proposed provisions therefore seem to us to be ineffective. Beyond the problem of constitutionality that has been raised – and I hear the objections that we could take this risk, even if it seems to me that the legislator must be the guarantor of the quality of the law – there is really a problem of substance and efficiency. The adoption of this bill would not effectively strengthen the existing system.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-25-O1216.u37	Mr Michel Zumkeller has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-25-O1216.u38	I am very surprised by the attitude of our colleagues, in particular that of Sacha Houlié, who, I believe, took positions totally contrary to those he holds today and has very often supported the idea of putting black blocs out of order to harm. Is it to be inferred that these proposals were relevant when they came from Minister Castaner, but that they cease to be so when they are formulated by the IDU and independent group?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-25-O1216.u39	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-25-O1216.u40	We all share the will to curb these actions, but your speech has changed completely.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-25-O1216.u41	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-25-O1216.u42	You have taken a position in writing on this issue, saying that all this violence must be stopped! And that would suddenly not be possible anymore, because you didn't find the solution? That's not acceptable!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-25-O1216.u43	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-25-O1216.u44	That's not the point! The Constitutional Council has censored this text!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-25-O1216.u45	[[Mrs. Agnes Thill applauds]] So what? That's why we're back on it! The Constitutional Council censored your text because it was not well prepared enough. Don't make us bear the blame! Pascal Brindeau has precisely corrected these elements in order to propose a text to achieve the objective on which we all agree. How will you justify to your constituents the fact that you do not prohibit black blocs and that by adopting this amendment, you refuse to stop their actions? It will have to be explained to the French, who no longer support images of peaceful demonstrations mined by thugs who cannot be stopped.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-25-O1216.u46	Mr Sacha Houlié has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-25-O1216.u47	Accept the fact that it is not because I disagree with you that I am wrong. I wrote in a report, tabled in the office of the National Assembly and searchable by all, that I was opposed to administrative prohibitions, that they were aimed at access to the stadium or demonstrations. I find this measure disproportionate. I also argued with Minister Castaner, who could tell you how our exchange took place at the time. The law of 10 April 2019 suffered the fate that it had to suffer, that is, a censorship by the Constitutional Council. It's happy. If it were to be adopted in other circumstances, I hope that your text would suffer the same fate. That doesn't make me a laxist in favor of black blocks. I simply explain that the ban on demonstrations is not the right solution to combat violent elements and that it would also constitute too serious a violation of the freedom of many demonstrators in our country. For these two reasons, the proposed device seems to me to be both totally disproportionate and completely next to the plate: its adoption would not answer the problem, but would create new ones! On this issue, we have a difference of appreciation, which makes the public debate rich in the National Assembly, but there are not the good on the one hand and the bad on the other: there are two lines. Ours is expressed through this deletion amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-25-O1216.u48	Mr Antoine Savignat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-25-O1216.u49	[[Mr. Jean-François Eliaou protested]] [[Same movement]] I, too, am surprised at the position of the Government. The latter insists daily on the need, in order to deal with the health crisis that we are going through, to detect and isolate the sick. What is proposed in this text? To detect and isolate troublemakers in demonstrations. To pretend that we are violating the freedom to demonstrate is to suspect the prefects to make liberticide decisions. If we are not able to trust the forces of law and order and the prefects, whose decisions are subject to appeal and assessment by judges, it is that we no longer have confidence in anything and that we have nothing to do here.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-25-O1216.u50	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-25-O1216.u51	I am surprised at the treatment given at the end of the afternoon to the proposed law on unaccompanied minors, and this evening to the text on black blocs. These two major issues are of great interest to the French. It was explained earlier that about 60% of unaccompanied minors – which still represent an annual cost of €50000 per minor, obviously borne by the French taxpayer – are in fact majors, who thus run the French state and enjoy protection to which they should not be entitled. And you don't do anything! Tonight, we are looking at a text on the fight against black blocs. While the French are absolutely tired of seeing every Saturday – or at every demonstration, when it can hold one – individuals break windows and attack the forces of law and order without anyone seems to react, and when you are offered a turnkey solution, fully respectful of freedoms, since our colleague Brindeau has precisely made sure to take up the arguments of the Constitutional Council in order to circumvent them and propose a solution in accordance with the Constitution, again, you are doing nothing! You say: "Move around, there's nothing to see, we drop it: so much worse, let's go on like this, black blocks have beautiful days ahead of them"! Forgive me, but I do not understand: behind the beautiful speeches of firmness, there is no act – there is nothing at all!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-25-O1216.u52	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-25-O1216.u53	Frankly, I don't think the French will understand that.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-25-O1216.u54	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-25-O1216.u55	I would prefer that we debate the substance of the matter and spare ourselves the trial of intent. I have the greatest respect and confidence for all the prefects who are placed under my authority and that of Gérald Darmanin. I know that they are discerning in the execution of their difficult task, especially with regard to demonstrations. So I do not accept that it is claimed here that we would not trust the prefects. It seems that some of us are trying, during the examination of this bill, to lend ourselves words that we have never made: there is no question of not trusting the prefects – quite the contrary. Similarly, MP Ménard, when you accuse us of doing nothing, you fall into anathema. You reduce us to a caricatureal choice by pretending that if we do not vote in favour of this bill, we do nothing. I'm sorry, but the Department of the Interior has carefully studied this text. I challenge you to prove that only one black block would be prevented from harming if adopted. That's not true! On the one hand, the legal debate is important. No, we can't always say that we don't care about the Constitution, and what happens! The Government is committed to designing constitutional laws. On the other hand, and beyond the question of constitutionality, I understand and share your praiseworthy intention. Nobody here said we had to allow the black blocks to break everything. There is no one on the one hand who would like to protect the windows of the merchants and on the other those who would relativize the violence of the black blocs. We are obviously resolutely opposed to the actions of the black blocs, against which the 290,000 agents of the Ministry of the Interior are fighting on a daily basis. However, this bill will not prevent black blocs from harming them. That's not true. It is not by voting on a bill of general intent that results are automatically obtained. The measures provided for in this bill are not operational.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-25-O1216.u56	Well then amend! Improve!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-25-O1216.u57	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-25-O1216.u58	"The answer is still yes to the administrative ban on manifesting, framed in the light of a model we know, that of the administrative ban on stage, i.e. by defining the public concerned. You know my particular sensitivity to football fans, which my colleague Acquaviva has just mentioned – I have also asked for the creation of an information mission on this subject. The appeal against the administrative ban on manifesting, in any event, is guaranteed since it can be lodged by way of interim relief [...]" I have just quoted from the remarks made by Mr Sacha Houlié in 2019 during the examination of the proposed law on the prevention and punishment of violence during demonstrations. I did so just to tell you, in response to the arguments that you have put forward, that we have the right to change our minds. You can now consider that what you were defending yesterday is no longer relevant. On the other hand, since we have adapted our text to the grievances of the Constitutional Council, do not come to tell us that this bill would violate freedoms, even though you had voted for a text which the Constitutional Council had considered precisely as an infringement of freedoms.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-25-O1216.u59	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-25-O1216.u60	Through tonight's debate, the question is not whether this bill will be passed or not. You are contesting the effectiveness of a mechanism which was supported by the previous Minister of the Interior, who seemed to consider that this device, added to others, could, under certain conditions, prove to be effective, in particular in the light of the experiments carried out today to identify persons who resort to means of concealment. We're not saying anything else. This bill provides for a set of administrative and judicial measures, made available to the intelligence forces and services, which will enable us to catch up with the backlog we have on the black blocks. Because they're always ahead of us. In the face of administrative, judicial, intelligence or identification measures, they will always be able to use ploys and subterfuges to achieve their ends. [[Mrs. Agnes Thill applauds]] Of course, by deleting this article – since that is your wish – we will close the discussion. But the debate will continue outside Parliament and in another way. You'll be responsible, that's all I'm saying.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-25-O1216.u61	Mr Sacha Houlié has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-25-O1216.u62	It is based on Article 58(1) for a personal fact.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-25-O1216.u63	No, there's no personal fact.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-25-O1216.u64	I've just been quoted. If I cannot answer, it is no longer a parliamentary debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-25-O1216.u65	That's not what we call a personal fact. That is a matter of debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-25-O1216.u66	Madam President, you do not want to give me the floor while...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-25-O1216.u67	You've already had the floor. You wish to intervene once again on the merits. This is not the subject of a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-25-O1216.u68	I put to the vote the deletion amendment No 23.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-25-O1216.u69	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 37 Number of votes cast 37 Absolute majority 19 For adoption 25 Against 12
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-25-O1216.u70	Mr Ian Boucard's Amendment No 19 is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-25-O1216.u71	This is a request for a report on the possibility of creating an aggravating circumstance in criminal matters for any person who committed a violent act at a demonstration while the prefect had prohibited his participation. I am not in favour of this amendment because participating in a demonstration in violation of a ban on demonstrations is already an offence, punishable by six months' imprisonment and a fine of EUR 7500. As is well known, amendments to request a report are the subject of a recurring debate. With respect to this bill, I am not convinced of the need for such a request.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-25-O1216.u72	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-25-O1216.u73	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-25-O1216.u74	[[Mr Pacôme Rupin exclaimed]] Mr Sacha Houlié has the floor. I remind you, Mr President, that you must speak only on this amendment, otherwise I will be obliged to cut off the microphone.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-25-O1216.u75	As you know, Madam Chair, the doctrine of the Law Commission is to oppose any request for a report. That is why the rapporteur is, like me, against this amendment. I would simply like to make it clear to the rapporteur that I have, indeed, changed my mind. I even wrote it in a report and said it publicly in the press, so everyone can check it out. This is a position that I have affirmed and claimed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-25-O1216.u76	Next meeting, tomorrow, at 9 a.m.: Debate on the theme: "France in the face of the NBIC revolution: what place in the US-China match? "; Discussion on the report to the Government "Investing in better understanding, confiscate in order to better sanction". The meeting is adjourned.
