ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1307.u1	The next item is the debate, pursuant to Article 34(1) of the Constitution, on the motion for a resolution by Mrs Véronique Louwagie and several of her colleagues on the health coverage of illegal aliens and asylum seekers from safe countries of origin and the number of irregular aliens (No 4190).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1307.u2	In the general debate, Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1307.u3	The motion for a resolution that we are going to discuss follows on from the work I have been doing for several months on the cost of care for illegal aliens, which I recently reported to the Committee on Finance. On this occasion, Mr Olivier Véran, Minister of Solidarity and Health, was present and I will come back several times to the answer he gave me. However, I shall begin by quoting two figures. First of all, the number 11, like the number of different devices providing care to foreigners in an irregular situation. It is often mistakenly believed that this type of care is limited to state medical aid (GAM). But that is not true: at least ten other schemes exist, such as the maintenance of health insurance rights, the care in Mayotte, the care in detention centres, the permanences of access to health care, or the admission to stay for care. I will then mention the figure of 1.5 billion, like the cost, in 2019, of six of these eleven devices. This includes EUR 1 billion from the AME and EUR 500 million from five other schemes. By comparison, 1.5 billion euros is 100 million more than the annual operating budget of the Assistance publique-Hôpitaux de Marseille. I insist on that point. In committee, the Minister for Solidarity and Health thought that the amount concerned only AME. However, this represents EUR 1 billion, when five other schemes represent an additional EUR 500 million. Also in committee, the minister said that AME's expenses were "incompressible" and that migrants did not cross the Mediterranean to ask for AME. Unlike him and you, Madam Deputy Minister, I do not believe that AME's expenses are incompressible. Two components of this device can be regulated: the care basket and the flows. As you know, the basket of care offered in France is much wider than that in force in Europe. Nowhere else, I say nowhere else, can an irregular foreigner, as in France, get his ears glued or put a gastric ring. While in practice this type of care is very minority, it still appears in the AME's basket of care: it is not socially acceptable. There is also a flow problem. In December 2017, shortly after you came to power, there were 315,000 AME beneficiaries; Three years later, there are 380,000. It's more than 1,000 new beneficiaries per month – I repeat, more than 1,000 new beneficiaries per month! It's the numbers that talk. This incessant flow must be controlled,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1307.u4	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1307.u5	... but this requires a determined fight against irregular immigration. But the account is not there. In committee, the minister said that a migrant did not cross the Mediterranean to benefit from the AME. On this point, Madam Deputy Minister, the Government is both right and wrong. You are right, because those who cross the Mediterranean at the risk of their lives do not do so in order to get their ears glued, it is true. But you are wrong, because the main flow of irregular immigration is not made up of these populations. In fact, foreigners in an irregular situation are mainly persons who arrive in France legally and remain there while the validity of their visa or residence permit has expired. In this regard, I will take a simple example, set out in a decision issued in 2020 by the Defender of Rights, concerning a couple of Algerians who came to France with a child in need of care. Guess when this couple, who entered France on October 8, 2018, asked for the AME for their child? On October 10, 2018, two days after his arrival. And he got it, since the children are automatically eligible for AME. Madam Deputy Minister, when an Algerian couple files an AME application two days after their arrival in France, do you really believe that this is not an immigration for care? The President of the Republic said this himself in an interview granted on 31 May in the Sunday Journal. "If African youth don't have an economic opportunity [...], if we don't have good health systems in Africa, then they'll emigrate," said the head of state. Deputy Minister, irregular immigration for care is a reality and you know, like me, that there are abuses. It should also be noted that Olivier Véran acknowledged in committee the existence of problems with "some countries, particularly from Eastern Europe". To illustrate these abuses, I will take another concrete example. In my report, I published a note from your ministry on fraud at the AME, in which we learn that dozens of Georgians in an irregular situation "arrive in Parisian reference centres for tuberculosis". The note indicates that many of them had a prison history. Madam Deputy Minister, do you really think that the AME is meant for that? Of course, the AME is not just an abuse, but it undermines the social acceptance of such devices and increases their cost. To remedy this, our regulations are not adequate, particularly with regard to asylum seekers from safe countries of origin, i.e. where they are not at risk of persecution. This is for example the case of Armenia, Georgia or Moldova. In 2019, more than 30,000 asylum applications were filed by nationals of safe countries of origin and the acceptance rate by OFPRA – the French Office for the Protection of Refugees and Stateless Persons – was less than 7%, three times less than the overall acceptance rate for asylum applications. In some cases, this rate is even ridiculously low. In 2019, do you know how many asylum applications the OFPRA and the CNDA – National Court of Asylum – accepted out of the 468 that had been submitted by Moldovans? One. Only one asylum application was accepted out of the 468 submitted by Moldovans, i.e. an acceptance rate of 0.2%. According to you, Madam Deputy Minister, were the health expenses related to the other 467 Moldovan asylum-seekers who had been in care for months also incompressible expenses? This type of abuse also concerns another French singularity: the procedure for admission to stay for care. In the European Union, only two out of twenty-seven countries, France and Belgium, allow foreigners in an irregular situation to be regularised for a medical reason – two out of twenty-seven countries! In 2019, 30,000 foreigners held such a residence permit. Madam Deputy Minister, at a time when the hospital is suffering, why open its doors wide? I will conclude by referring to the maintenance of rights, which allows an alien whose residence permit expires to benefit from an automatic extension of his right to health insurance for at least six months, in order to cover a possible delay in the processing of his application. In principle, this mechanism is interesting, but in practice there are many difficulties. It is open to any foreigner who has three months of regular residence in the territory. In other words, if you have a valid four-month security and you fall into the irregularity upon its expiry, you will still benefit from universal disease protection for an additional six months instead of being covered by the AME. Is this, again, an incompressible expenditure? Obviously, no. It is in this context that we, the Republicans, invite the Government to act. We, the Republicans, renew our request to align the French situation with European common law. We, the Republicans, do not ask to do less than the other countries, but to do as they do, neither more nor less. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard also applauds]] Madam Deputy Minister, to denounce abuses as you do is good, but to fight them resolutely, as we propose, would be even better.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1307.u6	Mrs Perrine Goulet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1307.u7	The motion for a resolution before us this evening aims to debate the state's medical aid scheme and other mechanisms for the provision of care for illegal aliens. It follows from the report on the budgetary execution of the Health mission carried out by our colleague Véronique Louwagie in the context of the Social Spring of the Evaluation. This report denounces the French exception of health coverage for foreigners in an irregular situation and points to a high cost whose prospects of development would be worrying. The Republican Group's position on the AME is not new, since it proposes every year to drastically reduce its appropriations when considering the second part of the finance bill. The Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats cannot subscribe to this ambition and would like to reiterate its commitment to maintaining the means necessary for this noble mission, which is primarily aimed at humanitarian and public health objectives and which honours our country. Removed in 1999, the aim of the AME is to provide access to care for people in precarious legal, financial and human situations, but also – let us remember – to prevent the spread of contagious diseases to the entire population that have disappeared in our country. We can take pride in having this health arsenal, which is becoming more meaningful in the current health context. At the risk of contradicting the rapporteur, but also the extreme right, who speaks this type of language on this issue, this mechanism is by no means a French exception. Many comparative studies have shown that our European neighbours have put in place mechanisms similar to those proposed in our country. This is the case in Spain, Belgium and the Netherlands. If these countries have drawn inspiration from us, we should be proud of it. The motion for a resolution calls on the Government to substantially review the policy of medical coverage of illegal aliens in our territory. This was done in the Social Security Financing Act for 2020. This reform has involved streamlining and simplifying the management of the application process.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1307.u8	You know it's not enough!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1307.u9	It has also strengthened the fight against fraud, in order to counter their negative impact on AME's humanist ambition and social justice. We welcomed this provision at the time, as it seemed to us essential to limit to the maximum the undue benefit of this aid, which strikes its budget and brings water to the mill of its contemptors. The conditions for the award of the AME and the steps taken to benefit from it will thus be more closely monitored. For example, the filing of the form for a first AME application will have to be done at the reception of a health insurance organization. This will enable the applicant's physical presence in the territory to be verified at the time of filing his application, by comparing his identity with that declared on the file. The deadlines for this reform have been logically postponed due to the health crisis. Its entry into force on January 1st will ensure better management of this system, which we consider to be an essential part of our health care system. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group and on some benches of the LaREM group]] Therefore, the motion for a resolution on which we are to vote this evening does not appear to us to be timely or priority. It invites only to restrict, tighten and refocus at a time when human solidarity and responsibility must be our key words. For these reasons, the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats will not vote for it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1307.u10	Mr Gérard Leseul has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1307.u11	Our colleague Véronique Louwagie was rapporteur of the State Budget Health Mission and had already found that "the offer of care offered in France to foreigners in an irregular situation [was] very generous, and even too generous. " You are coming back today, dear colleague, with a motion for a resolution signed by all the Members of your political group. What's this about? Compared to total health expenditure, the cost of AME is low and stable: the AME under ordinary law costs 800 million euros, representing 0.5% of health expenditure. This is quite limited and the number of beneficiaries has been very stable since 2015, so there is no crisis. The cost per beneficiary is lower than that of other persons residing in France. Your motion for a resolution on the health coverage of illegal aliens and asylum seekers from safe countries of origin and the number of illegal aliens aims at the elimination of an offer of care and suggests that the scope of the various schemes favours irregular immigration for care which would weigh on the French health system. Such a debate cannot ignore the reality, particularly statistical, of the phenomenon of migration. Thus, the famous "migration pressure" and the talk about the massive arrivals of immigrants are more of a fantasy than a reality: France is not the country of Europe receiving the most asylum applications, so much so. In addition, state medical assistance does not infuse any "air call," contrary to what you are trying to demonstrate. In short, the spectre of the instrumentalisation of the topic of immigration is very real, to the point of questioning the choice and political significance of this debate. The demographer Hervé Le Bras provides us with figures and a very serious factual approach on the subject. In France, regular admissions – i.e. the number of residence cards distributed – show a moderate increase, from 220000 in 2010 to 260000 in 2019. Instead, the number of asylum applications increased from 600,000 per year in the 2010s to 120,000 last year; but the acceptance rate is only 40%. I would also like to take advantage of this debate to recall that in his report published in December 2018, the Defender of Rights made a worrying observation of the conditions of reception of exiles in France and pointed to "unforeseen violations of fundamental rights", including persistent obstacles to the asylum procedure and the use of "sometimes unjustified" force towards migrants. With regard to access to health rights, the acute lack of adequate information and the practices of some social security funds, apart from regulation, complicate access to health care for exiles and lead to abandonment and delays in the use of care. Since 1 January 2021, the conditions for granting State medical assistance to foreigners in an irregular situation and the steps taken to request it have changed. The AME applicant must now reside in France for at least three months from the expiry of his visa or residence permit. State medical assistance is a means of providing access to care for foreigners in an irregular situation. It is allocated under conditions of residence and resources. To request it, you have to fill out a file. Once allocated, the AME is granted for one year, the renewal to be obtained each year. Since 1 January 2021, certain non-emergency care and treatment has been provided only after nine months after admission to the AME for any new beneficiary or for anyone who has not been in receipt for more than one year. There are exceptions, of course, for both hospital and city care, but in order to benefit from it, the person must apply for prior agreement from the medical service of the health insurance: the health professional must then complete the new prior application form. By adding together the AME and a dozen other schemes, mainly financed by social security, you and your group have estimated the total cost in your explanatory statement to be at least €1.5 billion in 2020.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1307.u12	In 2019! It's in 2019, I told you!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1307.u13	No doubt, as in any system, there are abuses that must be circumscribed. However, it seems clear that you don't cross the Mediterranean on a makeshift boat because there is the AME and you want to get your ears glued...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1307.u14	I didn't say anything else!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1307.u15	... as your motion for a resolution suggests. As a reminder and to put the estimates to their fair proportion, I remind you, you who love the numbers, that tax evasion, which certainly has nothing to do with the subject,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1307.u16	Indeed, it has nothing to do with it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1307.u17	[[Protests on the benches of the LR group]] ... makes France lose 20 billion euros each year, according to the estimate of Tax Justice Network, or even 100 billion according to Bercy's trade union sources, and that there are still 471 tax niches, which should perhaps be addressed. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups. – Mrs Marie-Christine Verdier-Jouclas also applauds]] Your priorities seem to be disconnected from our values, those of the homeland of human rights. The Socialist and Related Group will not vote on your motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1307.u18	Mr Dimitri Houbron has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1307.u19	We are considering a motion for a resolution that invites the Government to take a position on the future of the health coverage of foreigners. Through this motion for a resolution, the Group of the Republicans addresses two themes: the fact that the AME takes care of the care of people in an irregular situation on French territory, including non-emergency care; the procedure for admission to stay for care, which is open to all foreigners in an irregular situation, in particular rejected asylum seekers from safe countries of origin. With regard to the AME, it should be recalled that the figures and the written facts are such as to question us whether the original objectives of this medical aid, namely to limit the risk of transmission of serious diseases, might be altered. What is at stake is not the cost of the AME, which accounts for 0.4% of the health budget, but the management of non-emergency care such as the recollation of the ears or the laying of a gastric ring. However, it should be tempered by the claim that this scheme would be devoted exclusively to comfort or minor care. First of all, according to the information report by MPs Claude Goasguen and Christophe Sirugue published in 2015, 70% of the AME's costs were due to hospital costs related to tuberculosis, HIV or caesarean delivery. Secondly, it should be pointed out that a large part of these health expenditure is paid directly by the State, but only at the social security rate. Finally, let us remember that the AME also contains exclusions: the beneficiaries must pay themselves the 150 drugs that the social security pays only 15%, such as Gaviscon, Zovirax, Hexomedine, Valium or Betadine. We can deduce from this that there are still some inconsistencies within this system of state medical aid. Indeed, this device does not finance medicines, some of which may prove indispensable, but it reimburses an operation of re-collage of the ears. The contents of this basket of care should therefore be studied,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1307.u20	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1307.u21	... in order to restore the credibility and legitimacy of this system to the French and to question the possibility of issuing a specific authorisation on a case-by-case basis for the most expensive treatments. It should be added that the question of the channels which bring in persons who are not eligible for asylum, e.g. from Georgia or Albania, deserves a thorough examination. With regard to the procedure for admission to stay for care, it should be noted that the last paragraph of Article L. 425-9 of the Code on the Entry and Residence of Aliens and the Right of Asylum (CESEDA), which emerged from the Order of 16 December 2020, states that "Every year, a report shall be submitted to Parliament on the activity carried out under this Article by the medical service of the Office and on the general data on public health collected in this context. These observations lead us to draw two lessons: the mechanism of the AME deserves a careful study to correct its inconsistencies in order not to detract from its objectives, and this study requires a government commitment that is not conditioned by an invitation voted in the form of a parliamentary resolution; Indeed, the treatment of this subject will be effective if it results from political voluntarism and not from an injunction without a future. We are confident that the Government will pay particular attention to this issue; That is why the Group of the European People's Party will vote against the adoption of this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1307.u22	Mr Jean-Christophe Lagarde has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1307.u23	The debate on health-care schemes for illegal aliens, in particular the AME, is coming back almost every year. It is the same debate, albeit passionate but especially Manichaean, between those who are simply happy to see increased spending on health care for foreigners and those who make it a forum for the so-called fight against immigration. Today, it is possible for us to get a little bit higher and to see a little clearer about it thanks to the publication of the rapporteur's work. Rather than discussing the cost, let's discuss justice and ask ourselves whether this health insurance benefits those who are supposed to benefit from it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1307.u24	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1307.u25	In all honesty, the answer is no. At first glance, how can a foreigner arriving in France find himself in eleven different devices?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1307.u26	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1307.u27	The report highlights very well the redundancy, the question marks, the material impossibility of checking a particular criterion of eligibility. National solidarity is, as too often, hampered by the technocracy and bureaucracy that we do not know how to leave. We need to streamline public policies for the health coverage of foreigners to make them more readable and accessible. Let us not be mistaken, the mechanism at the heart of the subject is the AME, the cost of which accounts for two thirds of the total cost of health insurance for foreigners. The IDU and independent group is proud that our country takes care of a person who is on our territory when he or she needs care, regardless of his or her origin, nationality, skin colour or even the conditions of his or her stay. It would be inhuman and contrary to the values of the Republic to leave these vulnerable people abandoned to their fate. However, does the doubling of the cost of AME between 2009 and today reflect a greater effectiveness of this health coverage?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1307.u28	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1307.u29	I don't believe it. Those who think we are improving things simply because public spending is increasing are naive. Once again, it is justice that we need to debate! The AME suffers from two main problems: fraud, as our colleague Pascal Brindeau has shown tremendously, and non-use of rights. The General Inspectorate of Social Affairs (IGAS) and the General Inspectorate of Finance (IGF) pointed to fraud at the AME in a report of October 2019. The authors of the report even make the fight against fraud a priority, because this fraud considerably weakens the acceptability of the scheme to the French.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1307.u30	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1307.u31	This report tells us that the verification of the identity of the third party attesting to hosting the applicant for more than three months is not systematic, and that there is no mechanism for detecting multi-hosting cases when investigating the records. The authors add that too little information is issued on the applicant's geographical route, reducing the ability to verify the three-month residency requirement in the territory. A significant part of the AME cards is withdrawn by the beneficiary several months after notification of the decision by the Primary Health Insurance Fund (CPAM), suggesting that in some cases the person resides in his or her country of origin and provides for a return to France and withdrawal from the AME card only when he or she needs care. At the same time, non-use of rights would also be very high. This is particularly true for the use of AME. According to a study by the Institute for Research and Documentation in Health Economics (IRDES), only 51%, or barely more than half, of the people eligible for it benefit from the AME. So where does the price boom come from? If half of the eligible persons do not benefit from it and spending continues to increase, this means that a large number of AME beneficiaries are not entitled to it. We see an exponential increase in the number of beneficiaries of the AME, which goes hand in hand with an increase in fraud found by the IGAS itself. At the same time, a very serious study of IRDES indicates that barely one in two people eligible for AME is asking for it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1307.u32	As a result, the AME has become an unfair service that needs to be reformed with real ambition, both to enable those entitled to benefit effectively from it and to drive away the fraudsters who loot our health care system and cast discredit on our health coverage policy.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1307.u33	[[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] This is what the IDU and independent group expects from the Government before the end of the quinquennium: a real reform that will restore credibility, faith and acceptability to the French of a system that should honour France by saving those who need it when they are suffering from a disease, but without allowing those who cheat, fraud and deceive to take advantage of it, and thus undermine the social pact of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1307.u34	Mr Sebastien Nadot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1307.u35	I would like to thank the Members of the Group of the European People's Party for putting on the agenda of this House the extremely important question of migrants and for showing, through their very political motion for a resolution, the worst way to deal with the subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1307.u36	While migration is and will be one of the major challenges of our century, we can only despair that the debate in our country continues to be so badly debated. The motion for a resolution is in line with a vision of immigration that has prevailed in France since Nicolas Sarkozy's quinquennium. It is the idea that immigration is a problem in itself and that, as in the face of the plague, we should be locked behind impassable walls, being convinced that foreigners – preferably black or Arab – are the cause of all our evils.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1307.u37	To believe that migratory flows could be tarnished as we cut water by closing the tap is pure illusion, and therefore pure lie. Whether it is the result of war, economic misery, political repression or environmental degradation, migration is currently inevitable; They are historically old and necessary for nations to prosper, as long as they are managed with good reason and in accordance with the principles of the rule of law and fundamental rights. There will be no more immigration to France, ladies and gentlemen, when our country replaces Yemen, the Central African Republic and Venezuela in the ranking of world misery.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1307.u38	No, immigration is not a problem; immigration is a fact, a major fact of our century that we must deal with with with reason and dignity. The problem is our unworthy immigration policies, their total failure and the dramatic impasse that led us to the Ministry of Immigration, Integration and National Identity set up by President Nicolas Sarkozy. The problem is the inability of President François Hollande to measure the consequences of the war in Syria and the abandonment of Angela Merkel's Germany in a raven campaign – capable of extracting herself from the ideology of her camp in order to receive the hundreds of thousands of refugees in dignity. The problem is French cowardice, in line with most of the countries of the Union, of rejecting all the responsibilities – which are also ours – on Europe in general or, more directly, on Hungary or Poland, at the same time abandoning the countries of arrival, namely Greece, Italy, Malta and Spain, to their difficulties. The problem is the escalation towards nothingness that stirs sad passions by activating the theory of foreign scapegoat, in a guilty follow-up of the extreme right.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1307.u39	Because the debate on immigration is decidedly ill-placed in our country, the Freedom and Territory Group wanted to launch a parliamentary committee of inquiry on migration, which I have the honour to chair. We firmly believe that the crisis of welcoming migrants to France has become a crisis of human dignity and that a society cannot indefinitely turn its gaze away from violations of human dignity without suffering directly or insidiously the evils. It is not only an economic, social or security cost, but also a moral cost with deeper consequences.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1307.u40	Instead of undergoing migration in the spirit of a besieged fortress to the detriment of all, migrants as well as French, by multiplying to the point of nausea the violations of our values and our most fundamental principles in order, it is believed, to deter migrants from coming on our soil, we would do better to resolutely adopt the opposite approach. We would do better to manage with all the humanity that is in our power the reception of these women, men and children who leave their country to come to Europe. We would do much better, too, to prevent as much as possible the journeys of danger through deserts, seas and oceans through a genuine partnership policy with the countries of emigration.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1307.u41	So, with the idea of reducing the medical assistance to migrants that is going through your motion for a resolution, I answer that, on the contrary, we need to improve as much as possible the health facilities for foreigners. I say this for two reasons: firstly, because in France neither the absence of a right to stay nor the illegal occupation of a site cannot deprive a person of the enjoyment of the most fundamental rights such as the right to be housed, to be treated, to be educated, to seek asylum or not to be subjected to inhuman or degrading treatment; Secondly, because the public health of a country is measured by the quality of care provided to the most vulnerable – and migrants are for many of them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1307.u42	[[Applause on the benches of the LT and SOC groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, rather than turning a furious finger to the poorest, we must understand the reasons for our collective failure in terms of migration policy. The suffering human being cannot continue to be our scapegoat.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1307.u43	Mrs Bénédicte Taurine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1307.u44	In a post-covid period where priority is given to mitigating the effects of the crisis on the most vulnerable, what surprising proposition that of our colleagues The Republicans, who attack the health coverage of those who are forced to leave their country of origin to live better! The political agenda on the right is therefore not moved by this period, since it focuses on restricting the health coverage of people in an irregular situation and asylum seekers.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1307.u45	The dangerous climate prevailing in France on the issues of security and stigmatization of a certain section of the population is reflected in this motion for a resolution. We therefore have to debate a new cut in the reception and assistance arrangements of those who arrive in our territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1307.u46	Demagogy would make us believe that these people spend their days in emergencies taking advantage of our health care system. One figure, which speaks of itself, suffices to discredit this stigma: the rate of non-use of the device is 49%, that is, one in two people does not use the possibility given to them to access the path of care. This is the case for 48% of people with respiratory diseases, and up to 64% of people with diabetes.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1307.u47	Moreover, it is to be forgotten that treating people on French territory is a necessity for public health and that any restriction would be absolutely counterproductive. In fact, city medicine care avoids waiting for a deterioration of health status and thus allows a reduction in cost compared to late care – if your goal is there rather than in the health of people, but you also miss it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1307.u48	Making such a proposal is evidence of political inconsistency. It is to ignore all foresights on such a fundamental issue as that of health within the whole of society: according to researchers from the University of Bordeaux, Dauphine and the Institute for Research and Documentation in Health Economics, any measure aimed at limiting the rights offered by state medical aid under common law in order to combat illegal immigration or to drastically reduce the health expenditure covered by the AME would certainly miss its target. The risk, on the other hand, would be to endanger the health of a population.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1307.u49	How, through this motion for a resolution, can you wish to refocus the AME on emergency care alone, as in other EU states? This is once again the admission of a lack of knowledge which is not worthy of the rigour of the debates which we should have here, because the European countries already provide, in various ways, for the care of non-emergency care.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1307.u50	The motion for a resolution also expresses the desire to strengthen statistics on persons in an irregular situation, on the nationality of the beneficiaries of the AME and on the pathologies treated. This claim does not meet any need on the part of researchers, who already have the bulk of the necessary data. The General Inspectorate of Social Affairs states that the analysis of data from the National Health Insurance Fund (CNAM) and the Technical Agency for Hospital Information and hospital records give a typology of pathologies. As for statistics related to nationality, data from different hospital centres and the recent "First Steps" survey already point to a distribution by nationality.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1307.u51	Finally, the motion for a resolution cites examples of non-essential care funded by the AME, such as the re-coupling of the ears or the laying of a gastric ring. These examples you quote end up immerse the motion for a resolution in the most complete amateurism: although this care is theoretically taken care of, the statistical samples analysed by the General Inspectorate of Social Affairs and the General Inspectorate of Finance have not presented any cases of such surgery.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1307.u52	What does this motion for a resolution fail to say in conclusion? It is symptomatic of a political agenda that has become hostage to an overbidding on foreigners that we will not endorse. We will therefore vote against your resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1307.u53	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1307.u54	Everyone knows what a chestnut tree is: it is when journalists have no news to get under the tooth and therefore come back, every year or every three months, on news without any taste or particular interest. On this question served in such a way as to stir up the opinion of the counter, we have already heard everything. However, the timetable for his re-election to the agenda by our colleagues The Republicans is of particular cynicism.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1307.u55	In the midst of a global pandemic that has already caused several million deaths and significantly increased the degree of insecurity and poverty, at a time when the controversy is continuing on the issue of vaccines and their delivery to the least developed countries on a backdrop of international tensions still alive in major parts of the world – Middle East, sub-Saharan Africa – and globally, wherever the advance of the climatic upheavals that are disrupting the ecological and social systems is becoming more and more dangerous, this issue is coming back to the Chamber, and you rest on the provocative question of whether we should ensure the health protection of people without rights or title whose lives on our territory have failed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1307.u56	I will therefore repeat what I have already said to one of your colleagues and recall the position of the Judeo-Christian moral authorities, of which you are often the source of inspiration for your public action – I am not talking about the Pope's Fratellitutti: out of fraternity and solidarity, these arrangements ensure the reception of the other regardless of the current administrative procedures concerning him. Why should these rights be further refocused, tightened and restricted, even though the Government preceded you in this endeavour by changing the conditions of access on 1 January?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1307.u57	Some figures, although we obviously have very different figures from each other: out of 225,000 residence permits issued in 2018, only 2% were issued for medical reasons; Of these 2 %, only 1 % were identified as fraud. The AME represents an expenditure of €950 million, or 0.4% of health insurance expenditure. At the same time, you know very well that ensuring access to primary care helps to limit as much as possible complications that are a source of heavier care, because more urgent, which are paid in full by hospitals, with little chance of being reimbursed by social security.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1307.u58	In this brief debate, Madam Minister, we are asking for an assessment of the provisions on access to care promoted by your government and which came into force on 1 January. Access to health care is one of the pillars of compliance with European and international humanitarian conventions which enshrine the right to health security and health. In conclusion, do not count on the group of the Democratic and Republican Left to endorse the game of the barbichette to which the straight people continue to play – I say "the" straight – from the top of the pavement,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1307.u59	This has nothing to do with us!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1307.u60	[[Applause on the SOC and FI benches]] ... with this political debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1307.u61	Mrs Mireille Robert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1307.u62	We are gathered this evening to address an issue that is at the heart of our model of hospitality, integration and public health. We welcome, Mrs Louwagie, your commitment to the Health Mission of the Finance Bill, of which you are rapporteur every year. However, our approaches to state medical aid regularly oppose each other. Three years ago, for example, you already tabled a motion for a resolution on improving the evaluation of State medical aid, in order to enrich and make public the figures relating to the medical aid of the common state, in particular with regard to the profile of the beneficiaries. We are convinced that the improvement of information about the AME helps to combat the misconceptions and sometimes nauseating shortcuts that are circulating about this service. In June 2019, the Government entrusted a mission to IGAS, whose report served as the basis for the reform that the majority defended during the review of the finance bill for 2020. Today, your group is again presenting a motion for a resolution on this subject. While we agree with some of the findings of your last report on the Health Mission, particularly regarding the need for transparency, knowledge of the amount of certain expenses, improvement of the efficiency of the system, we believe that some of your assertions should be handled with great caution and we do not share your conclusions. Like you, we have at our heart the proper budgetary execution of the appropriations we vote on every year. In fact, you noted in the same report as in the case of AME, the effort of budgetary sincerity for the years 2019 and 2020 continued for 2021. You mention the discharge of the State's debt in respect of health insurance, but the majority work well with respect for all the actors involved in the financing of our health care system. You regret the delays in implementing the reform of the AME; I'm telling you, the pandemic has changed a lot. Our majority has chosen solidarity with all to preserve everyone's health. It would have been absurd to remove the rights of some AME beneficiaries in the midst of a pandemic, while the populations concerned are the most vulnerable and at risk.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1307.u63	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1307.u64	The explanatory memorandum to your motion for a resolution expresses the idea that our health care system would be put at risk by immigration and by asylum applications motivated by the French authorities in terms of access to health care. Yet, is slavery in Libya and death in the Mediterranean Sea, with women and children, at risk for that? I doubt it. Do we cross Europe on foot, fleeing a country at war, because we heard that there, in France, we don't pay for it? You know you don't. You want to refocus the AME on emergency care alone and restrict access to the expired rights retention device. You also call for the abolition of the maintenance of social rights provided for in Article L. 433-3 of the CESEDA. Should we remind once again in this Chamber that the AME is the cornerstone of our health policy for the most deprived people in an irregular situation? Refocusing the care basket on urgent care alone has no economic meaning. This would place more critical care on our hospital system, as people would have access to care in more serious situations. The subject is cardinal in health policies: it is known that poverty has caused diseases such as tuberculosis to start again. Is it better to prevent or let go of epidemic outbreaks because the visit – which you call "comfort" and which I call "primary care" – is not financially accessible? Removing care is never a good idea for budget and public health. Moreover, contrary to what you say, AME is not a French exception. Spain, Portugal, Italy and Sweden offer people in an irregular situation health coverage that goes far beyond urgent care. As regards the maintenance of social rights, I stress that it is first and foremost a matter of avoiding any breach of law and taking into account the administrative period, for people who are integrated as they work. For them, removing this mechanism would have adverse consequences. We put our ideas into action, following a line: efficiency, respecting the principles of our Republic, respecting the generosity of France, without which many of us, on these benches, would not be here. That is the meaning of our action. Two years ago, we already changed the conditions for access to health coverage for foreigners in an irregular situation – both the conditions for granting state medical aid and the procedures for requesting it. The applicant must reside in France for at least three months from the expiry of the visa or residence permit; he must file his application directly at the reception of a health insurance body. Since 1 January 2021, the device allows verification of the applicant's physical presence in the territory when filing his application, comparing his identity with that declared in the application file. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and FI groups]] For all these reasons, and out of commitment to the humanism of our health model, the Group of the European People's Party will reject this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1307.u65	Mr Bruno Bilde has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1307.u66	In France, the health supply offered to foreigners in an irregular situation is very generous; She's too much. Through eleven different schemes, care is provided without any financial contribution to 500,000 beneficiaries, at an estimated minimum cost of EUR 1.5 billion. No other country in Europe allows an illegal person to benefit from surgery aimed at regluing his ears or setting up a gastric ring. Until 2011, AME beneficiaries even had access to thermal treatments. In many European countries, the scope of care offered to illegal immigrants is limited to the management of pathologies requiring urgent care. Only France now offers such a wide health coverage, "whatever it costs". A beneficiary of the AME costs on average 3300 euros, compared to 2900 euros for a Frenchman. Today, 20% of French people give up dental and optical care and almost one in three French people admit that they have given up care for financial reasons.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1307.u67	Oh, that's unbearable!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1307.u68	It is necessary to put an end to the AME, a French exception which constitutes an air appeal for a health immigration which is clearly not a marginal phenomenon. More than a quarter of illegal aliens would cite care as one of the reasons for their migration. Many doctors denounce the logic of health tourism that drives these patients. The health crisis has highlighted a very large number of failures in our health care system, despite the total commitment of caregivers. The budget for AME continues to grow exponentially. The explosion of expenditure under the AME can no longer be reasonably borne by public finances, i.e. by the money of the French, who are more and more likely to have to give up care for financial reasons.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1307.u69	Stop!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1307.u70	Through this motion for a resolution, some members of the opposition finally seem to open their eyes to the misuse of a system that we have been denouncing for so long. For many years, it has been known that the real cost of the AME and the various medical aids for foreigners in an irregular situation is far greater than the amount budgeted by successive governments, both on the right and on the left. Despite the speeches and postures of some of its representatives, the party The Republicans – formerly the UMP, the Union for a People's Movement – never called into question this mechanism, the cost of which has increased every year during Nicolas Sarkozy's quinquennium. The report by IGAS and IGF, which is the basis for this motion for a resolution, has the merit of highlighting the number and scope of health facilities available to illegal immigrants. They represent a considerable burden for both the State budget and the health insurance budget. Their diversion is an aspirational pump for illegal immigration. This study also makes it possible to re-evaluate the number of foreigners in an irregular situation in our territory: they would be at least 500,000, which is very far from the official figures. In the face of these overwhelming findings, the National Rally is not simply asking the Government to initiate a reflection on the AME and the various mechanisms for maintaining social rights for illegal foreigners. We must immediately remove the AME and all the mechanisms promoting illegal immigration, which are unbearable injustices towards the most modest French people.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1307.u71	The general discussion is closed. On the motion for a resolution, I have a request from the Group of the European People's Party for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mrs Brigitte Bourguignon, Minister Delegate to the Minister for Solidarity and Health, responsible for autonomy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1307.u72	Mrs Louwagie, the motion for a resolution that you have placed on the agenda of this sitting concerns a series of measures relating to the health coverage of illegal aliens and asylum seekers. In particular, you are considering restricting the AME's basket of care to urgent care only; the collection by the health insurance of data relating to the nationality and pathologies of the beneficiaries of the AME; the revision of the conditions for access to the scheme for the maintenance of expired rights to universal disease protection (PUMA) and to complementary health care (C2S); Amendment of the health protection of asylum seekers from so-called "safe" countries of origin. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make it clear that the changes that this motion for a resolution intends to make to the health coverage of people in an irregular situation do not seem appropriate to me. They present a risk from a purely health point of view, they are uneconomic from a financial point of view and they would be poorly operated in practice. First of all, restricting the AME's basket of care, as you seem to be considering, is not – I insist – an effective measure of expenditure control. This would lead to congestion in hospital services and increase the burden borne by public expenditure, as a result of the care in hospital of aggravated pathologies. This debate has already taken place during the Spring of the evaluation and hearings prior to the consideration of the finance bill. The AME promotes the use of city care and allows to take care of pathologies upstream of their worsening, and therefore, at a lesser cost,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1307.u73	Is that why the expenses explode?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1307.u74	... while significantly reducing the health risks to the population as a whole. For example, Spain, after limiting access to care for people in an irregular situation in 2012, observed a 15% increase in the death rate of migrants and a significant deterioration in the prevalence of certain infections, including a sharp increase in cases of hepatitis B. No one in this House wants to see this situation occur in our country. In addition, measures to tighten the AME basket of essential care have already been taken. Let me remind you that the AME does not cover princeps medicines – those of the big brands, if you allow me the expression – medicines "with medical service rendered weak", the acts necessary for the realization of medical aid to procreation or even thermal cures. AME is not comfort, it is a requirement of humanity, it is an imperative of public health.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1307.u75	In addition, since 1 January 2021, we have made it a nine-month seniority period for certain non-essential scheduled benefits to AME beneficiaries, such as the placement of hearing implants or knee or shoulder prostheses you mentioned, as well as the health transport related to these acts. On the other hand, I will never apologize for the fact that we are accompanying the care of young children. It's all the honor of our country. Finally, contrary to the ideas received, France is no more generous than its neighbours. Other Member States of the European Union allow people in an irregular situation to have access, beyond emergency care, to routine care – sometimes under more flexible conditions than those in our country. This is the case in Spain, where evidence of a low level of resources is not requested as it is in France, or in Italy, where the residence requirement is not verified. You want health insurance to be able to collect data on the nationalities and pathologies of AME applicants and beneficiaries. But the role of our health workers is to treat! They do it with dedication, and I want to pay tribute to them. We would do no good to anyone by engulfing their work through administrative control while all our action aims to relieve them to the maximum of these burdens. Moreover, such a provision would contravene the principle of minimization enshrined in the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), according to which the need to collect such data must be justified in view of the purposes of the proposed processing. There are two very distinct objectives. In addition, the way in which such data are collected raises questions. Neither the CNAM nor the CPAM collects data on the nationality and pathologies of the beneficiaries of the AME. If it is envisaged that they will be collected through health professionals, the question of a derogation from medical confidentiality as provided for in the Public Health Code may arise. The law could be more precise on this point, in order to enable public health studies to be conducted in accordance with medical confidentiality. Finally, a legislative provision would not in itself allow the processing of the data envisaged by this motion for a resolution. The implementation of such a system should be the subject of a decree in the Council of State, which, after consulting the National Commission on Informatics and Freedoms (CNIL), would specify the essential characteristics of the treatment. It is therefore a sensitive subject which has been referred to the Directorate of Legal Affairs of the Ministry of Solidarity and Health. I have no doubt that the next review of the finance bill will provide an opportunity to continue this exchange. With regard to the revision of the conditions for access to the system for the maintenance of expired rights to PUMA and C2S, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the conditions for access to this system derive from the conditions for affiliation to PUMA. The benefit of this coverage is subject to the pursuit of a professional activity or to a stable and regular residence in France, and it is not envisaged to change these criteria. Secondly, the rules for the maintenance of UPMA's rights were tightened on 1 January 2020, with the period during which illegal aliens may benefit from the maintenance of their health insurance rights having increased from 12 to 6 months. This reform allows a fair balance to be struck between the prevention of possible breaks in access to care due to the delays in the renewal of the securities, and the maintenance for an excessive period of time of health insurance coverage of persons who no longer fulfil the conditions necessary to benefit from it. Moreover, the health insurance funds have strengthened their control to prevent situations of maintenance of rights that would last beyond. In addition, you are proposing to adapt or even abolish the rights retention scheme provided for by CESEDA. This allows us to overcome the difficulties encountered by certain prefectures in renewing residence permits over time. It concerns specific residence permits, for which an application for renewal has been made, and applies, for some of them, only in the departments whose list is fixed by decree. For a period of three months from the expiry of the residence permit, the person thus retains his or her right to pursue a professional activity and all his or her social rights – social assistance, family benefits, social security, unemployment rights, and so on. The system for the maintenance of rights provided for in the Social Security Code is more specific. It only concerns PUMA and, where appropriate, C2S. The procedure applies to all documents and residence permits allowing access to PUMA in all departments. Since the two mechanisms are different and do not have the same objectives, they are not intended to converge. Finally, the motion for a resolution you are defending provides for a change in the health protection of asylum seekers from safe countries of origin. Differentiating the level of health protection for asylum-seekers according to their country of origin would be a serious violation of the principle of equality to which we are of course all committed. This would be contrary to our European and international commitments. The grounds for the asylum application need not be taken into account in the allocation of health insurance. Asylum seekers must have access to the care they need. In addition to respect for the right to health, care for them is part of a logic of public health and prevention of health risks. Ladies and gentlemen, the provisions of this motion for a resolution raise questions of principle to which the Government remains committed. It is all the easier for me to oppose them because they suffer from major weaknesses. Their financial and health interests remain limited and the existing legal and regulatory framework does not allow for their practical implementation. We are therefore against it. (Applause from the LaREM Group. – Mrs Marguerite Deprez-Audebert also applauds.)
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1307.u76	In explanation of vote, I call Mr Eric Ciotti.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1307.u77	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] First of all, let me stress the remarkable quality of the work done by our colleague Véronique Louwagie in the Committee on Finance. It has just brought clear and worrying figures to the national representation. These figures inform our assembly and will also inform the country on the evolution of the arrangements for the care of sickness benefits for foreigners in an irregular situation. They also show the huge increase – 20%! – the number of foreigners in an irregular situation in our country. In fact, Véronique Louwagie pointed out that 315,000 illegal aliens present in the national territory benefited from the AME in 2017; There are 380,000 of them now. This is one indicator among others of the increase in the presence of foreigners in an irregular situation in France. We are far from the Government's official speech on this subject, as our group reminded us this afternoon by Olivier Marleix. It is this reality that the motion for a resolution highlights. The Republican Group, which endorsed Véronique Louwagie's remarkable approach, will support it. While these issues are not new, it has to be noted that since the creation of the AME by the Act of 27 July 1999, the number of beneficiaries has been increasing steadily and government spending has increased considerably every year, but has not been curbed. Beyond the AME, Véronique Louwagie recalled the eleven problematic devices. Madam Deputy Minister, you have just referred to the maintenance of rights at the expiry of residence permits, particularly through PUMA. The figures are also very worrying from a budgetary point of view. That is why the Finance Committee, under the authority of President Eric Woerth, has dealt with it. Indeed, 1.5 billion euros are spent on all these schemes, with the 2021 finance law providing for a credit of just over 1 billion euros for the AME, compared to 500 million euros in 2010! As early as 2013, the Court of Auditors had been concerned about this unsustainable budget. Nothing has been done, neither by your government, nor, of course, by the precedent under the presidency of François Hollande – there is a form of continuity. At the same time, there is a growing number of frauds – a situation reported by many healthcare professionals. In their recent report, IGF and IGAS indicate that migration for care is clearly not a marginal phenomenon. It is therefore urgent to combat these frauds and Véronique Louwagie has given very relevant leads for these purposes. There are indeed organized channels for arrivals to France for the sole purpose of treating certain pathologies. That is one of the points of demand that we make with this resolution: we must reduce the basket of care, which is much more generous than that of our neighbours. On this point, we are contesting your comments, Madam Minister Delegate – and we are not contesting them, but the IGF and IGAS, in their October 2019 report, point out that the French system of care for foreigners in an irregular situation is the most generous in Europe. The reality is there!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1307.u78	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1307.u79	We therefore call for such care to be reduced to an emergency. There is, of course, a need to treat people who are in a vital emergency; This is part of the duty of a democratic country, and far from the idea of abolishing any arrangements for taking care of the emergency. But there is a huge gap between this generosity and its consequences: it is indeed a source of fraud and a very worrying budgetary drift. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] For these reasons, our group will support this motion for a resolution which presents very relevant solutions in order to stop this drift.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1307.u80	Mr Gérard Leseul has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1307.u81	Health coverage and AME are part of a legal framework consisting of France's variously binding international commitments, European law and several decisions of the Constitutional Council and the Council of State. This framework clearly defines a minimum base of care for foreigners in an irregular situation, particularly for emergency situations and the most vulnerable populations – minors and pregnant women. Despite this legal basis common to all the Member States of the European Union, the French system appears singular, both in its logic of opening rights and in the definition of a basket of care close to those of common law. These singularities stem from the specificities of the French care system, which is also one of the most transparent in terms of public expenditure. Your motion for a resolution would probably have gained more from the work of the IGAS you mentioned, but also and above all from the main actors in helping migrants, who could have given you concrete information about the reality. [[Mrs Bénédicte Taurine applauds]] A subject of recurrent controversy, the AME granted to foreigners in an irregular situation is for us the humanist response that refers to the French values and greatness that you cherish elsewhere. The Socialist and Related Group will vote against your motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1307.u82	Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1307.u83	Allow me to pay tribute to the work of the many foreigners on national soil. They were on the front line during the crisis, the first ropes that allowed us to comfortably settle in our cozy homes, to be supplied, cared for, protected. We applauded them every night at 8 p.m. because they are among the caregivers. We saw them every morning at dawn, cleaning our streets and picking up our garbage. Too often, these women, these men and their children are undocumented, locked in an in-between, in a space that does not allow them to build a future with us and to build the France of tomorrow. Dear colleagues of the Republicans Group, you are quoting figures, but you are not quoting the right ones. You do not mention the figures of a France that no longer knows how to integrate, of a France that is not up to the level, in terms of the integration and reception of foreigners, of countries similar to ours in Europe – Germany, Poland, Italy, Spain. You also do not mention the figures that clearly show that if there is spending on foreign people on our soil, if there is a cost, there is a lot of revenue. All the economists' figures show that. We have seen it again recently: if France does not make the decision to live up to its appointment with foreigners, especially those who ask us to be integrated and to be part of it by simply having papers, it will recede; Some figures show that. Without the immigration we have experienced, today we would have exactly the same population as in 1981, i.e. 55 million inhabitants; We would not be the country we are, this economic power and this strength in Europe. If only for this, let us remember the contribution of foreign people. [[Mr. Sébastien Nadot applauds]] I solemnly say: we are not up to what we owe them, especially those who are waiting for their integration, who are waiting for papers, who are waiting to build their lives and to establish their descendants, like many of our parents and grandparents, in the service of France. Some of these descendants are playing the football game against Germany tonight and they're going to win.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1307.u84	Thanks for the prognosis. Mrs Bénédicte Taurine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1307.u85	Like various parliamentary groups, we consider that the reduction of AME would be counterproductive in terms of public health. This motion for a resolution aims only to stigmatise part of the population and to create a harmful climate for foreigners for purely electoral purposes. We will therefore vote against it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1307.u86	Mrs Mireille Robert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1307.u87	I will not go back to all the elements I have already outlined; You have understood that the LaREM Group will not support the motion for a resolution. It is not a good policy to suggest that immigration would put an unbearable burden on the health care system or that immigrants would come to France to steal care from the French. I say again: one does not risk his life on a makeshift boat in the Mediterranean for free access to care. One risks his life, that of his family and of his children, because misery pushes to do so, because one wants to live with dignity and hope is in this other place that European societies represent. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] The majority has acted to regulate immigration and continues to do so. To improve control, we have framed the conditions for access to the AME; going beyond that would pose a potential public health risk. But we do not believe that there is a need to instrumentalize and distil false ideas about AME, which is satisfying by achieving prevention objectives for the health of the most vulnerable populations. Limiting access to urgent care alone would certainly lead to the subsequent explosion of expenditure; This is contrary to public health protection objectives and budgetary interest. We will therefore vote against it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1307.u88	I put to the vote the single article in the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1307.u89	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 67 Number of votes cast 67 Absolute majority 34 For adoption 25 Against 42
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1307.u90	Next sitting, tomorrow, at 3 p.m.: Bill to regulate the budget and approve the accounts for the year 2020; Debate on recovery measures. The meeting is adjourned.
