ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u1	The next item is the debate on the bill to combat school harassment (No. 4658, 4712).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u2	Mr Erwan Balanant, rapporteur of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u3	No less than 700000: this is the number of child victims, each year, of school harassment. They are all children who lose confidence in themselves, in their comrades, who lose confidence in the school institution and ultimately in society. This often translates into a school drop-out but also a social one. We cannot allow these children to stay away from the Republic because they have been harassed by a comrade or by an adult in the school. While the phenomenon is not new, it is now significantly exacerbated by the development of new information and communication technologies, which offer new opportunities and new ways of harassing. Social networks and messaging groups increase the ability of attackers to reach their victims. The group effects, which can be a powerful spring of school harassment, are also amplified by the particular modalities of cyber-harassment. With social media, harassment no longer has a time or place limit. He doesn't give our children any more respite. The phenomenon is even more evident with the health crisis and the increased use of digital tools as a means of communication between young people or an instrument of continuity of teaching. A number of recent reports, including the one I submitted to the Government in October 2020, the Senate's fact-finding mission on school harassment and cyber-harassment, and the Human Rights Defender, call for greater attention to school harassment in public policies. The law of 26 July 2019 for a school of trust gave for the first time a legislative expression to the awareness generated by school harassment. Article L. 511-3-1 of the Education Code now states: "No pupil shall be subjected, on the part of other pupils, to acts of harassment which have as their object or effect a deterioration in his or her learning conditions which may affect his or her rights and dignity or impair his or her physical or mental health. » But government action against school harassment is not limited to the adoption of laws. It focuses on the day-to-day work of the many stakeholders, as close as possible to the victims, witnesses and perpetrators of such acts. The actions undertaken over the past decade have been amplified and widespread for the past four years, and I thank you, Mr. Minister of Education. In order to complement and sustain the instruments of this struggle, it is essential to include its main objectives and modalities in the law. We must do our part, take our responsibility as legislators and define the legal framework that empowers public authorities. This text is not, as I have heard on the socialist benches, a law of emotion; It is the result of a long work of legal analysis and a political choice assumed. We must ensure better prevention of situations that undermine the confidence of children and young people in themselves, towards the school and university institution and ultimately towards society as a whole. For this reason, the main aim of this bill is to provide the entire educational community, including pupils, teachers, supervisory staff, social workers, nurses, psychologists and school doctors, parents of pupils, with the means to prevent situations of harassment in schools more effectively. Article 1e r thus has a twofold scope, symbolic and legal, particularly strong. First, it makes the right to education without harassment a component of the right to education and extends it to private and higher education. Even more so, it creates an obligation of resources for educational institutions. They will have to take all appropriate measures to combat moral harassment in schools and universities. These provisions will accompany the deployment in our schools of the programme to combat harassment at school – the PHARE programme – which has been widespread since the beginning of 2021 and which has been an undeniable success. Clarifications on the content of these measures were introduced during the examination of the text by the Committee on Cultural Affairs. It is thus stated that they will aim "to prevent the occurrence of situations of school harassment, to encourage their detection by the educational community in order to provide a rapid response and to direct victims and perpetrators... to the appropriate services. This deliberately broad formulation makes it possible to include both health services, law enforcement, justice and specialized associations. In committee, Article 2 was supplemented by a new paragraph designed to make the right to education without harassment effective in institutions without a contract of association with the State. There is no justification for not providing such protection to all children in the Republic. Section 3 will allow institutions to better prevent, detect and treat situations of school harassment. The formalization of the institution's response, which will involve doctors, nurses, social workers and psychologists working in the institutions, seems essential. Their harmonization at national level is also necessary in order to increase efficiency and generalise the positive initiatives that have shown their interest here and there. Article 3 will also make it possible to improve the care of victims and perpetrators of harassment by ensuring adequate training for all professionals who may encounter this type of situation: national education staff, such as sports, cultural and leisure entertainment staff, who are at the forefront of this fight against harassment, but also, more broadly, the entire medical and paramedical corps, social workers, magistrates and law enforcement officials. All may have to intervene, to varying degrees, in the treatment of situations of school harassment. As a result of the exchange that we had in committee, I will propose to extend continuing training to all professionals involved in educational institutions, in order to reach out to both community and higher education staff. In addition, article 3 now provides for information on the risks of school harassment and cyber-harassment to be provided to the parents of students. The aim is to empower parents in relation to their child's digital relationship. In this sense, Bill No. 4646 of the chairman of the Bruno Studer Commission, aimed at facilitating the use of parental control, is perfectly complementary to the action we wish to take through this bill. [[Mr. Jimmy Pahun applauds]] Taking note of the evolution of forms of harassment in the digital age, the draft law seeks, in Article 7, to strengthen the obligations imposed on Internet actors. Its provisions target in particular social networks: they aim to force the most popular platforms of young people to combat situations of school harassment by allowing them to be reported by users and by bringing them to the attention of the public authorities, thus putting them in front of their responsibilities.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u4	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u5	That is also the meaning of Article 4, the scope of which I would like to clarify. First of all, I would like to use the expressive function of the Penal Code to impose a clear prohibition, which could form the basis for educational preventive action. Today, although school harassment can be apprehended through the offence of moral harassment provided for in article 222-33-2-2 of the Criminal Code, the absence of an independent qualification deprives some of its effectiveness of any communication that might be made about it. The primary purpose of Article 4 is thus to make the contours of this social rule perfectly explicit. It also makes it possible to make the punishment of moral harassment in schools or universities more consistent with other forms of moral harassment already punishable by the Penal Code. While maximum sentences are theoretically aggravated, they are not intended to be automatically applied. As you know, our juvenile criminal justice system takes into account not only the minority but the overall situation of the young person. If we get to this point, everything else will have failed, which I do not wish. With regard to Article 6, I have heard requests from my colleagues to call otherwise the internship I had proposed in my report. I am in no way opposed to this: we will also propose a new name, probably more in line with its content. It is not a question of punishing, but of enabling the perpetrators to grasp the consequences of their actions. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem and LaREM groups]] We all share, as members of national representation, a particular responsibility in the fight against these forms of violence. For the violence of which so many students and students are now victims is not unrelated to the state of our fragmented society, whose internal conflicts are expressed in an ever more aggressive and acute way, including, sometimes, on our benches. Our school and our children are certainly the future of our country: let us not forget that they are also the mirror of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u6	The next speaker is the Minister for National Education, Youth and Sport.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u7	The issue of school harassment is not a marginal issue for the French school system, nor for any other school system. We must fight against harassment not only in the name of the well-being of children, but also one of our greatest values: fraternity. Combating harassment is therefore a way of asserting the principles of the Republic: it must be reminded to those who believe that this issue would be secondary. It is for this reason that I welcome the tabling of this bill by Erwan Balanant, which I thank for his commitment on the subject – the report he has drafted already inspires our action. This text should allow us to make another big step forward. We have done a lot since 2017, extending initiatives started in the early 2010s – which was already a little late compared to what was happening in other countries. Above all, we have sought to improve the feeling of well-being in school by raising the respect of others to the rank of fundamental knowledge – as well as reading, writing and counting, so that this notion of respect permeates the entire course of the student, from primary school to bachelor's degree – by combating all forms of discrimination and by offering students and families all social or educational solutions – such as boarding schools of excellence or free breakfasts – that guarantee optimal conditions for learning and success in school and out-of-school. Promoting the school of trust is therefore the issue with which the fight against school harassment is linked. We will never get used to the fact that the lives of children or adolescents are broken, sometimes irremediably, by this real scourge of everyday life. We will therefore relentlessly fight harassment at school, wherever it is practised, conscious of its evolution to different forms such as cyberharassment. The actions taken since 2017, some of which are based on foreign practices – I will come back – have helped to contain in part the development of physical harassment, but it is more difficult to stem online harassment, the rapid progress of which must alert us and lead us to redouble our efforts. This goes through legislation, but also through regulation and, above all, through daily action in our schools and institutions. The fight against school harassment is a priority of my ministry, as I think of the National Assembly. It also requires the mobilization of the entire society. As Mr Balanant has just said, harassment is a reflection of society, and it is for this reason that it is found in virtually every country in the world. It is thus interesting to analyse its anthropological and social causes, but also to examine the answers that have been given to it in different countries, because some, effective, must inspire us. Since 2018, we have been implementing a proactive and ambitious plan to combat harassment, structured around three key verbs: prevention, intervention and training. As far as prevention is concerned, we have strengthened the legal framework in force with Article 5 of the Law for a school of trust. We banned mobile phones in college as early as 2017, as this was one of the vectors on which we had to act. We have strengthened media and information literacy through the Education and Information Media Liaison Centre, CLEMI. On the subject of cyber-harassment, in addition to the Conseil Supérieur de l'audiovisuel, we have worked with the main social media platforms, of which I have recently met representatives: they are part of the problem and must be part of the solution. We organize prevention campaigns every year, usually in November, which lead me to visit institutions frequently and in which the First Lady herself participated. Each time, a new theme is addressed – the role of witnesses, group dynamics, primary school, cyber-harassment – all of which unfortunately correspond to the daily reality of our children. We have also strengthened the scientific expertise with the installation within the ministry of an expert committee of researchers and partners. We have created awards: the "No to Harassment" competition, in which hundreds of schools and institutions participate, has included since 2017 a special prize dedicated to the fight against cyberharassment, and for the past two years, another special prize concerns elementary school. In accordance with the law for a school of trust, we also organized the assessment of schools by the School Evaluation Board. The latter began its work a year and a half ago and must, in five years, appreciate the school climate of all schools in France – 20% per year. This obviously concerns the fight against harassment. We expect much from this approach, which must result in greater accountability for each institution in this regard. We have also extended the multi-victim surveys conducted by the Directorate of Public Policy Evaluation, DEPP, to first-degree schools. Finally, we have encouraged associations – which I would like to welcome and some of which are represented today in the forums – as well as other actors in the fight against harassment. In this area, it is also – and above all – civil society that we must mobilize. The second key verb is "intervention". In this respect, my reasoning is always the same: whether you are a student or an adult, no one in the school system should feel alone in the face of acts contrary to the law and our principles. A number of actions have been taken in this direction, and this bill will also allow us to go further. The Ministry funded the creation of a number, 3020, where professionals are listening to students and families to inform them about all existing tools and, above all, to propose solutions related to academies. There were also 337 harassment references and 31 academic lines, as well as a number dedicated to the fight against cyber-harassment, on 3018, in partnership with the e-Enfance association. These two telephone numbers, 3018 and 3020, have been quite successful. Another very important innovation is the creation of mobile teams capable of intervening in institutions whenever necessary. This is part of what we have called the "regalian square", that is, the four subjects for which specialists are placed with each rector. Third key verb: "form". We are following an ambitious plan for teacher training, whether it is initial training – in application of the law for the school of trust, a module dedicated to the fight against harassment is now included in the training of any future teacher in France – or continuing training: three national seminars and a seminar of managers have already taken place, and 15,000 contacts in the academies are being trained, at a rate of eight days per person. Adult education, which is essential, requires a certain degree of technicality and knowledge. However, this also implies a state of mind, which this training is intended to disseminate. It is also about the training of pupils, particularly the PHARE programme, mentioned by Mr Balanant and to which I shall return. It produces capillary effects, hence the appointment of student ambassadors for peer-to-peer awareness.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u8	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u9	I will also quote the publication of resources and guides for staff, students and their families, listed on the "No Harassment" page of education.gouv.fr. This is obviously very important: to combat harassment, to better identify the phenomenon of harassers, we need complicity between the school and the families and that the latter are responsible. We have also strengthened international cooperation. In November 2019, France, on my initiative, organized with UNESCO the first international conference on the subject, which led to the joint publication of scientific recommendations for the fight against harassment and cyberharassment. As the phenomenon is global, it requires sharing good practices among different countries and, with regard to cyber-harassment, accountability for social media platforms. Similarly, in November 2021, France participated in the second conference, organized this time by Mexico. In this regard, we need communication with all societies around the world. It was also in connection with Morocco and Mexico that our country was at the initiative of the International Day against Violence and Harassment in Schools, now celebrated under the auspices of UNESCO. Finally, I would like to stress the importance of the PHARE programme: it is the first comprehensive programme to combat school harassment among pupils. Since the fall of 2021 and after a successful experiment in six academies, we are moving towards its generalization to all academies, i.e. to all schools and colleges in France. This programme is based on what is best done in the world – particularly in Scandinavian countries – including the Finnish KiVa programme. In concrete terms, the aim is to provide each school and institution with a plan of prevention and action to measure the quality of the school climate, to inform on harassment phenomena, to train a protective community of professionals, staff and students, to intervene effectively in harassment situations, to involve parents and partners and to communicate on the programme, to mobilise bodies of school democracy – the College Life Council (CVC), the High School Life Council (CVL), the Education Committee for Health, Citizenship and the Environment (CESCE) – and to assess the impact of these actions and to make available, through a dedicated platform, the resources available in this field. This programme will be effective if it stimulates the mobilization of the educational community – and this is the case: we already see the first significant effects on the school climate. I very much believe in the contagion of good practice in this matter. As we speak, there are schools and schools in France where there is no school harassment. It is possible, therefore, that the same may be true everywhere.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u10	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u11	So we need to disseminate good practices based on both the legal provisions – which you are going to strengthen today – and the resources I have mentioned. In this respect, the utility of the Regalian square should not be underestimated. In each field, the rectorates have a dedicated team ready to intervene quickly, increasingly expanded by young people in civic service. The training of stakeholders, who in turn will train adults and students, will have an impact on practices. On this and other points, we will show that force is on the right side, on the Republic side. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] This bill is therefore an opportunity to go further on the legislative front, of course, but also to step up the mobilization: our exchanges, the improvements we will make, I hope, to the rule of law, will help us to make progress. We will broaden the legal basis of school harassment, remind the importance of initial and continuing training, assign the platforms a duty of vigilance in this area. By proposing to legislate on such a matter, the nation's representatives send a message of great power. I am sure that our work and our exchanges will be rich and constructive. We have already come a long way and done much for equality and freedom. Let's do the same for fraternity.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u12	In the general debate, Mrs Emmanuelle Anthoine spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u13	School harassment is a scourge that we must fight. The statistics are particularly worrying: more than one in ten young French people would suffer a form of school harassment, or more than 750,000 children each year. It is therefore the duty of the legislator to react and seize this subject. Too many young people put an end to their lives because of a situation of school harassment. These horrific facts must cease. School harassment is characterized by violence, regular, verbal, physical or psychological assault by an aggressor or a group of aggressors. Children are insulted, insulted, threatened, shook or beaten. This untenable reality has no place in the school of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u14	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u15	The text we are studying is therefore welcome and expected. Now a little over three years ago, I introduced a bill that was already aimed at fighting this scourge better. Its purpose was to draw attention to the worrying phenomenon of school harassment, to propose a legal definition of it and to create an autonomous offence in the Criminal Code. This was the first time in this Parliament that the issue of school harassment was addressed. In this regard, I would like to welcome the involvement of the HUGO! association, with which I worked at the time. Since then, four other legislative initiatives have emerged on the subject, coming from different parliamentary groups, illustrating a consensus within national representation on the need for legislation. I would like to welcome the fact that the bill we are studying today provides for the inclusion in the penal code of a specific article dedicated to school harassment. This measure, which I have long supported, represents a particularly anticipated development. It is by being identified as a specific criminal offence that school harassment will be fully recognized and appointed by society and that consciences will awaken. In addition, I fully endorse the creation of an awareness training course, a measure that I also proposed in my bill. I am concerned, however, that they are not systematically prescribed for the perpetrators of school harassment. I therefore proposed an appeal amendment on this point. The training course is based on those related to road safety. Proposed as an educational sanction, it would serve to recall the essential rules and improve the behaviour of offenders. In order for the fight against school harassment to be fully effective, an educational measure must accompany the sanction. The fight against school harassment also requires the mobilization of all actors. In addition to schools and their teaching teams, staff working in schools, local authorities, associations, social networks, parents of pupils and pupils must also be involved. The prevention of school harassment must be everyone's business. In this context, school medicine has its full role to play. It should be given new means, in addition to the training which will now be offered to doctors, nurses and school psychologists, to enable them to provide first-hand care for students subjected to school harassment and the participation of these personnel in the development of guidelines and procedures for prevention. As we know, school medicine is in a worrying situation. This was revealed in 2017 by a report from the Academy of Medicine signed by Professor Bégué. The lack of qualified personnel does not allow school medicine to respond effectively to the imperatives of prevention among students. In order to ensure the effectiveness of the fight against school harassment, we must also ensure that our resources are strengthened, Minister. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group and on some benches of the LaREM, Dem and UDI-I groups]] Even if this text remains perfect, the Republican Group will vote for it. Given the importance of the issues involved in combating school harassment, such a bill can only be unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u16	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u17	Finally, we have the words to describe what we have long sought to denounce without being able to avoid: repeated ridicule, unjustified bullying, physical violence. It's school harassment. The repeated and widespread nature of this phenomenon must not justify its trivialization. School harassment is not trivial, it is not a small violence without consequence. It cannot be accepted that thousands of students go to school with fear in their stomachs, that the victims have as the only way out of school, that thousands of students are permanently traumatized to the point that some can no longer bear to live. With this bill, Mr rapporteur, you are continuing to work on your parliamentary mission, and you are giving us the opportunity to address this phenomenon, an insidious phenomenon, like all forms of harassment, because it places the victim in a position of isolation and extreme fragility that prevents him from getting out of this infernal cycle of violence. Defining school harassment, understanding its jurisdiction to better identify and combat it is obviously the prerequisite for any action. The text proposed by the Commission at the end is interesting in that it also targets students and adults, who may be affected as victims as well as as as executioners. At the same time, a right to protection against school harassment in the Education Code is a symbol, but it is still necessary, especially since it is extended to private schools. However, this right to protection will remain a pious wish if it is not accompanied by binding obligations and, above all, by means of facilities. As we say again, the fight against school harassment must first and foremost be through prevention. This requires that schools be better equipped to prevent, detect, report and stop such behaviour. This means creating the conditions for listening and collecting the words of the harassed student. Too often, unfortunately, the educational community does not have the tools or the means to understand and combat this harassment, which sometimes worsens already difficult situations. Awareness-raising and training are therefore the two main levers on which we must act. The bill is ambitious on these issues, but we still need to build the capacity to invest in this direction. However, the situation of school medicine, and in particular psychologists, is not to reassure the institutions of their ability to play their role of listening, prevention and accompaniment. Minister, perhaps you could tell us how this bill will fit into the PHARE programme that has been widespread since the beginning of the year. School harassment is now continuing beyond school, on the Internet, through social networks. The latter represent an immense body of resonance for acts of intimidation and violence. We regret that the draft law contains only one article on this subject, dealing with moderation of content, even though it seems to us to be a major focus on which to act. This text does not allow us to see how platforms could be forced to do more in this area. Finally, we must break with the belief that the student victim would bear in him the source and explanation of his harassment. Therefore, it was important not to list its causes in the law. It would take the problem backwards and ignore the different forms that it can take. It must be repeatedly reiterated that the reason for the harassment originates in the author, in the depersonalization and feeling of impunity and of any power conferred by the effects of groups; The reason for the harassment is never in the victim's home. This justifies the creation of a specific offence of school harassment. However, be careful not to focus solely on individual criminal sanctions. These should be primarily educational, and actually applied, even if certain criminal sanctions would have the advantage of clarifying responsibilities and would certainly have preventive value. In other words, the intensity of the deterrent must be measured, especially since the perpetrators of harassment are, in the vast majority, minors. In any event, the Libertés et Territoires Group welcomes the objective of this bill by recalling the priority that must always be ours: prevention, awareness-raising and long-term support for the student victims. (The rapporteur applauds.)
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u18	Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u19	The fight against school harassment is, of course, a national cause that transcends partisan divisions. That the young people, whom we entrust to the school institution, may be victims in its midst of repeated vexations, violence of all kinds, we all worry and revulse. It is a phenomenon that cannot be minimized. According to a 2015 DEPP survey, 5.8% of students are reported to be harassed, or nearly 700000 young people each year. And while harassment affects all age groups, it must be noted that it affects the smallest, from primary school onwards, for a rate that stands at 12%, more than one in ten schoolgirls. Harassment is therefore a major issue that national representation is right to address. However,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u20	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u21	... I do not hide from you that this proposal for a law is, in our view, part of more of a communication plan, especially since there are already effective tools that should be put in place and evaluated: the PHARE project, the educational committee in high schools and the national protocol to combat harassment. It is enough to convince one another that he will listen to the first concerned, and in particular to the associations committed against this scourge. Nora Fraisse, president of the Marion-la-hand association, says: "We don't need a bill, these people are out of the ground. »
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u22	She's the only one who says it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u23	Thus, the choice, in article 4 of this bill, to create a new offence of school harassment is part of a real criminal auction. He took the opposite of the excellent information report published last September by two honourable senators, who felt that "the current legal system is a tool to combat harassment." This overbidding is illusory and demagogic. It is illusory, because most of the harassment in school is done by minors, very often by classmates. However, since the law in force explicitly refers to the concept of discernment, and since it is inter alia correlated with the age of the aggressor, the excuse of a minority will render any criminal sanction void. Demagogic then, since harassment has never been proven to have a deterrent effect as a result of the harshening of sentences. On this subject, I am not far from sharing the opinion of Jean-Pierre Bellon, director of the Centre de ressources et d'études systèmes contre les intimidations scolaires (RESIS), auditioned by our colleague Balanant: "Punish the students, as if that were what we needed! » So of course, our "children clearly need clear references, rules and penalties applied consistently by adults," to use the words of sociologist Benjamin Moignard, whom I make mine. And here I join my comrade Elsa Faucillon: prevention in schools is obviously not enough; Educational sanctions must also be used to ensure that the perpetrator of acts of harassment is punished proportionately. »
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u24	That's how our criminal justice is designed!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u25	Similarly, I am surprised that section 1 of this bill introduces a serious indistinction to characterize acts of harassment: they are not only students, but also major personnel working in schools. This is a profound change in the very concept of school harassment, which has not been the subject of any prior discussion with the educational community, teachers' unions, staff or parents of students. Of course, there are positive measures in this text. I am thinking in particular of article 6 of the Code of Criminal Justice for Minors, which establishes provisions for a course of responsibility for school life. Is it necessary for this to be a new offence?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u26	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u27	But the main flaw in this text, and I will say it unambiguously, is that it never raises the question of the human and financial means to prevent, detect or punish harassment in institutions. Thus, according to Marion's president, the hand stretched, rather than passing an umpteenth law, it is first of all to seek money, to train people. This parliamentary majority has consistently refused to increase the number of adults in institutions. The number of school doctors continues to collapse and nurses are hardly better off. And I am not talking about the directors, who are overwhelmed by their administrative work, the education assistants (EDAs) who are understaffed, the senior education advisors (CPEs) who are unable to do so. [[Mr Bruno Millienne exclaimed]] Then, in your article 3 on initial training, you have a good game of involving these same staff in the school or school project. What hypocrisy! How to do it, when to do it? It is also a mistake not to include harassment as an indicator of the performance objective of the 230 Student Life program, as we proposed by amendment, which is very different than accounting for offences that mix minors and adults in the same package. In conclusion, I will repeat the correct words in the Senate report I have already quoted: "Tools exist, yet the texts must be known and applied." And for that, we need human and financial resources. Thus, the vote of the unsolicited La France group will depend on whether or not Article 4 is maintained.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u28	Don't worry, I'll explain it to you!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u29	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u30	The extent of school harassment sheds light on the impact of violence in our society on the well-being and safety of our children. We are obviously responsible for them and we must protect them, because, as we have seen recently, harassment kills. And when it does not kill, it is at the root of suffering among the harassed children, so much so that for some of them, the only way out of this cycle of violence is to become themselves harassers. These sufferings are also those of their friends, and of course those of the families who all too often feel destitute and unsupported. This bill puts this issue at the centre of our debate, which I believe was necessary. Article 1 of the Education Code enshrines a right to protection against harassment. Adfirming that we must protect our children in schools is obviously not nothing, but it may only be symbolic if we do not provide resources for multidisciplinary care. This, I believe, is what you are trying to do, Mr rapporteur, in Article 3, which provides for the care of harassed children in school medicine. Of course, we believe that this is a good signal. Again, however, it may be feared that this will be a pious wish if the means do not follow. The new missions given to the educational community as well as to doctors, nurses, psychologists and social workers must be accompanied by important human and, above all, financial resources. Sufficient reports have shown that school medicine is in disinherence, a situation that we see everywhere in our territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u31	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u32	This is not acceptable. How, moreover, could school doctors carry out the tasks entrusted to them when each has to take care of an average of 12,500 students? The same applies to school nurses, the only representatives of school medicine in schools. Repeated attacks on this profession, notably through the departmentalization of school medicine provided for in Bill 3DS – bill on differentiation, decentralization, deconcentration and various measures to simplify local public action – weaken the identification and support of child victims or perpetrators of harassment. It should be added that the health crisis has more highlighted the lack of resources. We therefore ask the minister for a clear commitment: if this bill is passed, will it be accompanied by a plan and means dedicated to school medicine? As I have already said in committee, in the absence of firm commitments on the financial and human resources to be devoted to multidisciplinary management, our response to school harassment through this text will be highly unbalanced: with the new offence created by Article 4 in the Penal Code, it will be based mainly on a repressive reflex.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u33	At the very heart of the education system!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u34	Articles 222-33-2 et seq. may apply to school harassment; They already provide an indispensable basis for the fight against this phenomenon. Creating a new offence also carries the risk of further externalizing the treatment of school harassment by referring it to the courts. Worse still, the penalty provided for does not take into account the group dynamics behind most cases of harassment, even though you mention it in the explanatory memorandum to your proposal, rapporteur. According to many associations, prevention with means is more effective than criminal punishment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u35	According to one association!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u36	I'm sure you share the idea that prevention is more effective than criminal punishment, Mr. Balanant. Furthermore, it is not an offence for the victims to recall that the perpetrators of such violent acts are also children and that, as such, they must be subject to juvenile justice. This juvenile justice is a social conquest...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u37	Yes, and it exists!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u38	...that we must cherish, preserve, protect, whatever the circumstances. That is why we have tabled an amendment to remove the offence of harassment in schools and another to include the fight against harassment in the curriculum of moral and civic education. Time passes and I will not be able to explain all my arguments. Finally, I would like to draw attention to the cost to families of the necessary psychological care, which can be up to 500 euros per month. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] This bill is to a large extent welcome: it is necessary to act, and urgently. However, in the current state of the text, marked by a repressive reflex, and without firm commitments on the part of the minister on the strengthened means to be attributed to school medicine, the GDR group will abstain.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u39	Mrs Zivka Park has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u40	We have talked a lot about the figures and the definitions this afternoon. Instead, I would like to talk to you about the ill-being and distress of a large part of our harassed or harassed children. There was Marion, Thybault, Marie, Matteo; Evaëlle and Alisha in Val-d'Oise; Dinah, a few weeks ago; Chanel, a few days ago. They were all under the age of 15. These names are here to remind us that school harassment sometimes leads to terrible tragedies. I can also tell you about the one I will name Louis, who begins a long reconstruction from the top of his 15 years after an attempted suicide. It starts with almost nothing, shambles, stories of children as they say. Then come the bullying, the repeated humiliations, often in a collective silence. Acts that lead to the worst, especially because of pack phenomena. This is a complex reality that schools cannot confront on their own, nor are parents, who are often deprived. It's not a taboo. It is our whole society that must become aware of the scale of the phenomenon. By this text, which all members of the groups of the presidential majority have signed, we enshrine a ban in the law. The fight against the scourge of school harassment must bring us together beyond political labels and that is what is being done. This text, more than setting standards, calls for collective awareness. School is a place of learning and socialization that cannot be transformed into a place of suffering. Our children must be able to go to school without fear in the stomach. Our children must be able to go home and feel safe at home, without feeling hunted and trapped in their own room. This is a new step in the fight against school harassment and violence at school that we must take. The President of the Republic made a strong intervention during the National Day to Combat Harassment at School on 18 November: he announced the creation of the application 3018 and the strengthening of youth homes and youth listening reception points. We are part of the fight led since 2017 by the Government and our majority, in particular with the generalization of the PHARE programme. With this bill, it is a dual objective that we aim to achieve. On the one hand, its preventive component aims to broaden the right to education without harassment and to improve the prevention, detection and care of victims. On the other hand, it aims to devote a criminal component to improving the judicial treatment of incidents of school harassment, in particular through the creation of an autonomous offence. For, yes, the harassers must understand that their actions are punished by the law! The work in committee has enabled us to reach a text that sets out the guidelines for combating school harassment. Everyone will have understood here that we cannot put everything in the law. We have come to a clear definition of the facts characterizing school harassment that will cover all situations. As for the offence of school harassment that we create, it will be sufficiently effective to improve judicial treatment. This text will have to be translated effectively in the field, especially in schools. Each of us will have to bring together professional actors so that they can work together: medical and paramedical personnel, magistrates, law enforcement officers, national education staff and sports, cultural and leisure entertainment staff. I do not forget, of course, those who have an essential role to play: parents and associations. All these actors, we take them into account in this text, either to enable them to be better trained or to involve them in the struggle, with their own expertise. Yes, they must be mobilized and find the contract that will allow them to act together on their territory. In other words, this bill is not intended to say in the slightest detail how actors should do it, at the risk of taking any initiative away from them. Nevertheless, it gives us the opportunity to discuss the measures to be taken with regard to access to our children's social networks, the conditions under which it is carried out, and even its prohibition in certain specific cases. We put a first stone to the building by proposing to confiscate telephones or any other means that have led to cyberharassment. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] To all associations like Marion the hand out, HUGO! or e-Enfance, who are doing a lot of work on the ground to help victims, train, raise awareness, do prevention and fight what is not fatal, I say thank you. And I want to assure all children that we will be there to ensure that our battles today and tomorrow are not in vain.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u41	Mr Grégory Labelle has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u42	He was 16. It began with insults and bullying, and then students in his class forced him to take medication before mowing. A few weeks later, on March 30, 2017, Clément Brisse was found dead in a pond in Délicourt Park, Ham in the Somme, a few hundred meters from the high school where he was intern in second. His murderer was a student of the same institution, a stalker. Clément's parents, whom I met, had alerted the teachers and the management but despite the vigilance of some members of the high school, nothing concrete allowed to stop the mechanics of the violence that ripped Clement out of life. Nearly 800,000 children are victims of school harassment in France. Some facts are too serious for justice to intervene. I myself have been a professor for thirty years: I know how difficult it is to identify and combat harassment. If it manifests itself in a wide variety of forms, it always has such severe consequences for the children who suffer it that it justifies a specific article in the Penal Code. Despite your explanations in committee, rapporteur, two of my questions remain. First, the definition given in this new article will relate only to acts committed by persons or pupils belonging to the same institution as the victim, while school harassment, often collective, sometimes involves students from several institutions. Could similar acts within a group constitute different offences depending on the origin of the perpetrators? I believe it is important to broaden this definition to leave it to the judge to properly characterize the facts of school harassment so as not to exclude any cases, no victims. This question of the right definition leads me to question the nature of the penalties provided for in the article that you want to create in relation to those that already exist. We share your objective: you must show firmness against the perpetrators of harassment and apply fair punishment to them. However, we would not like this message to be weakened by considerations of proportionality or consistency of penalties. Again, there is a question about your choice: the penalty gap may be up to seven years for students from different schools who have committed the same offences. I will come back to that when I defend my amendments. Nor do we want the criminal response to be at the centre of the fight against school harassment, because if the facts that come under it are destined to be dealt with by the judge, it means that it is already too late. We believe that it is within the school itself that we need to intervene, in particular through better prevention. It seems to me to be necessary to act to change attitudes. While raising children's awareness of the risk of school harassment is a necessity, it is also important to raise awareness among teachers and mentors. Many teachers are alerting when they witness harassment, but some still believe that this phenomenon does not exist in their schools and that some words are only sound ridicule that forge character. Article 3 speaks very precisely of training, a very important aspect, but it is necessary above all to break a taboo in national education: there is harassment in institutions and even in a very large majority of classes. It is therefore important to encourage institutions to be more vigilant and to ask directors to identify every fact they have received so that they know how to adapt their control strategy. I also believe that we must stay tuned to the child and the parents. A drop-out, a change of school is obviously not always desirable, but if the student so requests, if he or she no longer feels safe in his or her school environment, action must be taken. You are all the more aware, Mr rapporteur, that it is your group that has introduced the possibility of educating a child at home without delay when he or she is subjected to school harassment. Finally, how can we not say a word about the lack of school psychologists, a situation whose consequences are disastrous. It must be corrected by keeping a simple idea in mind: every student harassed must know that there is a door at which he can knock to find help. The subject of school harassment is broad. The IDU and independent Members will of course support all the measures that go in the right direction, hoping that our debates will enrich the text usefully. [[Applause on the benches of the IDU-I groups and on a few benches of the Dem and LaREM groups. – The rapporteur also applauds]] If it's too late for Clement, let's do it for Salvador, 17, Camille, 6, Fabien, 13, and all the others: fear and shame must change sides.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u43	Mrs Blandine Brocard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u44	School harassment is a scourge that affects children and young people in school, in recreation classes, in colleges, in buses, in their own rooms. A child, a young person who is harassed is now harassed everywhere; No moment of respite. He's being hunted all the time. School harassment deeply damages our children, disrupts their schooling, ruines what should be the most beautiful years of their lives. As for us adults, parents, teachers, mentors, law enforcement officers, we feel destitute when a child has the courage to express the violence that he or she suffers. The path of education should be a path of knowledge, enrichment and common life, but for some it is transformed into a path of anxiety and fear that undermines their development and can destroy families. It has been said: every year, nearly 1 million students are harassed while in school, and this harassment can take various forms and cause many disorders. Our century, full of prowess and evolutions with which our children are born, inevitably brings its share of terrible drifts: social networks, which certainly facilitate exchanges but which dramatically aggravate situations of school harassment. Born a few years ago on the walls of schools, school harassment is now continuing well beyond, leaving no respite to the students who are victims of it. Even in their rooms, they are exposed, trapped. Minister, I am aware of your commitment on this matter and you have recalled it at the moment. We need to go even further to effectively protect our children, so that they can study and grow calmly. Thanks to your involvement and tenacity, rapporteur, we can look at your bill from the recommendations of your report "Understanding and Combating School Harassment". This bill aims to be ambitious because, while it aims to protect students from school harassment, it also aims to improve their support – whether it is harassment or stalkers, the rest. New mechanisms are being introduced to strengthen and improve the fight against school harassment. First, we clearly define harassment and encourage national education, by imposing an obligation to act, to accompany teachers and the entire educational community in dealing with this phenomenon. That's possible! The Finnish example has shown us this: by giving us the means and restoring human ties that are sometimes too distended, we can stop the phenomenon of school harassment. Secondly, we create an offence of school harassment, thus bringing criminal law into line with the reality of the situations our children experience throughout their schooling. Whether committed during higher education or before, acts of school harassment become an autonomous offence and all actors in education – staff and students – will be placed in a position of responsibility. The creation of this autonomous crime allows for a real awareness of the seriousness of the facts. It's a strict ban, a clear ban. In addition, we are introducing a course of responsibility for school life, which can be conducted as part of the criminal composition or as a penalty where it seems necessary. However, we will defend an amendment to amend its title so that it is more in line with the reality of its content. These mechanisms should enable harassment to be dealt with both upstream, by improving the identification of this phenomenon and the care of victims through better training of staff, but also downstream through the creation of a new specific offence and the establishment of an alternative educational solution. As such, the rich debates that we had last week in committee have made it possible to introduce important advances. At the initiative of the Dem Group, information will be provided each year to parents of students to raise awareness of school harassment. This provision is very important because we cannot combat this phenomenon without involving families: they certainly do not play an active role in schools but they remain essential actors in detecting harassment, warning educational teams and thus preventing the worst. In addition, the simplification of article 4 makes the text more intelligible and will facilitate the use of the offence of school harassment by judges. Similarly, the rewriting of article 6 has made it possible to link to the courses already planned the awareness of school harassment. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group and on several benches of the LaREM group]] I believe deeply in our common ability to continue to advance the fight against school harassment, in order to enable children in the school of the Republic to become mature and responsible adults.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u45	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u46	Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u47	Combating school harassment obviously goes beyond political divisions and mobilizing against this scourge to protect our children must be our common concern; That is what we have said in our speeches in committee. Harassment in schools can affect every child, whether he or she is the perpetrator or the victim, regardless of age, sex, environment or education. Each of the successive governments has submitted plans to combat such violence, but it must be noted that, as a result of the increase in the phenomenon linked to social networks, harassment has taken on new forms that make the suffering of the victims interminable. Recent and serious harassment cases, causing unbearable tragedies, continue to generate great and legitimate emotion. Let us not forget, however, that harassment speaks a lot of the school climate as a whole and therefore concerns the entire educational community.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u48	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u49	This is why the fight against harassment requires the restoration of the school climate, which is sometimes degraded, by reconsidering teachers, by improving the conditions under which students grow up, by imagining from primary school awareness actions more in connection with the college, by giving the educational community the means to match its investment. Because the school is the place of the collective, the mechanisms created must take into account the group effect. The PHARE programme, put forward by the Government, is inspired by the exciting work of researchers, psychologists and sociologists who have experimented and experimented throughout the territory as part of the Sentinels and Reference Project. The key to this arrangement, which I saw recently working in the largest college in my constituency where 1100 students live, is the reflection, in a community spirit, on some essential notions such as that of the scapegoat. These include breaking the silent consent of passive witnesses, without whom the harasser could not become a executioner or a hero of one day, training sentinels and referents who identify and protect potential victims, but also creating conditions for the release of the victims' words, and then promoting awareness of the seriousness of the acts committed. The sentinels are not there to denounce, because this would undermine the establishment of a climate of trust, but to identify, protect and connect with the enlightened adults who take over. This is the responsibility of prevention and training and must remain so. However, the bill that we are looking at again, although it is the result of the rapporteur's very committed work, still does not satisfy us fully. The creation of an autonomous offence under article 4 and the very high penalties accompanying it do not provide an adequate response to school harassment, which is already punishable by law. And while the term "school" indeed gives a more precise spatial outline, it still does not make it possible to distinguish precisely between the various categories of violence. Of course, we must put the perpetrators of the events before them, but we must also understand the mechanisms that govern the relations of domination and believe in the educability of young people. We must deal with suffering and, rather than adding a new offence to our already provided legal arsenal, allow heads of institutions and parents to turn more easily to justice. Harassment is too rarely prosecuted and the material characterization of the offence is rather difficult to establish. That is why we need to work, by giving justice the means to try these cases. You have accepted our proposal to rename internships in "Accountability to Combat Harassment" but it is essential for us that they be offered upstream of a referral by the court and be considered primarily as prevention tools. Indeed, without a thorough work, the suffering of the victims will not be repaired and the awareness of the harasser will not be realized. How many victims have had to face their harassers in unlikely confrontations, which reflect the difficulties that some personnel have in understanding the subject? The Defender of Rights has also raised this pitfall. We are not in favour of stepping up repression and we fear that the inclusion of procedures against adults in the same text would cause confusion. Harassment, when committed by teachers or adults, is a serious crime that must be punished. It should also be borne in mind that if teachers struggle to detect symptoms of harassment in a troubled classroom or in a difficult school environment, it is often not linked to a renunciation on their part but to a difficulty to spot – teachers, chahutized, also subjected to forms of harassment. The role of adults in this day-to-day struggle and how necessary it is for us all. You address in this text the responsibility of platforms; Indeed, they play a role as an amplifier that they must assume. However, your obligation is likely to remain a pious wish. There are too many examples of injunctions given to them and there are no concrete answers to the question that Article 7 will resolve. You have introduced the essential actors that parents are in your text without accepting, however, that they are involved in training activities; We regret it. Finally, we still regret the lack of resources given to educational staff and school health personnel, whose shortage we continue to denounce. How can we imagine that nurses and school doctors can be involved in the fight against harassment when, for lack of means, we all know, they are not even able to carry out their missions on a daily basis? [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] The legislator cannot do everything; Let us not pass laws of emotion. The intention behind this text is commendable and can only provoke emotion and sympathy. The Socialists have long been involved in these matters, but it is not certain that the creation of a new offence will result in better punishment of the perpetrators and better care for the victims. We fear that beyond the signal, it is only an announcement effect.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u50	Mrs Agnès Firmin Le Bodo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u51	There are individual tragedies that are also collective: the suicide of young Dinah, who ended her life on 5 October at the age of 14, is one of them. Physical attacks, racist, homophobic and sexist insults: the violence that once ceased at 16:30 now crosses the school grid and continues in the comfort of the anonymity of social networks. Dinah is unfortunately not an isolated case. They were called Thybault, Chanel, Marjorie or Alisha; A total of 18 students have ended their lives since the beginning of the year, under pressure from their fellow harassers. They are the face of a scourge that would affect between 6% and 10% of students, i.e. 700000 to 1 million children! No region, no city, no establishment, no social class is spared. Yet the suffering of the victims is all too often made invisible, ignored. Isolation, shame and fear of talking to parents or teachers are all locks that must be broken if the law of silence is to finally cease. This is the real challenge: to free and better collect the words of the victims. For school harassment as for all other forms of violence that gangrene our society, the logic is the same: fear and shame must change sides. However, it must be recognized that our country has been slow to become aware of the phenomenon and to build a real public policy to combat school violence. It was not until 2010 that the government of the time seized the subject, under the impetus of Luc Chatel. Since then, all successive governments and majorities have worked to combat this scourge. Our majority took part, first by including the right to education without harassment in the law for a school of trust, adopted in 2019, and then last year, by adopting the law against hate online, at the initiative of our colleague Laetitia Avia. But in terms of school harassment, as in many other areas, the law does not do everything; The law can't do everything. Many levers for action fall within the regulatory area. I am thinking in particular of the need to open 24 hours a day and 7 days a week telephone lines to encourage the release of speech. I commend the Government's efforts since 2017 under the auspices of Jean-Michel Blanquer to change the prevention of harassment and the care of victims in the daily practice of school life. Of course, I am thinking of the generalization of the PHARE programme from the beginning of the 2021 school year, which translates in practice into the presence of student ambassadors to whom victims and witnesses can turn, but also through the training of several staff members in the identification and treatment of harassment situations. The Group also welcomes the recent announcements by the President of the Republic, including the creation of a new application to report harassment. This platform is one of the measures advocated by Timothé Nadim, a former harassed student who has been able to raise his head and who is now campaigning for things to change. I want to pay tribute to his commitment here. The bill before us today will go even further. It is based on the following triptych: prevention, accompaniment, protection. First, it aims to prevent harassment by enshrining a right to education without violence in all institutions, both public and private. Our group fully shares this objective. In committee, we have also clarified the content of the measures to be taken by institutions to insist on prevention. It then targets the support of victims and adults who care for them, whose training it strengthens. The Group of the European People's Party welcomes this and will defend an amendment aimed at facilitating the use of psychological care by victims, but also by perpetrators of school harassment. Finally, the purpose of the bill is to protect. Article 4 creates a specific offence of school harassment for this purpose. But because, beyond criminal sanctions, the first response must first be educational, we very much welcome Article 6, which establishes an internship aimed at empowering harassing students. Ladies and gentlemen, the death of Dinah reminds us of the importance of taking action to ensure that the school remains a place of emancipation through knowledge, of course, but also through the learning of civics and citizenship. This text contributes to this process and I would like to warmly thank its rapporteur, Erwan Balanant, for his constant commitment to combating school violence. I hope that his bill will quickly find a place on the Senate agenda, where I can count on the determination of committed parliamentarians like Colette Mélot. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group]] The members of the Agir ensemble group will therefore vote with conviction in favour of this bill which they have co-signed. In September, several members of our group had asked the President of the Republic to decree that the fight against school harassment would be the major national cause by 2022, in order to support the efforts of the actors on the ground, to raise awareness of the whole of society and to act together against this scourge. Maybe there's still time.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u52	The general discussion is closed. The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u53	I would like to say a few words before we begin the discussion of the amendments, first of all to thank all those who complimented our work and welcomed the text. I would also like to respond now to my colleagues on the left, so that we can have calm debates. I know that we share the same fight and that you have the same will as we, ladies and gentlemen, to fight this scourge which is so damaging to our children. The text is balanced and is based on three pillars: preventing, accompanying and protecting – in this order. You have welcomed, as I believe everyone else, the preventive and accompanying measures which are in exactly the same direction as the work carried out by the Minister and by national education in recent years. Why is it important to create an autonomous crime? First of all because, contrary to what you say, the tools do not exist. Today, a 17-year-old working in a company is better protected than a high school student harassed by his/her colleague. It's unacceptable to me. The penal code certainly has a punitive function, but also, as Robert Badinter says, an expressive function: it gives the measure of the gravity of the facts. Why can penalties seem important? They are, first of all, because, as has been said, they can punish adult perpetrators and not just minors. The bill must be able to respond to this type of situation: a student who would be harassed by his or her teacher during directed work (TD) must be as protected as a young person who works. This is not the case today. I invite you to read the penal code again, ladies and gentlemen: you will see a legislative gap on this issue. I would then add that there is a juvenile criminal justice system that always gives priority to educational measures over punishment or punishment. It is therefore not the question of penalties that should be our concern. The question we have to ask ourselves is: do we and our society, as national representatives, decide to define a clear prohibition? Do we decide to protect children as much as we do in their academic and academic apprenticeships as we protect an employee at work? For my part, I consider that we must do so, and I therefore ask that we work on this subject and that this text, which has a new criminal character, be successful. I wanted to tell you these few words before we continued to examine the text because, on the other hand, we agree. This will allow us to have calm debates, such as those we have had in committee. Our children deserve it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u54	I now call, in the text of the committee, the articles of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u55	Mrs Souad Zitouni has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u56	We all know about sexual harassment, moral harassment and street harassment. Today, we have to rule on school harassment. Ensuring schooling without harassment is the subject of the important text that needs to be examined today. 10 per cent of our students, 4 per cent of our high school students and nearly one in ten students in primary school are involved. Nearly 700000 pupils are affected each year; It is simply unbearable and we must not allow this to continue. These students may be experiencing situations that you may have witnessed: mockery, mockery, insults and violence. They sometimes remain silent, especially because they are afraid: fear of going to school, fear of others, fear of adults, fear of living in society. It is therefore necessary today to define the facts and punish them, but also to prevent them by raising awareness and training the teams that will accompany our students. Article 1 is intended to protect the latter; the means necessary for its implementation should be implemented. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] My dear friends, ladies and gentlemen, we must react. Every student needs to flourish in the school setting. It is there, indeed, that he begins his life. Accompanied by the teachers, he must be able to flourish in order to find his place in society. I thank the rapporteur, Mr Balanant, whose pugnacity has allowed us to examine this text today, which I will vote for.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u57	Mr Maxime Minot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u58	We all agree that school harassment is a scourge. It is also our duty as legislator to remedy the gaps in the law as soon as we can; We owe it to all victims and their families. This text gives us the opportunity, our group, as our colleague Emmanuelle Anthoine rightly pointed out, has taken on its responsibilities. We measure the consequences of school harassment on children who are subject to it, sometimes for the duration of their lives. Sanctions must live up to the tragedies in our schools and in our homes. In the same way, prevention has its full place in the system – and that is, Minister, the first element of the triptych that you have mentioned. In this regard, I would like to recall the responsibility of parents for the education they provide to their children. National education may not bear its name, as the school of the Republic must first and foremost educate. On this subject, we have a difference of substance with our colleagues on the other side of the House, who have as their slogan "no culprit and all responsible". I refuse to adopt this vision of things, which we know where it leads. As with any law, the effectiveness of this text will nevertheless lie in its application. We will therefore be attentive when the time comes for evaluation. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group, on several benches of the LaREM group and on some benches of the Dem group]] Finally, some questions remain unanswered. I am thinking, for example, of the remark made by our colleague Annie Genevard on the exclusion of the harasser from the establishment, rather than the harasser, or of the question of the effectiveness of the obligation for the platforms to moderate their content. As has been said, the text is still perfectable and I hope that we can work together. In the context of the digital revolution we know, in which children are increasingly vulnerable to screens and their effects, this text allows us: let us seize this opportunity. Mr rapporteur, Mr Minister, you know me, I do not always agree with you; But today, know how to count us by your side.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u59	Mr Bruno Fuchs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u60	I would like to pay tribute to the collective work – in which Mr Balanant has taken a large part – which has led us today to examine a text against school harassment. The awareness of national representation on the subject is old, but the tragedies that have affected some of our children and their families in recent months have reminded us of the urgent need to act and improve the response of the public authorities to situations of harassment. I recall that little Dinah, whom we talked about earlier, died a few kilometres from my permanence. It is becoming necessary to legislate – we have all understood it and affirmed it – with a view, in particular, to strengthening the provisions of the Education Code that protect against harassment and to offer justice a suitable tool through the creation of the offence of school harassment. However, nothing can be settled by law. We have seen the major role played by the Ministry of National Education, Youth and Sports; the proposed law, in particular its Article 1, tends to prolong its efforts. Some of the establishments I have visited in my constituency are already very advanced in this area, whether it is the application of the PHARE programme or other initiatives. Having listened to all the actors, I can testify to the fact that the results obtained are convincing; We must therefore continue in this direction. But not everything can be regulated by schools alone: under the impetus of national education, all the actors of society – parents, associations, local authorities, experts, therapists – must mobilize.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u61	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u62	A new offence of school harassment to combat a scourge that poisons the lives of students and, by ricochet, that of whole families: this is the main novelty of this bill. Nearly one in ten students would be affected each year and some are unfortunately pushed to the point of considering ending their lives. While the phenomenon is not entirely new, it cannot be denied that it has clearly worsened in recent years with the development of new technologies and social networks. Unfortunately, many of the tools to combat harassment and protect our children are too often overlooked or insufficiently used by school principals, teachers, but also and especially by families. Early detection of harassment is vital; It is also systematically and rapidly treated. Above all, everyone must be convinced that not a single act or act of harassment will go unpunished. This is the sine qua non for the effectiveness of such a bill. The creation of a specific crime is therefore a good thing, but it will not be enough if our children are not in confidence. To that end, the word is indispensable: it is the end of the omerta that will allow our children to raise their heads and put an end to a scourge that can be devastating for them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u63	You have the floor, Mrs Ménard, to support Amendment No 23.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u64	The definition of the new offence of school harassment should make it possible to denounce facts: violations of dignity, physical and mental health or learning conditions. It seems to me that there should be no question of the victim's behaviour or speech, otherwise we would risk clearing the perpetrator. There is no justification for school harassment. Even though I know that this is not your intention, rapporteur, we cannot therefore suggest that school harassment would have the origin of the victim's behaviour or remarks.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u65	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u66	[["Oh!" on the benches of the LR group]] This is not the first time that there have been problems of understanding between us, Mrs Ménard, but here the problem is purely lexical. Your amendment is based on a misconception, because the words and behaviour referred to in the third paragraph, which are the elements of harassment, are obviously not those of the victim but those of the perpetrators. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u67	The rapporteur's amendment No 45 is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u68	Mrs Geraldine Bannier has the floor to support Amendment No. 20.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u69	I propose the addition of the adjective "repeated" to qualify words and behaviours. Article 1 may relate to acts of school harassment between peers, that is true, but also to acts of harassment committed by adults against pupils. With experience in faculty, I am concerned about complaints of harassment that could be brought against teachers as a result of a single fact – a false word or a simple bad score given in the context of continuous monitoring in high school. As is well known, teachers are increasingly confronted, in the exercise of their duties, with complaints – sometimes well-founded, of course, but which may also be out of the question or fanciful.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u70	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u71	I understand your fears, Mrs Bannier, but the instructions that are being carried out make it possible to prevent this from happening; The investigators are doing their job. In addition, the change you are proposing would be problematic. See the definition of harassment in the Criminal Code: repeated acts may be committed by the same author, but also by different authors who would commit them only once each. Adding the word "repeated" could destabilize the scope of the text. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u72	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u73	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u74	Mrs Geraldine Bannier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u75	I fear, on the basis of my experience, a multiplication of harassment complaints. Repeated acts are from the victim's point of view: that each of her peers commits a single hostile act against her, she will indeed be harassed. In addition, I repeat, the adoption of this amendment would protect teachers from the proliferation of hasty complaints.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u76	The rapporteur's amendment No 46 is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u77	I call Mrs Jacqueline Dubois to support Amendment No. 64.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u78	This amendment by Mrs Colboc, who is in isolation, seeks to clarify in paragraph 4 that, like public and private higher education institutions, the network of academic works is taking appropriate measures to combat harassment. During the crisis of the covid-19, the Government decided to create 1,600 positions of student referents in university towns under the regional centres of academic and academic works (CROUS) to support and accompany their isolated or troubled peers. These referents, renewed for the current academic year, could see their mission reoriented towards the identification and accompaniment of students who are victims of harassment. If we want to combat this phenomenon effectively, it is important to involve all those involved in organizing student life in its prevention, detection and treatment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u79	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u80	I am sensitive to this proposal: it is in line with what we want, that is, the training of staff. Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u81	Amendment No 27 by Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u82	Mrs Isabelle Valentin has the floor to support Amendment No. 14.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u83	It provides for the strengthening of cooperation between official bodies within the framework of the "harassment" protocols established within institutions. The extension of consultation to the parents of pupils and their representatives would make it possible to provide specific solutions adapted to the complexity of the context.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u84	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u85	You are right, but the amendment is satisfied: paragraph 4 refers to the "educational community", which includes the parents of students associated with the school board. Consequently, the opinion was unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u86	I call Mrs Michèle Victory to support Amendment No. 62.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u87	I would like to take this opportunity to return to the question of the existence of the crime. On the "Harassment and school violence – Provocation to suicide" page of the service-public.fr website, there is the following text: "A minor is a victim of school harassment when a student repeatedly has aggressive statements or behaviour towards him or her. The victim can alert the school's management, complain on his own and ask for help from associations. They may also ask the court to criminally convict the harasser and to make reparation for their harm. The law punishes school harassment, but also school violence and incitement to suicide. I therefore find it difficult to understand the rapporteur's answer. As for the amendment, we have already discussed it in committee: we ask that the text explicitly mention gender-based and sexual violence, the frequency of which is beginning to be revealed. For the victims, both girls and boys, the resulting difficulties are enormous.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u88	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u89	On the first point, Mrs Victory, I propose to reply to you when we look at Article 4, which will promote clarity of debate. The second point has already been discussed in committee. You know my sensitivity to gender-based and sexual violence; But you don't have to mix everything. As Mr. Labille said, with additions and clarifications, we would eventually forget about the elements. However, it appears from the government mission report I have devoted to the subject that school harassment is a protein phenomenon and the multiple causes. To establish a list is to be sure that it will not be exhaustive and that harassers will escape the law. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u90	On Article 1, I am seized by the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland of a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 24.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u91	This is a clarification amendment to supplement the second sentence of paragraph 4 with the words "in particular to law enforcement or justice". The message sent to the harassers, who do not always measure the scope of their actions, must be very clear: such acts are absolutely illegal and can be punished, including by the justice of our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u92	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u93	The amendment is satisfactory, Mrs Ménard, because the services outside the institution to which the victims are directed obviously include those you mention: the contrary interpretation would be a serious problem. This is why magistrates and law enforcement officials are among the professionals whose article 3 provides that they will be trained to better listen to and respond to the requests of parents. I request the withdrawal of your amendment; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u94	Mr Raphaël Gérard has the floor to support Amendment No. 3.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u95	It is intended to clarify that both victims and perpetrators of school harassment may be referred by the institution's staff to associations that can adequately accompany them. Associations specializing in combating discrimination or harassment in schools complement that of the State services and have the necessary expertise to receive the words of those concerned, to provide the right answers, when the educational community finds itself deprived. This is particularly the case with regard to the fight against LGBTphobias in schools: the weight of taboo, shame, the fear of exposure to a form of outing, sometimes prevent the students concerned from confining themselves to teachers or administrative staff, who are sometimes uncomfortable to address issues related to sexuality and gender identity. I would like to welcome the mobilization of associations working in schools to prevent and defuse harassment situations – for example, in my constituency, the National Association for Assistance, Homosexual Defence, for Equal Sexual Orientation (ADHEOS). Their resources should be increased, within the framework of multi-annual agreements of objectives, to ensure that their action is sustainable and that they are able to take more action each year.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u96	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u97	On the substance, I fully agree, but this amendment would put us in the same situation as Mrs Ménard's No 24. Once again, we must avoid lists. However, perhaps the word "services" is awkward, and we could have written "to appropriate services and associations". In view of the legal concerns raised by the drafting of your amendment, Mr Gérard, I am obliged to express an unfavorable opinion. However, the text is only at first reading: in our negotiations with the Senate, I will ensure that your proposal is acted upon, because it is legitimate. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank the many associations that, at the local or national level, are remarkably accompanying the victims and perpetrators of school harassment and their families.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u98	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u99	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u100	Mr Raphaël Gérard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u101	Since we agree on the substance and this is indeed the first reading of the text, let us adopt the amendment: the legislative correction will take place during the shuttle.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u102	Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u103	I would like to take this amendment to point out that Article 1 remains very vague in terms of the characterisation of school harassment. Every term is ready to say again. First of all, harassment can be done not only by peers, comrades, but also by adults belonging to the educational community: in the latter case, mechanisms already exist. Secondly, it can take place within the educational institution, but also outside: what happens on the margins of the school is rather the consequence of what is happening in the school. Finally, it is up to the institutions to take the appropriate measures: in a way, the State is clearing customs,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u104	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u105	...because they need a lot of means to do that. This wave justifies the fact that amendments are intended to clarify the wording of the article, which I hope will be reworked for second reading.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u106	Mrs Frédérique Tuffnell has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u107	Let us not forget that there are sentinel students in the schools, who are doing a remarkable job. Last week, in Rochefort, in my constituency, a meeting on school harassment allowed me to find that they were actually helped to detect victims – a very difficult task when they did not report – by the specialized gendarmes of the House of Trust and Family Protection (MCPF). Thanks to this framework, it is possible to go much further, to leave the institution, since harassers are often victims of domestic violence themselves. So let's not add it to the text: we already have very effective tools and structures.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u108	Mrs Zivka Park has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u109	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] I understand the rapporteur's arguments regarding his willingness not to include in the law a whole list of people involved – we have already had this discussion in committee. In this case, the case mentioned in this amendment is a little different. Article 1 refers to appropriate services; to mention associations, which are real actors in the field of school harassment, would go in the right direction. That is why we are proposing, Mr rapporteur, to adopt this amendment, even if we then think about better drafting within the framework of the shuttle system; In this way we could at least take a stand with this amendment, which the Group of the European People's Party will vote for.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u110	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u111	I am in favour of mentioning associations and we will be able to reformulate the terms of the bill at a later stage. I already imagine the usual criticisms of senators, who will say that MPs do not write the law properly. It won't be the first time, and it's not a big deal. On the other hand, Mrs Rubin, you find the wording of Article 1 vague, imprecise and incomplete.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u112	It's Mrs. Rubin who's fuzzy!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u113	This writing is the result of the work of jurists and administrators of the National Assembly who write laws rather well usually – it is not the product of my work alone. I regret that you did not come to committee to make proposals: we could have debated them on a concrete basis. But, in this case, we're talking so that we don't say anything.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u114	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u115	Mr Raphaël Gérard has the floor to support Amendment No. 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u116	It should be recalled that meningation or refusal to use a pupil's first name of use are acts of school violence.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u117	We're not going that far!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u118	When exercised repeatedly by educational staff or other students, they constitute school harassment. On the other hand, it should be borne in mind that such violence kills. Recent research on the academic experience of young transgenderers in France has helped to target the risks of overexposure to harassment: 67% of the young people involved thus acknowledge that they had suicidal thoughts. In this context, it is essential that the school of the Republic, in accordance with the principles set out in articles L. 111-1 and L. 111-2 of the Education Code, guarantee unconditionally respect for the gender identity of pupils. It is therefore important that schools identify this specific issue in the context of the protocols to combat school harassment that they will have to develop.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u119	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u120	You know my support for the fight you're leading on these subjects. But we made a mistake by introducing this concept into this article, which aims to change the education code on the issue of school harassment. This may suggest that this is one of the only causes of school harassment, whereas this one, as I said earlier, is protein-forming: sometimes it is exercised because you are too big or too small, because you actually have a particular gender identity, because your hair color does not like it, because you are a good student or, on the contrary, a bad student. We would risk disturbing the message by adding items to the list. I agree with you that the issue of gender must be addressed within the school and, during this term of office, we have already made good progress on this subject, in particular through your vigilance and your work. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u121	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u122	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u123	Mr Guillaume Chiche has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u124	I support Mr Raphaël Gérard's amendment. As he explained very well, gender identity is very often the cause of very violent harassment in schools, as well as sexual orientation. That is why it would be useful to introduce the concept of gender identity into the education code, since this situation also responds to current events. As you know, Minister, the issue of gender identity, which creates victims in schools, also refers to the issue of non-binarity. The recent pseudo-polemics aroused around the "iel" pronoun that was entering a dictionary and the numerous mobilizations and communications condemning it, can lead to a form of harassment in the school environment. For this reason, because this is a topical issue, it seems to me very important to include in this text the singular case of gender identity.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u125	Mr Raphaël Gérard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u126	I hear your arguments perfectly, Mr rapporteur, and I know your commitment to respect for the gender identity of students, since you yourself have defended amendments to this effect in other texts. I also welcome the circular for better consideration of gender identity issues in schools issued by the Minister at the end of September, although only a part of the road has been covered, unfortunately. It met an expectation, but the question of the self-determination of transgender minors remains, since it remains a desire to hide behind parental authority. We all know that the distinction between the verbs "can" and "must" in the drafting of a text makes all the difference, even if it is regulatory. Just writing that a head of a school can report and bring back worrying information in the event of parents obstructing the development of their child who would like to assume his/her gender identity in the open is, in my view, a refusal of assistance. Yesterday, when we examined the bill presented by our colleague Albane Gaillot, we were told that the regulatory path – it was about the life of an unborn child – was not legally stable enough not to give rise to redundancy in the law on certain particular cases. Today we are talking about the lives of children or adolescents who are likely to act and commit suicide, because at no time will they have met with their families or during their school journey with attentive ears to accompany them. It is possible that the option that I propose is not the right one because it refers to a list, but this subject needs to be seriously addressed once and for all. However, I withdraw my amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u127	Mrs Geraldine Bannier has the floor to support Amendment No. 17.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u128	The aim is to move an amendment adopted in committee to provide information on the risks of school harassment and cyber-harassment to the parents of students each year.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u129	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u130	That's a very good idea. This paragraph had been inserted in Article 3 whereas it was not in its place; You will also subsequently defend an amendment to delete this paragraph in Article 3. Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u131	I call Mr Guillaume Chiche to support Amendment No. 9.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u132	It aims to establish an anti-harassment focal point in public and private schools and universities.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u133	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u134	Your amendment is satisfied for several reasons. On the substance, I think that one reference per institution is not the solution, especially since it would be a heavy responsibility to bear for a single reference. The solution is to mobilize a team. The minister will no doubt complement my point, but it is precisely the philosophy of the programs put in place, which include multidisciplinary teams of educational staff, teaching staff, or even maintenance staff – the more people will be able to listen to the children and free the word, the better. This is what we are deploying today, from a regulatory point of view, through the PHARE programme and the various decisions of the Minister of Education on this subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u135	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u136	To take up what the rapporteur has just said, the logic of this amendment is quite consistent with that which we are following: to have people in each institution responsible for these matters. The objective of establishing a referent is accompanied by the concept of a team. I have explained earlier that, thanks to the PHARE programme, there will be not only a reference, but also a team of at least five teachers trained in each institution, not to mention the training of pupils. In addition, each rectorate will have a team, either already existing or in the process of being set up, to intervene. As the rapporteur pointed out, the concept of a team is fundamental. It is not contradictory to that of referent, since it will be a team of referents. The amendment is therefore, in my view, largely satisfactory.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u137	I put Article 1 to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u138	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 89 Number of votes cast 87 Absolute majority 44 For adoption 87 Against 0
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u139	I call Mr Grégory Labille to support Amendments Nos 83 and 84, on the additional rule after Rule 1. They may be presented in a consolidated format.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u140	Proposal No. 19 of the report submitted to the Government in 2020 by the rapporteur to understand and combat school harassment calls for the provision of additional means for school heads, including in primary education, to commission surveys on the school climate and psychosocial risks within their schools. The aim of Amendment No 83 is relatively similar, since it obliges school principals to submit to the school board a report on school harassment in their school and the means used to combat this scourge. Amendment No 84 is intended to oblige them to submit the same report to their board of directors. While the President of the Republic has stressed that shame must change sides, it is necessary that institutions fully open their eyes to situations of harassment that occur within them. The Board of Directors, which brings together many educational actors, pupils and parents of pupils, as well as representatives of local and regional authorities or the administration, would make it possible to establish a coherent and effective policy to combat harassment in line with the educational project of the school.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u141	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u142	On the substance, I am in favour of the proposals put forward in these two amendments. But they are in the regulatory field. Let the regulations and decrees make this kind of provision so as not to complicate the law. I am not sure, I repeat, that they fall within our sphere of competence. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u143	I call Mr Grégory Labille to support Amendment No. 82, which is the subject of a sub-amendment No. 134 by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u144	It intends to include in the tasks of the Health, Citizenship and Environment Education Committee the fight against and prevention of school harassment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u145	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u146	I am in favour of this amendment, subject to the adoption of the drafting sub-amendment I have tabled.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u147	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u148	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u149	Mrs Agnès Firmin Le Bodo has the floor to support Amendment No. 112.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u150	School harassment is a real scourge, which we must fight tirelessly. Various measures have been taken to this end: creation of the 2030 hotline, online publication of the site "No to Harassment", designation of harassment references in each academy, deployment of the PHARE programme throughout the country, organisation in 2020 by UNESCO and the Ministry of National Education, Youth and Sports, of an international conference on combating harassment among pupils. The aim of this amendment is to further advance this fight by making it a major national cause by 2022. This label would give priority to combating the scourge of school harassment in our public policies. It would give greater visibility to the actions of actors on the ground – it would be an opportunity to pay tribute to associations fighting harassment – and would encourage them to develop new ones to eradicate this phenomenon, which still causes too many young people to suffer.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u151	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u152	I am in favour of your idea, Madam Member, but it raises a number of difficulties. First of all, the choice of major national causes is not our responsibility, but it is the responsibility of the executive. Then, our bill is likely to be passed in early 2022: the year will therefore begin, and the period devoted to this national cause will be reduced accordingly. It should also be noted that the Assembly has just voted on a resolution calling on the Government to make the protection of bees a major national cause by 2022. For all these reasons, my opinion is unfavorable. However, your proposal may be relevant for 2023, because the sooner we make the fight against school harassment a major national cause, the faster our fight will move forward. Once again, the decision is taken by the executive.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u153	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u154	As the rapporteur has explained, the main national causes are not within the legislative power. On the substance, however, I can only agree with your proposal. In recent years, especially since the National Day to Combat Harassment at School was held in November, we have been apprehensive of this topic as a major national cause – and it was in this fight that the first lady decided to engage. In a way, combating harassment is already a major multi-year national cause; If a year were to be specifically devoted to it, we should ensure that the soufflé does not fall back on the expiry of the label. In substance, I am in favour of your idea of setting school harassment as a major national cause in future times – your amendment has the merit of taking a date to that effect. Without having this official label yet, I repeat, we are already treating the fight against school harassment as a major national cause, which must be a priority for the French ministry and society as a whole, on a daily basis. Our discussions, as well as the unanimity with which we voted on section 1 of the bill, testify to our commitment. If a subject deserves communication, it's that one. Our speeches, our actions and the consensus we have are decisive, as speech and psychology are important in this regard. Although your proposal is in the right direction, I would ask you to withdraw your amendment, for the reasons expressed by the rapporteur. Otherwise, my opinion will be unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u155	Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u156	For once, I fully agree with you, Minister. The fight against school harassment must be a major national cause on a daily basis, at every moment. Two mechanisms now coexist: Sentinels and References on the one hand, and PHARE on the other. It would be a shame if the academies that have favoured the former – which proves to be very powerful – could not continue to deploy it, on the pretext that national education develops the latter. All available and proven means must contribute to the fight against school harassment every moment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u157	Mrs Agnes Chill has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u158	Two elements are missing from the bill, beginning with a relaxation of the school card. A harassed student must be able to be educated in the school that his or her family chooses. He's got to be protected. A harassed student must be able to continue to learn, to awaken, to flourish and to grow; But if he remains surrounded by his harassers and those who have done nothing or said nothing, the task will be impossible. A harassed student must feel protected by his or her parents and by the institution: the institution must allow his or her departure, exceptionally facilitate derogations from the school card, and, of course, allow family education. You will not prevent any father or mother, concerned about the well-being of his child, from removing him from an environment that aggravates him, to protect him – even to protect him from school, if that is where scratches occur. It is not conceivable that only the school should decide where a child who has been harassed should be educated. [[Mr. Grégory Labille applauds]] Nor is it conceivable that only the school institution should decide on the existence of harassment because, as you know, every institution is driven by body solidarity: this is the second failure of the text. In practice, children who complain – especially if they do so frequently – are sometimes kindly sent back to the land of their loneliness, without a ulterior thought. It is then too late: the child knows that in school, his suffering is neither understood nor heard. Sometimes he is only listened to by a loved one, a friend, a psychologist, neighbours, his parents or a treating doctor to whom he speaks in confidence. To the question: "Why don't you eat at school? "Because I'm being called fat," he says, among other examples. That is why the attending physician or a person outside the school institution must be able to decide on the existence of harassment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u159	Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u160	Article 3 is full of good intentions, but we wonder how they will be realized. I am thinking in particular of training in the prevention of harassment – an essential subject – which this article states should be followed by "all medical and paramedical personnel, social workers, magistrates, law enforcement officials, national education personnel and sports, cultural and leisure entertainment personnel". I am particularly concerned about national education staff. I recalled the figures during the general discussion: there is one school doctor for 12,500 students. You are not responsible, minister, for this deficiency has persisted for ten years or more. On the other hand, you didn't do anything to stop the trend. In institutions, who is involved in the fight against harassment, when staff is lacking? The situation is equally serious for school nurses, not to mention school life services. A SCE gave me the following testimony: "When you are the only SCE for 700 students, it is impossible to see everything. We can't cover all our missions. In particular, he mentioned the fundamental mission of combating harassment, which he did not have time to carry out. The bill enjoins the training of national education staff – very well! But is the staff that should be trained at least on the job? How to provide these trainings? The text does not answer: it has good intentions, but remains purely incantatory.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u161	Mrs Jacqueline Dubois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u162	This bill is welcome, even if we have not waited for it to denounce and combat the scourge of school harassment. The right to education without harassment was included in the law in 2019 for a school of trust. Since then, we have welcomed the many initiatives of associations and national education in this regard, but more needs to be done. Article 3 addresses a central theme: the prevention of school harassment, its identification and the care of its victims and perpetrators. It provides for professionals to be trained in these three aspects in their initial curriculum and in continuing training. It also provides for the inclusion in school and establishment projects of guidelines and procedures to prevent and deal with incidents of school harassment. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] More than others, some students find it difficult to express their suffering: harassment particularly affects students with disabilities, regardless of their age and learning environment. Unfortunately, the bill does not take this aspect into consideration. The vulnerability of these students and the extent of harassment against them were, however, the subject of an international meeting within the framework of the UNESCO Global Forum against Harassment. Our majority must act to protect the most fragile. Article 3 is certainly a milestone, but I would like us to go even further.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u163	Mrs Nathalie Porte has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u164	Article 3 is fundamental, as it highlights the continuing lack of training and awareness among staff who are likely to encounter, in the professional setting, young people suffering from harassment. The bill advocates an effort to train, but forgets a group of staff that is ubiquitous in schools: local government officials responsible for school catering, building maintenance and even building supervision. Harassment occurs not only during school hours, but also during the free time students spend in the school. It is therefore necessary to include these officers in the training effort, and to provide the communities that employ them with the means to bear the cost. I'm sure you've all, or almost all, already received parents or grandparents of children who have been harassed in your homes. We must take into account their anger or disarray, to prevent and protect future generations of students.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u165	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u166	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u167	As it deals with the prevention and protection of the physical and moral integrity of children, article 3 refers to the capacity of doctors and school psychologists to act. As Sabine Rubin pointed out, the bill has a laudable but incantatory intention, as school medicine and psychology are lacking in schools. In addition to being incantatory – acknowledge this, rapporteur – the text is dilatory: in a few weeks, indeed, in the context of the examination of the bill said 3DS we will decide on the transfer of responsibility of school medicine from national education to the departments. The current shortage of doctors and school psychologists will therefore be compounded by differential treatment between departments, which will not all apply the same policy. We found the same phenomenon, at the time, concerning specialized prevention: the departments carried out widely differentiated policies, undermining the need for single treatment. My colleague Elsa Faucillon has drawn your attention to this major risk, and we would like a clear answer.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u168	Mrs Tamarelle-Verhaeghe has the floor to support Amendment No. 122.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u169	We all strive to combat the stacking of measures specific to French culture – in this case, we must avoid creating a thousand-sheet of trainings and themes. Harassment refers to violence against children and to their physical, psychological, moral and social integrity: it is therefore a question of comprehensive health. When will we be able to understand the health of children in a comprehensive manner, giving them the necessary resources? This is a subject that I regularly ask you about, Minister, and many of my colleagues have pointed out that we lack resources in school medicine. However, it is crucial to deal with many of the health problems facing children. Rather than adding a layer to the existing system, which already includes training on child protection, let us ensure that the system is operational, and let us ask ourselves whether it is appropriate to include a module on harassment. Prefer a comprehensive approach to scattered initiatives that will not contribute to the preservation of children's health. Let us try to promote a more comprehensive approach together, because an organization in silo, as it currently exists, does not benefit from the promotion of the health of our children.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u170	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u171	You are right: there is already a special training course on the protection of children at risk, which is aimed at some of the professionals in the sector concerned. The training on school harassment is very specific. Adults working with children must have the capacity to understand the phenomenon in its diversity and complexity. The goal, in fact, is that they are able to free the child's word. The existence of these specific training courses is therefore necessary. Article 3 of the draft law, the current wording of which is derived from the work of the commission, is much broader: it concerns all national education staff. You wish to amend article L. 542-1 of the Education Code, but it only applies to teachers. Working for two years on the issue of school harassment, I have met and consulted not only all the actors involved, the associations, but also the victims themselves, some of whom have come to see me on their own: they all tell me that it is essential to be able to speak to any adult present in the institution. Some children will refuse to mention their situation to a teacher, not because they do not trust him, but because he represents authority within the class. Sometimes they don't feel comfortable; They must therefore be able to speak to someone else, whether they are other educational staff present on the spot or, why not, someone who would be specifically trained in this area – it is the aim of the PHARE programme to train as many people as possible to be able to listen to and deal with children's words. The child who is in need of it could go to that person to tell him or her of his or her problem, and the child could conduct an interview with him or her. This is what needs to be developed among the procession of people who intervene with children: all must be, as far as possible, able to gather their word. Of course, not all will have received the most advanced training in this area, but if harassment becomes a central topic, one of the main topics of discussions between colleagues, the required skill will be disseminated within the collective. In my view, this is how we will be able to combat school harassment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u172	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u173	In reply, Madam Member, I will also respond to several of the interventions that have been made on section 3. Many rightly stressed the human resources that are being used for the policy to combat school harassment. I will insist on two points of answer. Firstly, as the rapporteur has just pointed out, the response must have a systemic dimension and must concern all adults in the establishment. It is therefore essential that they are all trained on this subject. Otherwise, we risk compartmentalizing – that's the risk we run in terms of all the problems related to school life more generally – and thus giving rise to a form of hyperspecialisation in each field. However, as other school systems do abroad, on the contrary, we must encourage cross-cutting accountability of all actors. We must keep this requirement in mind. However – and this is my second point – the specific intervention of some staff remains particularly relevant: I am thinking in the first place of social and health personnel. It is true that on issues of harassment, in particular, the nurse is on the front line. Several of you have pointed out that we lack human resources to deal with this issue: this is partly true, but such an assertion still needs to be put into perspective. First of all, and this is the main news that I want to share with you in this area, we are going to create, for the coming year, that of 2022 – it is provided for in the budget that you recently voted – 300 positions of Senior Education Advisors. It's totally new! I do not remember that this has already been done. It is obviously completely linked to the subject we are dealing with today, that of the school climate. We know how the CPEs – I take this opportunity to pay tribute to them – play a key role in our education system, in our colleges and high schools. The function remains very attractive, down from the problems of attractiveness which may sometimes exist in the school environment and which were stressed again yesterday, on the occasion of questions to the Government. The new EPCs that will arrive, whose number is expected to multiply, will have a decisive role to play in improving the school climate. It is therefore a mistake to think that, in this respect, we are in a situation of shortage. Second, it is also customary to say that the positions of doctors and school nurses are not attractive. Of course, this is particularly true of school doctors and measures still have to be taken to enhance their profession. It will have to be done in the coming times, and we have also begun by increasing their wages and bonuses; We will continue to do so. It must be said that out of 1505 posts, only 631 are filled. So there is a real problem that I am the first to stress. I hope that the measures we are taking to strengthen their attractiveness will make their first effects felt in the coming year. This must also go – as some have said – through cooperation with the departments and, more generally, with the other health structures involved in the school, in particular the PMI – maternal and child protection. Such a dynamic will need to be strengthened in the future. School nurses, on the other hand, are not affected by this problem of under-consumption. Of the 7680 delegated jobs, 7705 are used: we are even dealing with an overconsumption of jobs, which is completely justified. Although we may still wish for more, we have a large number of school nurses. However, this is not yet enough and additional posts will still have to be created in the coming years, if only to address some of the serious consequences of the covid epidemic -19, including the increase in psychological problems - and more generally of health. Finally, as far as social workers are concerned, all 2844 jobs are filled. There is also a need to strengthen cooperation in this area – I would point out that there are social workers who depend on the departments and that it is teamwork that will enable us to deal with the problems we face. I am therefore quite prepared to recognise that the means must be strengthened in this area: they are, precisely, strengthened in the framework of the PLF by 2022. Cooperation must also be strengthened: it will be strengthened, we are sure, thanks to developments that remain desirable. But I insist: important resources already exist and important developments are under way. The subject is not closed: our action has evolved and will continue to do so. That is what I wanted to add to the rapporteur's opinion, in response to your comments: it is essential that we succeed in implementing a systemic work of cooperation between the actors concerned, be they social or medical. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u174	Mrs Marie Tamarelle-Verhaeghe has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u175	I would just like to bring a clarification to the attention of the rapporteur: unless I am mistaken, all the staff you are quoting are already covered by Article L. 542-1 of the Education Code. In addition, the problems faced by children are often the subject of specific training – not only harassment but also sexual assault, for example, or exposure to domestic violence. As the minister rightly says – and I would like us to go in that direction – we must not compartmentalize. In terms of health promotion, we still need to build a truly solid foundation that must be supported by trained public health professionals. I take note of your announcements but we need to do a real substantive work on the place of the medical profession in schools: if very ambitious measures are not taken very quickly, it will unfortunately disappear.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u176	Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor in support of Amendments Nos 63 and 65, which can be presented together.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u177	Mr rapporteur, you said that the scope of our action should not be limited to certain levels of study, and you said that you wanted to include higher education and research. It therefore seemed logical to mention them, by amendment No. 65, by adding "higher education and research" to the first sentence of paragraph 1 of this article. Indeed, this community has been marked by numerous harassment cases, whether in universities, IEPs – institutes of political studies – or art schools: no field is really spared and many testimonies have been made about it. If we want to strengthen prevention at all levels, it seems to us to be important to bring such precision to this place. The following amendment relates to the collection of the words of victims of school harassment. Of course, we have already talked about training issues, but it really seems to us essential to take into account the fact that gathering a child's word is not so obvious. It is not enough, in fact, to put the child in front of an adult and to tell him to speak. No, things don't happen this way: making a child speak requires fine training. We would therefore like to stress explicitly that a climate of trust is necessary for speech to emerge, for example by making it clear in paragraph 6 of this article that "a protocol relating to the collection and treatment of the speech of victims of school harassment" must be included in the school or school project. Indeed, simply saying that the child can speak to an adult is not enough: it is more complicated than that.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u178	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u179	You supported Amendments Nos 65 and 70 instead of 63 and 65; I therefore believe that you have supported them in disorder – this can happen. Amendment No 63 is intended to mention "the entire educational community" rather than "national education staff". The educational community, as defined in the Education Code, includes pupils and their parents. So they're not professionals! We're still not going to train the parents – even if it might sometimes be worth it! Anyway, I'm not sure we can put it in the law. As far as Amendment No 65 is concerned, it does address a major concern, but it seems difficult to apply. I really agree with the principle: in theory, it's a pretty good idea. However, there is no initial training identified to become a researcher or teacher in the superior: unlike secondary teachers, the paths of those who practice at this level are varied. Request for withdrawal; I do not see how such a measure could be applied and its adoption would have no concrete effect.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u180	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u181	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u182	Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u183	I just wanted to make it clear that, if parents are not administratively part of the educational community, they belong entirely to it from the point of view of the day-to-day functioning of the institutions, as in fact the territorial agents who can, for example, be paid by the departments. We could therefore include in the text that they are associated – without being trained – with educational actions on school harassment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u184	I call Mr Grégory Labille to support Amendment No. 89.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u185	It is intended to amend, in article 3, the reference to article 222-33-2-3 of the Criminal Code: it seems essential that the training activities of teachers and supervisors, as well as the proposed establishment, take into account all situations of harassment and not only acts constituting an offence of harassment within the meaning of that article. Thus, reference to article L. 111-6 of the Education Code seems more appropriate with regard to training and prevention measures. I want to take this opportunity to talk about Salvador's history. Born in 2006, he is an early child who is bored in school and who enters college at 9 years of age, two years in advance, and is in boarding school with students between 12 and 15 years of age. Although early, Salvador did not know how to write when entering the sixth grade and used a computer. Despite his disability, he does not benefit from an AVS – school life assistant. At the boarding school, his comrades break his computer; he denounces the fact but no sanction is taken. In class, some teachers refuse to let him use his computer; So he has to write but his writing is illegible, which in these cases is worth zero. In the third, despite an average of 14/ 20, he was refused secondment due to a lack of maturity. At the baccalaureate level, a sustained intervention by the academic doctor is required in order for the principal to agree to apply to Salvador the arrangements provided for in the GEVA-sco – guide for assessing the need for compensation in terms of schooling. It is clear, therefore, that harassment can take different forms. So of course, we can call 3020. But this refers again to the history of Salvador. In Grade 2, he was harassed by a comrade. He is a particular student: he is at HPI – high intellectual potential –, dysgraphic, dyspraxic, dyslexic and his disability, which prevents him from writing, obliges him, as we have said, to use a computer. He was then beaten, kicked, mocked. This accumulation prompted his mother to compose the 3020. She falls on the rectorate and explains the situation, then the rectorate contacts the principal of the school, but we stay there. The case was closed and harassment continued: eventually, the press would have had to be questioned if the situation in El Salvador was to be taken into account and those acts would cease. So yes, 3020 may be useful, but we need to make sure that parents' complaints are taken into account.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u186	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u187	When it comes to the perpetrator and the victim of harassment, it seems to me better to refer to the definition of the penal code, the wording of which is more precise and even millimetred. Article L.111-6 of the Education Code mentions the article of the Penal Code from which you wish to delete the reference in article 3. Without expanding the content of the harassment training, the wording you are proposing would be a source of additional complexity. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u188	Mrs Albane Gaillot has the floor to support Amendment No. 33.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u189	As we said earlier: harassment situations in the social media age are generally correlated with cyber-harassment, which means that victims can be harassed at any time and anywhere. Cybersexism particularly affects young girls, who are insufficiently protected. Cybersexism was defined by the Hubertine Auclert Center in its study "Cybersexism among adolescents.e.s (12-15 years old) – Sociological study in the Franciscan institutions from the 5th to the second". This study demonstrates the correlation between daily sexism and increasing violence on social networks, through the recording of mainly sexual elements on telephones and computers. The e-Enfance association also showed in a study that 51% of cyber-harassment victims were 13-year-old girls on average. The confinement of 2020 saw the explosion of the number of accounts disclosing intimate photos of minors, as denounced by the association Stop Fisha. However, minor victims of revenge porn are still very poorly accompanied and poorly protected. One of the reasons for the lack of protection of girls against cybersexism and victims of cyber-harassment in general is the inadequate training of school and law enforcement personnel. It therefore seems essential that the specificities of cyberharassment and cybersexism be taken into account in the training of professionals working in contact with students. This amendment proposes to include the fight against cyberharassment and cybersexism in the training of staff covered by the article.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u190	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u191	This is again an amendment that sets out a list of potential harassment situations. The definition of the criminal code is sufficient, reliable and legally secure. If cyberharassment and cybersexism were added to this definition, then we should also add all the other types of "cyber" harassment that are developing and that we are not yet familiar with. I invite you to withdraw the amendment, Mrs Gaillot, because he is satisfied. The judge dealing with a case of harassment will, of course, consider situations of cyberharassment and cybersexism. That is precisely the purpose of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u192	All right! The spirit of the law!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u193	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u194	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u195	Mrs Albane Gaillot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u196	Did I misunderstand Mrs Bannier's Amendment No 17 which we adopted earlier? It seemed to me that he added the notion of cyber-harassment to that of school harassment in article 1. I suggest that you add the notion of cybersexism, which is another form of cyberharassment and school harassment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u197	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u198	Amendment No 17 concerns information on the risks of school harassment and cyber-harassment to parents of pupils. It is therefore not intended to change the definition of the content of staff training. In addition, Mrs Bannier's amendment preserves the broad acceptance of the text, with cyberharassment including cybersexism.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u199	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No 47.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u200	As a result of the Commission's work, it aims to answer a question expressed on all the benches since it extends the offer of continuing training relating to school harassment to all persons involved in educational institutions, including officials of local authorities and private education staff. After the initial training discussed in the first part of Article 3, we therefore refer here to continuing training, which is not compulsory but which is of interest here. In addition, it is important to mention local government officials who are not national education staff but who work in colleges and high schools, as Ms Victory asked earlier.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u201	Mrs Jacqueline Dubois has the floor to support Amendment No. 44.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u202	As I pointed out earlier, students with disabilities are particularly affected by harassment and need to be better protected by the educational community. I therefore propose to add to the article of the Education Code on the schooling of these pupils a sentence which reads: "The relationship of pupils with their peers with disabilities is subject to vigilance with regard to increased harassment. »
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u203	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u204	I repeat: it is counterproductive to identify all possible cases of school harassment, because we will not end it. I ask you to withdraw your amendment, Mrs Dubois; Otherwise, my opinion will be unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u205	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u206	Clearly, students with disabilities are more exposed to the risk of school harassment than others, and your amendment has the merit of reminding the honourable senator. The next campaign to combat school harassment organized by the Ministry of National Education, Youth and Sports will focus in part on this topic. However, I share the arguments put forward by the rapporteur on this amendment – and indeed on the others. Indeed, it does not seem appropriate to specify the text excessively, for a principal question and for a practical reason. In terms of principles, the bill implements our republican motto Freedom, equality, fraternity and, in this case, the principle of equality. Our school system is based on a universal principle: every child must feel good in school; So none of us should be harassed, whatever the reason – it's as simple as that, and that's what motivated the last circular we issued. The fight against harassment is not justified because of the child's characteristics, but because of his or her very status as a child: it is because he or she is a child that he or she must be protected. Of course I share your intentions, Mrs Dubois, but it seems to me dangerous to create categories, which would create a contrario voids and could even have a counterproductive effect from the point of view of the principles that guide us. Our Republic's values meet a requirement of universality and oppose any categorization of individuals into groups that should be specifically protected. I am personally very attentive to the fulfilment of this requirement, particularly in order to avoid the normative inflation that complicates our action. I understand the spirit of your amendment and I believe, like you, that we must ensure that students with disabilities are protected because they are more fragile than others and more exposed to the risk of harassment. However, the bill already responds to your concern. That is why I invite you to withdraw the amendment, Mrs Dubois.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u207	Mrs Jacqueline Dubois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u208	I understand your arguments so well, Mr Minister, Mr rapporteur, that my amendment proposes, not to add a category to the text, but to mention the fight against harassment in the part of the education code devoted to students with disabilities. Let me point out that these children are not harassed during school time, but often in the canteen during lunchtime. It would therefore be desirable for local authority staff present at that time to be involved in training in schools on combating harassment. I do not know whether we will consider an amendment to that effect, but the amendment I tabled was considered inadmissible.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u209	We have just adopted an amendment which contains precisely this measure: Amendment No 47!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u210	In any event, I withdraw my amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u211	The rapporteur's amendment No 48 is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u212	Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor to support Amendment No. 70.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u213	I have already defended it, but I would like to add a comment in response to what was said earlier. As regards the collection of the words of the victims of school harassment, which is the subject of this amendment, it does not seem to me that a call number is a satisfactory solution. When we know the victims' difficulty in reporting the acts they are suffering, it is hard to imagine that a telephone number will make it easier for them to speak out. They need people in the flesh and bone in front of them, able to decipher their discourse. That is why we are asking for trained people to be present in schools to establish a real relationship with students.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u214	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u215	The details of the amendment fall within the regulatory area. Protocols exist, some of which work well. It does not seem appropriate to include them in the bill. The intention of this amendment is commendable, but my opinion is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u216	I have before me four amendments, Nos 15, 71, 87 and 67, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 15 and 71 are identical. Mrs Isabelle Valentin has the floor in support of Amendment No 15.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u217	Its purpose is to strengthen the integration of parents and their representatives into the anti-harassment protocols in schools. The latter must strengthen the dialogue between families and official bodies, as some have done in the context of the establishment project, with the establishment of special commissions. Many parents now feel destitute in the face of the suffering of their children. They would like to be more involved in the choice of solutions offered by the institution. They are best placed to explain their child's distress and its consequences on a daily basis. They must therefore be involved in the consultation process.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u218	I call Mrs Jacqueline Dubois to support Amendment No. 71.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u219	The purpose of this amendment is to involve student and parent representatives in the development of the strategy for the prevention and treatment of harassment. Concertation on combating harassment should allow for a dialogue of trust between families and the educational community. The representatives of the parents of the pupils are able to explain the distress of a child, the consequences of this distress on his day-to-day life and the paths they have envisaged. They can also help identify specific solutions depending on the local context. The amendment also proposes to involve student representatives, which would allow the educational community to benefit from their view of harassment situations. Involved them in the development of the school guidelines for the school harassment project would also be a good way to raise awareness of problem situations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u220	I call Mr Grégory Labille to support Amendment No. 87.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u221	It aims to involve student and parent representatives in the selection of school harassment guidelines and procedures for the school project. While students and their parents are the main people affected by harassment, it seems normal to seek their views in the development of a strategy to combat these practices. Teachers sometimes find it difficult to identify harassment situations in their schools. The association of pupils and pupils' parents in the fight against school harassment would therefore make it possible to consult them on the measures taken in the institution to combat harassment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u222	I call Mrs Michèle Victory to support Amendment No. 67.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u223	Like the previous ones, the project aims to better involve parents' representatives in the development of school harassment guidelines for the school project. However, it should be noted that parents of harassing students and parents of harassed students should be involved in the fight against harassment. Families of harassing children need, like others, to participate in the development of solutions for the care of victims. In any case, the mobilization of parents is very important in the fight against school harassment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u224	What is the committee's opinion on these amendments under joint discussion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u225	Their intention is good, but they are doubly satisfied in fact. The school project was drawn up with the educational community, of which parents were members, and it was adopted by the school council, in which representatives of the parents of pupils were represented. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u226	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u227	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u228	Mrs Karine Lebon has the floor to support Amendment No. 78.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u229	The allocation of new missions to the educational community, doctors, nurses, psychologists and social workers must be accompanied by sufficient resources. Mr. Minister, you have announced the creation of 300 CPE positions, while recognizing that school medicine is not an account. Currently, there is one school doctor on duty for 1,572 students. The same applies to school nurses, the only representatives of school medicine in schools. Repeated attacks on this profession, including the departmentalization of school medicine provided for in Bill 3DS, weaken the identification and support of child victims or perpetrators of harassment. The health crisis has highlighted this lack of resources that leads these professionals to abandon such essential tasks as contributing to inclusive schools or monitoring the most vulnerable children. We are all convinced that education is the key, but we must still have the means to achieve our ambitions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u230	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u231	I agree with you about the lack of school medicine. Last year, I tabled an amendment to give it more resources. But it's not just a matter of means, school medicine has to solve a human resource problem. The doctors are missing and the positions you propose to create would not be filled.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u232	At least they'll exist!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u233	In addition, the wording you are proposing has no legal effect, it is an appeal amendment. I share your concern about this complex subject, but disagree with it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u234	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u235	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u236	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u237	We share the observation on the state of school medicine, and the minister has indicated that we are moving towards cooperation with the departments, as part of the forthcoming departmentalization. Minister, we would like some further information on this refined cooperation with the departments, notwithstanding our opposition to the 3DS Act. In addition, the attractiveness of the medical profession in schools, which is systematically opposed to us, is correlated with that of all medical professions. That is why we will defend tomorrow a bill that tends to make compulsory the assignment of doctors, especially in the field of school medicine – and God knows if the needs are urgent! We therefore hope that the various arrangements that we propose will receive the attention of the majority.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u238	I have before me four amendments, Nos 109, 7, 69 and 68, which can be discussed jointly. Mrs Blandine Brocard has the floor to support Amendment No. 109.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u239	Article 3, paragraph 7, refers to "physicians, school nurses and psychologists and social workers". These professionals gravitate into the school world and we need them. But in a number of schools, especially in rural areas, there are not all these staff to supervise and assist children. I propose to link associations working against harassment to the school project. They are present throughout our territory and are aware of these issues.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u240	Mr Raphaël Gérard has the floor to support Amendment No. 7.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u241	I would like to return to the role of associations in this bill. We have taken a first step in Article 1e r by recognizing their role in assisting and caring for perpetrators and victims. I think we need to go further. While some conservative movements claim that our children are indoctrinated in school and denounce the supposed abuses of anti-racism and the fight against homophobia, for which they hold associations accountable, it is not unnecessary to recall that they are members of the educational community and therefore participate in the fulfilment of the tasks of the public education service. Their expertise is valuable in understanding the roots of school harassment and they play a fundamental role in raising awareness among staff and students. These associations therefore have a full place in the school of the Republic and it is appropriate that the staff take them into consideration in the framework of the establishment project, in order to have the most suitable procedures and vade-mecums to combat and prevent school harassment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u242	Mrs Jacqueline Dubois has the floor in support of Amendments Nos 69 and 68, which can be presented together.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u243	We would like to point out that representatives of the educational community can draw on the expertise of school harassment and cyber-harassment associations to develop guidelines and procedures to combat harassment, as well as to provide information to parents of students on the risks associated with school harassment and cyber-harassment. These associations, among them Hugo!, the Butterflies or France victims, are third parties of trust who know perfectly the springs of the phenomena of harassment and the effective means to combat them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u244	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u245	Opinion against all these amendments. The proposed actions are already possible because the approved associations are part of the educational community. The amendments are therefore satisfied in this respect. Some associations find it difficult to enter schools, but I understand the desire of national education to monitor and apply for approval the associations involved in schools. An association that intervenes within the school must respect the values of freedom, equality, fraternity and secularism. It is already possible to do what you propose, and it is necessary to maintain the accreditation system which allows the national education to decide which associations enter the schools and can work on these subjects. Associations obviously play a crucial role, they are strong forces, bringing creative ideas, knowledge of the subject and experience born from the fact that they have often been created by victims. It must be used, but within a well-defined framework.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u246	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u247	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u248	Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u249	The associations, provided that they are approved, are interesting partners to intervene with national education. Similarly, high school homes are self-governing associations within high schools that can develop initiatives in this direction. However, I have heard the minister speak of coordination, of articulation, to create a symbiosis between all these people. But all this takes a crazy time! Do you know how long the meeting is going to take? The minister has announced that he will recruit 300 CPEs, I welcome them, but it is likely that the efforts to articulate and coordinate all these actors will be time-consuming. Thus, it is the role of a school principal to work with her community and the associations, when we know how much they are taken over by administrative work, to the point of not being able to carry out their teaching mission. I want to warn about the time lost in organizing these cooperations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u250	Mr Bruno Fuchs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u251	Beyond practical aspects, these amendments are structural and fundamental. As we have been saying since the beginning of this session, much of the harassment takes place outside schools, in building halls or on social networks. Schools should not be left solely responsible for resolving such situations. They are a central element, within a set of actors, including law enforcement and associations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u252	I call Mr Grégory Labille to support Amendments Nos 86 and 85, which can be presented in a consolidated format.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u253	Amendment No 86 seeks to involve in the implementation of school or establishment projects the harassment references designated in each academy and department. These referents are sometimes direct intermediaries in the resolution of harassment-related problems and their experience and training must be used to define the best procedures for combating harassment in schools. As for Amendment No 85, it provides that pupils who will be appointed ambassadors against harassment in their college or high school will be involved in the development of the guidelines and procedures for the school or school project to combat harassment. While these students will be at the heart of the new system put in place by the national education system, their views and experience on what is happening in the classrooms, between the students, or outside the school, will enable them to set up arrangements in line with the problems of the school.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u254	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u255	These amendments, which are regulatory in nature, are satisfied. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u256	On Article 3, I have a request from the La République en marche group for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mrs Geraldine Bannier has the floor in support of Amendment No 18.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u257	We propose the deletion of this paragraph, which has been moved.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u258	Mrs Souad Zitouni has the floor to support Amendment No. 129.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u259	We propose that a charter be annexed to the rules of procedure in order to make teachers and students aware of the harassment and its consequences on the victims.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u260	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u261	This amendment also seems to me to be satisfactory. The proposed charter may be one of the tools that institutions will use, but its definition falls within the regulatory area. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u262	Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor to support Amendment No. 72.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u263	We would like a decree to specify the conditions of this chapter and to list the availability of access to the competent health personnel to deal with the victims of school harassment in public and private schools and colleges. The Minister acknowledged that the numbers of school doctors and psychologists were far from the point of view. It is very good to talk about a training offer for health personnel, but if we remain at this stage, with such a lack of resources, we will not achieve the objective. To the extent that the shortage is real and health workers do not have time to devote to these problems, it is important to provide that a decree will detail the conditions under which the provisions of this law will be implemented.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u264	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u265	I do not see very well the purpose of the amendment and how it could relate to the hierarchy of standards: a decree does not seem to me to be intended to list access to health workers. Your objective, moreover commendable, could rather lead to the drafting of a report on the state of school medicine, which would be submitted to Parliament as part of its monitoring and evaluation mission. That would make more sense to me. Such work can be undertaken. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u266	Mrs Agnes Chill has the floor to support Amendment No. 88.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u267	It is intended to allow parents of a harassed child to change their school during the school year or at school, regardless of the limits imposed by the school card. When a child is well integrated into an institution, there are friends and good friends, and he is subjected to the tyranny of a minority who harass him, the change of school can obviously be experienced as a tragedy and is not necessarily in his interest. But it is the child's interest that we must keep in mind in the fight against school harassment. On the other hand, when a child suffers the bullying of some of his comrades to the point of being desocialized, of no longer wanting to go to school, so to put his future at risk, a solution must be found. While prevention and the fight against harassment represent our best weapons to combat this scourge, we must not rely on a single strategy in the hope that it will solve all the problems. Even if the present text proves to be effective and the Government's strategy allows for progress, there will always be situations in which students, left unsolved in the face of their aggressors, will retreat into their loneliness. Parents are not completely unsolved, since they can always register their child in a private institution, even if the latter is outside of their sector. In addition to being a terrible admission of failure for public education, this is above all a terrible inequality for families who cannot afford to place their child in a private school, with sometimes high fees. In order to restore some equality, we must therefore allow the families concerned to change their school child during the year or at the start of the school year, without taking into account the constraints of the school card, which must be relaxed in such circumstances. The wording of this amendment is based on a provision in article 49 of the Act which reinforces the observance of the principles of the Republic, which allows a family to withdraw without delay its child from a school to provide him with family education when he is harassed at school. The aim is to create an equivalent mechanism to allow for the change of place of business.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u268	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u269	Such derogations already exist and can be implemented quickly. In addition, each case in which a school child is changed is problematic: the student does not necessarily want to change it and there is no reason why he or she should be forced to do so. This is the whole purpose of the work that we have undertaken and that we still have to do to ensure that education professionals and teachers are trained – we insist on this point since the beginning of the examination of the text – to detect and deal with harassment situations very quickly and to deal with them very quickly. As everyone knows: the sooner a solution to the problem is proposed for school harassment, the less serious the damage is. Unfavourable notice: Not only is your request met, but the change of institution is not always the best solution for a child who is a victim of harassment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u270	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u271	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u272	Mrs Anne Brugnera has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u273	I fully agree with the rapporteur. I would point out that the school card falls within the competence of the communes and that the latter, unfortunately, are already obliged to manage such situations: when it is necessary, as a last resort, to change a school child – with the agreement of the latter and his parents, of course – it is possible that the transfer takes place between two public schools or between a private school and a public school. Even in very large cities like Lyon, which has 38,000 children in 200 schools, municipalities can manage these special cases with all the humanity and speed needed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u274	Mrs Agnes Chill has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u275	Thank you for that clarification. I can hear what our colleague has said about the city of Lyon. In my personal capacity, I was elected in an electoral district with 173 communes, some of which have only one school, and many inter-municipal educational groups (IPPs). Due to the current rigidity of the school card, the families concerned are forced to go to the private sector. But many cannot afford it. That is why I believe it is essential, as we have done for family education (FEI), to relax the school card for all families living in a municipality with only one school.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u276	I put Rule 3 to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u277	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 78 Number of votes cast 76 Absolute majority 39 For adoption 76 Against 0
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u278	Mrs Jacqueline Dubois has the floor to support Amendment No 40, which adds an additional Rule after Rule 3.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u279	In order to better combat discrimination, school harassment and other forms of violence in schools, the Ombudsman, in her November 2021 report, recommends that "the teaching of rights education modules, as provided for in school curricula, be made systematic and effective". The amendment is therefore intended to include in the Education Code that "school training includes specific provisions to combat discrimination, school harassment and other forms of violence in schools". I recall that in France, the number of children harassed every year in their school environment is estimated at 700000 – an alarming figure in view of the consequences of harassment for victims, both on their mental health and on their right to education.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u280	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u281	This request seems to me to be fully satisfied. Request for withdrawal; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u282	I call Mrs Sabine Rubin to support Amendment No. 107.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u283	I would like to take this opportunity to return to Amendment No 105, which has fallen and has therefore not been discussed. It dealt with in-service training on the prevention of school harassment. While this training, in the current drafting of the text, is optional, we wanted to make it mandatory. It is well known that school heads or inspectors, for reasons of lack of time and resources, regularly reject requests for training made by teachers in particular. If training were compulsory, such refusals would no longer be necessary. Turning to the amendment, we propose to strengthen equality education in school curricula, from kindergarten to high school, so that each student learns to understand and accept differences, and to reject all forms of discrimination – be it sexism, homophobia, racism, transphobia or all forms of discrimination related to physical appearance. These issues need to be included in the programs for behaviour to change effectively.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u284	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u285	Of course, we all agree, but your request is fully met by the various articles of the Education Code relating to teachings. For example, article L. 121-1 refers to "respect for human rights as well as an understanding of the concrete situations that affect it." Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u286	I have before me three amendments, Nos 39, 59 and 96, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 39 and 59 are identical. I call Mr Grégory Labille to support Amendment No. 39.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u287	In cases where the physical or moral integrity of a child is threatened within the school, the child must be able to leave the school without such a decision being dependent on the ability of the parents or the validation of an educational project. As required by the child's state of health or disability, parents should, where appropriate, benefit from the free public distance education service, in order to ensure that the children concerned have equal access to education.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u288	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Anthoine to support Amendment No. 59.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u289	It is important to include in the law the right of the child to leave his or her school in cases where his or her physical or moral integrity is threatened, without such a choice being subject to conditions relating to the ability of the parents or to the validation of an educational project.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u290	Mrs Sonia Krimi has the floor to support Amendment No. 96.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u291	The aim of this bill is to define school harassment and criminalize it as an autonomous offence. This is a major issue, and a strong response is needed. For the sake of consistency and in order to strengthen the fight against this phenomenon, it seems to me important to include in the law that school harassment fully justifies family education, a proposal which I had already defended in the course of the examination of other texts. I know that such a provision may prove complex to implement: so I will let the experts answer on this point.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u292	What is the committee's opinion on these amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u293	I repeat: whenever a student can be prevented from leaving school for acts of harassment, action must be taken to that effect. Your request, in fact, is fully satisfied. We have defended this measure in the consideration of the bill to uphold the principles of the Republic, as part of the debate on family education, by including the issue of school harassment. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u294	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u295	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u296	Mrs Anne Brugnera has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u297	I will not go back to the debates that took place during the consideration of the bill to uphold the principles of the Republic, but we did address the issue of harassment, which may lead some children and their parents to choose family education at some point in the course of school. The grounds for applying for and issuing a family education permit provided for in the Act include situations of school harassment. We have even set specific deadlines for this. Your request is therefore fully satisfied.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u298	I have before me three identical amendments, Nos 37, 56 and 95. I call Mr Grégory Labille to support Amendment No. 37.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u299	According to Erwan Balanant's report on school harassment, school principals tend to minimize harassment situations, particularly cyber-harassment. While there is, of course, a need for better training of school principals in the detection of school harassment and in the support of the pupils concerned, it is also important to allow the child in need to obtain a solution other than schooling in his or her school, in the event that his or her physical or moral integrity is threatened or that he or she needs to be rebuilt away from his or her aggressors. However, article 49 of the law, which reinforces the observance of the principles of the Republic, which will enter into force at the beginning of the school year, has introduced a compulsory consultation – which has become, in the decree implementing the law, a compulsory certificate of the head of the institution – before any emergency de-schooling, which does not allow children to be protected effectively. The purpose of this amendment is therefore to amend the Education Code in order to remove the compulsory agreement of the school principal and thus to allow families to benefit from an emergency drop-out, on presentation of the proof of their choice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u300	Amendments Nos 56 by Mr Patrick Hetzel and 95 by Mrs Sonia Krimi are being defended. What is the opinion of the committee on these identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u301	It seems to me that we are getting out of the field of the text. I am a little embarrassed every time we are proposed to amend legislation even before it comes into force. Let us not modify a device that does not yet exist: let us evaluate it first. I also believe that your request is being met. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u302	I have two identical amendments, Nos 38 and 58. I call Mr Grégory Labille to support Amendment No. 38.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u303	It aims to extend the conditions for granting emergency school leave in cases of harassment, by allowing the child in arrears to obtain a solution other than schooling in his or her school. However, article 49 of the Act of 24 August 2021, which reinforces the observance of the principles of the Republic, in force at the beginning of the next school year, introduced a compulsory consultation, which is reflected in the decree implementing the certificate, of the head of the institution for an emergency school leaver, which does not allow families to effectively protect their children in situations of school suffering.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u304	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Anthoine to support Amendment No. 58.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u305	This amendment by our colleague Patrick Hetzel is intended to supplement the list of grounds that could lead to an emergency drop-out by adding the possibility of filing a harassment complaint.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u306	What is the opinion of the committee on these identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u307	A complaint is only a first step before any legal action is taken, and there is no basis for some complaints. Such a measure could, therefore, lead to abusive filing of complaints, for reasons related to family education. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u308	I call Mr Fuchs to support Amendment No. 100.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u309	It is in line with the already mentioned logic that schools should not be left alone in the face of their responsibilities but should extend the scope of the actors concerned. I therefore propose to encourage local and regional authorities to contribute to the establishment of public policies on the prevention and treatment of acts constituting harassment within the meaning of Article 222-33-2-3 of the Criminal Code. Working at the life-basin level, we would gain in coherence from the point of view of public policy as well as of means. As we observe, institutions lack the capacity to deal with harassment cases as well as other actions. Such a measure would provide them with additional resources. I will be told that some communities are already acting on this ground. That's true, but not all of them – I know a lot of them in this case. As a result, there is a need to encourage communities to propose public policies that are based on a basin-wide, non-institutional basis.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u310	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u311	Your proposal is quite interesting. However, there should be either an obligation, which is impossible, or an incentive for communities, which, of course, is desirable but which cannot be included in the law because it would have no normative significance. What you're saying is in line with my bill, the aim of which is also to create an electroshock around the issue of school harassment. By including in the Penal Code that such acts constitute a ban in the eyes of society, local authorities are encouraged to become aware of the problem – even though most of them have already done so. A few days ago, I participated in a video conference on this issue with the Association des maires d'Île-de-France (AMIF). As in many other regions – in my home, in Finistère, or in Lyon – many associations and communities are working together, for example on the management of extracurricular education. These initiatives are moving in the right direction. The establishment of an association referent in the school is, for example, a path to be explored – it is already a reality in some schools. However, such an incentive cannot be included in the law, which is why I am asking for the amendment to be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u312	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u313	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u314	Mr Bruno Fuchs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u315	There is no question of injunction or obligation. However, the inclusion of this possibility in the legislation is a way to challenge and solicit the various community leaders. There are always examples of communities in which initiatives are being taken, but I could cite more communities in which no thought is being given to this issue. [[Mr. Brahim Hammouche applauds]] In order for an electroshock to occur, it is not enough to include a crime in the penal code; all actors must feel concerned. I visited several schools in my constituency. However, in the same city, some establishments have been carrying out anti-harassment actions for two or three years – which has helped to solve many situations – while others have only just implemented the PHARE programme and others have not yet done so. In the face of such a heterogeneity of practices, action must be deployed at the level of the life pool, a direction which the law must enshrine; Otherwise, the shock will not occur as quickly as we would like.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u316	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u317	Mrs Blandine Brocard has the floor to support Amendment No. 113.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u318	It also aims to highlight the work of associations to combat school harassment, such as HUGO! Or The Butterflies. All too often, despite all the efforts made in recent years, the links between the educational community and these associations remain distended or non-existent. It may even happen that these associations suffer from a negative perception on the part of the educational community. Here's an anecdote to that. Until 2017, I was deputy mayor of a commune. When cases of harassment were brought back to us, the team of elected officials of whom I was a member wanted to involve an anti-harassment association within the school. The principal of the school then objected to us not to accept, considering that this problem did not concern him. It's dramatic. We have therefore turned to the out-of-school sector, as the municipalities have the possibility to do. It must be stressed that associations should have their full place in institutions and, above all, that the educational community should rely on them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u319	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u320	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u321	Once again, I share your observation and your ambitions. However, your amendment seems to me to be totally satisfactory, both by what we voted in Article 1 and by the current wording of the education code that you want to amend. It states that "information intended for the educational community" – an expression which, as we know, covers a fairly broad spectrum – "to become familiar with the local and national community and the links that can be created between associations and schools, is published by the Ministry of National Education". In addition, Article 1, which was adopted unanimously earlier, will oblige institutions to take measures; They will be able to use a variety of tools as part of the Minister's regulations and circulars. As your amendment is satisfied and only brings complexity, I would ask you to withdraw it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u322	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u323	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u324	Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u325	I would like to refer to the role of local authorities in combating school harassment, as discussed in this amendment and in the previous one. This issue is important because the link between primary school and college is the least studied. However, leads can be explored at this level. In fact, primary school teachers and principals are applicants and address themselves, in a rather natural way, to their colleagues who work in college because they are more accustomed to dealing with these issues. However, it is true that for events that occur in school or out-of-school time, such as the canteen, municipalities are often poor and do not have trained staff. Mr Fuchs' remark therefore seems to me to be very important: community leaders should be invited to participate in these reflections. Associations also play an important role because, since they are familiar with these issues, municipalities often work with them. [[Bruno Fuchs applauds]] I therefore felt that these two amendments were particularly welcome.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u326	You applaud for that!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u327	For the children!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u328	Mrs Albane Gaillot has the floor to support Amendment No. 34.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u329	It concerns an issue which I have already mentioned in my amendment No 33 to Article 3, namely cybersexism. This begins with sexist insults in the schoolyard and goes as far as sex cyberharassment with practices like porn disclosure – or renenge porn. Sex and emotional life education courses must inculcate in students respect for the other and his or her consent; They must also be an opportunity to stress that violence can arise in situations of cybersexism. For these reasons, it seems essential to integrate the specificities of cybersexism into the education of emotional and sexual life, which is linked to gender stereotypes and gender-based and sexual violence.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u330	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u331	The numerical dimension of sexual and gender-based violence is, of course, understood, in my view, in the drafting of the article. In fact, this issue has little to do with school harassment as such, although some overlaps are possible. Gender-based and sexual violence, as you define it, is a distinct problem – against which we have acted a lot during this legislature. The opinion is unfavourable because this amendment would only lead to confusion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u332	Mr Raphaël Gérard has the floor to support Amendment No. 4.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u333	As a member of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, I regret that this bill focuses on dealing with the symptoms of harassment – it is the result of the Law Commission, perhaps this explains – by strengthening the perpetrators' means of repression and improving the care of victims. These actions are, of course, necessary, and no one disputes them. However, in the fight against school harassment, the first lever is prevention, which involves raising students' awareness and transmitting our common values, a fortiori within the framework of the school of the Republic. For the time being, however, this educational component is still missing from the text. That is why I propose to you, by this amendment, to create the obligation for schools to provide teachings that contribute to the deconstructing of gender stereotypes. Indeed, academic work in the sociology of education shows that school harassment is very often the corollary of gender-based violence. On the other hand, if we are to combat gender-based, homophobic and transphobic violence in schools, we must address the roots of such violence, namely the stereotypes that feed them. In conclusion, I would like once again to welcome the work carried out by our colleagues Karine Lebon and Gaël Le Bohec in the framework of the delegation to women's rights and equal opportunities for men and women of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u334	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u335	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u336	Although I am a law commissioner, I am very invested in these matters, you know that!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u337	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u338	I have the support of President Studer! More seriously, you would like the information provided in the context of health and sexual education and on gender equality and violence against women to be extended to gender stereotypes. In substance, I fully agree with the spirit of this amendment, as you know. However, the issue of gender stereotypes does not include harassment, which seems to me to be much broader. We come back to the problem of the list, which we mentioned earlier. Above all, I do not wish to limit the scope of the bill in order not to weaken its scope. As I have already said, if we started drawing up a list, we would risk forgetting some possible discrimination.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u339	Mrs Albane Gaillot has the floor to support Amendment No. 36.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u340	It is important to break the vicious circle of violence and judgment of school harassment by drawing on the educational methods that have proved their worth in our European neighbours. In Denmark, children between the ages of 6 and 16 attend empathy classes, where they learn to read, understand and listen to others' emotions. Using images of other children who pass through different emotions such as sadness, fear, joy or frustration, they are called to describe the feelings of others with their own words and express their own feelings. These courses are an opportunity to express emotions in public and to listen to others' emotions. The aim of this amendment is therefore to introduce empathy courses in the French school curriculum, for pupils from kindergarten to the final year, in order to prevent harassment and cyberharassment between pupils.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u341	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u342	I fully endorse the idea of developing a school of empathy. The amendment may have been inspired by the explanatory memorandum to my bill, in which I invite you to "promote empathy from an early age". However, I do not think that we will achieve this by using specific courses. The issue of empathy has traversed all the matters dealt with by the minister since the beginning of the legislature, the need to behave well with others accompanying the three pillars of education – reading, writing and counting. Empathy is listening to each other: this requirement must be found in all classes and at all times of school life. In substance, I fully agree that we must work on this issue so that every child feels a climate of serenity and confidence in the school. That is the meaning of the bill. I applaud you when you call for a school of empathy. On the other hand, it would seem a bit counterproductive to me to introduce a specific course on this issue.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u343	And then what course could one delete to make a place for this one? Indeed, the stacking of courses is also a problem of national education, as it leaves less and less time to work on this issue of living together.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u344	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u345	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u346	Mrs Albane Gaillot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u347	As with the previous amendments on education in emotional and sexual life, this is an appeal amendment which insists on the work that remains to be done. I know that school harassment is one of the topics that the Ministry of National Education is looking at. It is necessary to think, in a pragmatic way, about what works and what does not work; Thus, emotional and sexual education courses, as we know, are not always of good quality.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u348	Mrs Zivka Park has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u349	It's a nice idea, which would deserve to be applied. Unfortunately, I do not see how to do it in practice. A series of associations, including Marion with a hand outstretched, are already moving on the ground, in institutions, to give courses in empathy. It is from the earliest age, from the age of 3 or 4, that we must teach the children that it is good to be nice and that there is nothing abnormal about it. It's important to say so. But it must also be reiterated that this does not relieve parents of the duty to teach their children, from an early age, to respect others.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u350	Mrs Anne Brugnera has the floor to support Amendment No. 66.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u351	It amends article L. 822-1 of the Education Code to include the fight against harassment in universities among the missions of the CROUS. If we want to fight effectively against student harassment, it is important to involve all the actors who organise student life in the prevention, identification and treatment of harassment situations. During the health crisis, the Government created 1,600 student referent positions in the university towns of the CROUS to support and support students who are isolated or in difficulty, in precarious situations or facing mental health problems. These positions, maintained for the current academic year, could see their missions oriented towards accompaniment of students who are victims of harassment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u352	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u353	The issue of school harassment at university has not been sufficiently emphasized. My report did not deal with it because it exceeded the scope of my mission letter. But then I received several university associations and unions, who contacted me to say that harassment also existed at the university. That is why we have added it to Article 1. I am therefore quite in favour of this proposal, which goes in the same direction.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u354	I call Mr Grégory Labille to support Amendment No. 91.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u355	He referred to the role that the CLSPDs, local – or intercommunal – councils for the safety and prevention of crime could play in the fight against and prevention of school harassment. These structures, which I have known as mayor, bring together the mayor, the president of the community of communes, sometimes the sub-prefect, the gendarmerie services, the municipal police, the heads of institutions, social donors and school principals. Directors could present harassment situations and, in particular, measures in place in institutions to combat such practices; This would encourage exchanges between the various actors involved in the fight against crime, including political and social actors close to the ground.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u356	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u357	This is an unfavorable opinion or, rather, a request for withdrawal. The CLSPDs can already deal with problems of school harassment, people in these structures have confirmed this to me. The amendment therefore seems to me to be satisfactory. In addition, the provision falls within the regulatory and non-legislative sphere.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u358	I call Mr Grégory Labille to support Amendment No. 90.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u359	This time it is an appeal amendment, which is also devoted to the role that the CLSPDs could play.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u360	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u361	Unfavorable. We're still in the regulatory field.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u362	I call Mr Fuchs to support Amendment No. 99.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u363	The latest reliable study on the subject, conducted nationally, dates back to 2015. In order to carry out effective and coordinated public policies throughout the country, an observatory is needed to collect and analyse the data and then make proposals to the various actors concerned, including the Minister of National Education. It seems to me that this proposal is included in Mr Balanant's report.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u364	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u365	Indeed, the first proposal in my report is to carry out a study to quantify precisely the phenomenon and to know its evolution. Beyond the study, I call for the creation of an annual barometer that would be published, for example, on the occasion of the National Day to Combat Harassment in Schools. But this is, once again – I know it as rapporteur, but I knew it as a Member – in the field of regulation. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u366	Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u367	Before dealing with article 4, which creates a new offence and tightens penalties, I want to speak about the phenomena of violence in schools, including school harassment. We've all known ridicule, clans, hazing; This is nothing new, but it takes on a tragic and massive character, one cannot deny it. President Macron once said that the school was the mirror of society at the same time as the place where tomorrow's school is made. I remember the first formula: the school is the mirror of society. In a violent society, children – because they are children – are violent. An editorialist who has become famous said, for his part, that school should be the antidote of society. She's not. Children are built in this society, in a violent atmosphere. To remedy this, is it a good idea to create a crime and introduce severe penalties? Is it not, on the contrary, fuelling violence without ever solving at the root what produces it? I ask you this question seriously because young people are sick. How can a child be so violent? The school must be an antidote to this violence, and the answer is not necessarily to punish more.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u368	Mrs Laetitia Avia has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u369	I want to share with you an upsetting meeting that I made yesterday: that of Stéphanie Mistre, the mother of Mary, 15, whom she found hanged in her room on September 12. This dreadful story illustrates all aspects of our collective failure. First of all, little Marie was ashamed of being a victim of porn disclosure – or revenge porn. Snaps were found on social media that had not been moderated. When she finally spoke to adults, the school pronounced three days of exclusion for the perpetrators and proposed that they apologize to her by text – yes, by text! And when her mom went to the police station to file a complaint, she was the one who was guilty: do you really want to file a complaint against children, did we ask her? Today, while her daughter committed suicide, we're still trying to dissuade her. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group and on several benches of the LaREM group]] It's terrible. We need to offer victims and their parents new tools; Criminal law is also there for this. No, school harassment is not a rite of compulsory passage to adulthood, it causes real suffering. The crime is there for the clarity of our common rule: that of a criminal and societal ban. Indeed, it is the whole society that suffers with these mothers and victims, with Stéphanie Mistre, Nora Fraisse and all the others. It is important to tell all child victims of cyber-harassment and school harassment that society poses a clear and clear ban. That is the objective of Article 4, which we shall vote with both hands.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u370	Mr Philippe Meyer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u371	Article 4 creates an offence of harassment in schools similar to that of harassment in any case, on the basis of the definition contained in article 1 of the proposed law. Of course it's a good thing. School harassment is punishable by three years' imprisonment and a fine of 45000 euros – a penalty of five years and a fine of 75000 euros when it results in a total incapacity for work of more than eight days, and a fine of 10 years and 150000 euros when the acts led the victim to commit suicide or attempt to do so. All this goes in the right direction and we will vote for the article. In the fight against harassment, it would be interesting to strengthen the educational component. Severe sanctions were needed, but harassmentrs should be forced to attend training courses to raise awareness of school harassment. It's not just a stupid game; For the victims, the damage can be irreversible. When the stalker is very young, the educational component must be predominant and strengthened. If he is a minor, these internships could take place at the expense of the family.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u372	Mr Christophe Blanchet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u373	Article 4 is necessary because violence has changed. Before, it was visible: we all experienced harassment, but these could be detected. Today, she follows us and follows our children constantly, even when they leave school to go home, especially through social networks. We must therefore vote in favour of this article, and I thank Mr Balanant for his impulsive attitude. This suffering that our children endure, they live it, in the depths of themselves, day and night. Admittedly, making a child responsible by means of a fine is not the ideal solution; But it can also empower parents and make them wonder if they are not sheltering a stalking child under their roof. It's one way to tell them: be careful, the worst is to fear. The worst is those parents – mothers and fathers – who find their child lifeless. I'm also thinking about those who find their child with just a little more life. These parents discover everything; The shock is to understand that they didn't know anything, that they didn't see anything. I can assure you this is a very difficult moment. So yes, this article is necessary. Of course, not everything should be based on the punishment of the child; But if it contributes to collective accountability, if it makes harassment visible – it is essential and necessary – if it helps to become aware of the problem, then we will have won, for our children. If this article can help those who suffer harassment,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u374	That's why he won't help!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u375	[[Applause on the benches of the Dem group and on several benches of the LaREM group]] ... then yes, we have to go!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u376	On Article 4, I have a request from the La République en marche group for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. I have before me several identical amendments, Nos 60, 76 and 104, to delete Article 4. Mrs Delphine Bagarry has the floor to support Amendment No. 60.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u377	This article aims to include the specific offence of school harassment in the penal code: I would like to delete it for several reasons. First, this provision is not likely to respond to the known mechanisms of school harassment, i.e. the powerful group effects on minors who do not yet have sufficient capacity for discernment: these phenomena occur in all schools, regardless of the environment. Secondly, such a provision could undermine positive law, whereas it already offers responses adapted to the gravity of situations by relying on two pillars: the school institution, which must ensure that the education of pupils is carried out in the best possible conditions, and criminal proceedings, article L. 222-33-2-2 of the Penal Code defining and punishing moral harassment; This legal tool is already used for incidents of school harassment and is cited in the protocol for dealing with harassment in colleges on the website of the Ministry of National Education. It therefore seems to us that criminal law would lose its legibility and effectiveness. Third, the creation of the offence of school harassment could defuse the head of the school,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u378	It's not possible to hear that.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u379	It would be enough for you to explain yourself with the harassers so that they stop acting!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u380	...that must remain a central actor. In addition to the disciplinary sanctions which provide a rapid response to effectively combat the feeling of impunity and which are graduated, to the point of exclusion, depending on the seriousness of the facts, the heads of institutions must also intervene in situations of harassment which have been brought to the attention of the judicial authorities. It is therefore proposed to delete this article which does not protect victims, which does not respond to violence mechanisms, which does not make sense of punishment and, above all, which could minimize the effectiveness of the existing legal arsenal.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u381	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor to support Amendment No. 76.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u382	As the debate progresses, we see how much school harassment is a particularly sensitive subject; It is because it concerns our children and we see how much suffering it generates in them, but also because it challenges us about the state of our society and the violence that is emerging there. From the moment we, legislators, take this issue together, we must aim justly. However, it seems to us that with this bill and section 4, which creates an offence of school harassment, the legislator is not taking the right course, as I explained in my speech in the general discussion. First of all, this crime misses the group effect,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u383	No.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u384	... which is a frequent component of school harassment. He then further outsources the issue by referring it to justice. Finally, more deeply, the repressive reflex is not the right one when it comes to cases involving children – which you all recognize somewhere in your interventions. There's a need for more education. We don't want to find our children between the walls of a prison or subjected to alternative punishments...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u385	That's not the point!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u386	To educate is also to punish!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u387	...or in a police station. We all want to prevent these facts from happening and the resulting failure.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u388	Oh, there!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u389	I'm not finished, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u390	But soon.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u391	At the criminal level, the existing system is sufficient. If you visit the department's site, you will see that school harassment is already mentioned. As for the justification by paralleling the creation of the offence of moral harassment at work, this is the worst comparison because it is to forget that it was created to fill the imbalance between the employer and the employee.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u392	Not just!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u393	These are children, whose relationships are not hierarchical. When Ms. Avia said that this provision would address situations of cyber-harassment and the dissemination of images, it was to be forgotten that there were already provisions in the law in that regard. The failure comes from their application and it is not by creating a new offence that we will be able to deal with the issue.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u394	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u395	I call Mrs Sabine Rubin to support Amendment No. 104.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u396	[[Claims on several banks of the LaREM Group]] I have already said how the creation of the school harassment offence was not a solution; I am not the only one who says so, and the people concerned also think so. "We don't need a bill, these people are out of the ground," the president of Marion's extended hand, Nora Fraisse, whose daughter, herself a victim of harassment, committed suicide in 2013. "Go get money, train people! She pleads. That's what it says. "Punish the students, as if that were what we needed. It's really a law for nothing," says Jean-Pierre Bellon, director of the Centre de ressources et d'études systèmes contre les intimidations scolaires (RESIS), who must know what he's talking about! This article punishes rather than providing ways to avoid evil. I hear some quote examples with an affected tone: it is not a question of having an affected tone, but of giving oneself the means, which this article will not do! You plan punishment instead of trying to avoid drama!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u397	[[Exclaims on the banks of the GDR Group]] Don't teach anyone here! Talking about "your affect," it's unworthy!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u398	Oh, a little calm!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u399	What is the opinion of the committee on these identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u400	"Any criminal code must fulfil a dual function. The first, obvious, is the repressive function. The primary purpose of criminal law is to defend civil society and its members. »
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u401	She needs education!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u402	Let me continue, please, Mrs Faucillon.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u403	You cut me off every second!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u404	"To this end, the law prescribes penalties for those who wait for the social order. "The second function of criminal law is more secretive. Every society is based on certain values recognized by collective consciousness. These values translate into prohibitions. And these prohibitions in turn give rise to punishments against those who misunderstand them. Thus, the criminal law expresses by sanctions that it enacts a society's system of values. This is the expressive function of criminal law. You have understood that I am not quoting myself, but to read an excerpt from Robert Badinter's speech when he presented in 1985 the great reform of the penal code. In a society, legislators must define prohibitions. And when these are clear and precise, all public policies result. You keep saying, Mrs Faucillon, that the repression of acts of harassment is already included in the education code. It is true that today we can punish for moral harassment – proof that punishment is sometimes useful – but I remind you, and you know that you who have worked on these issues – I have heard you many times during the reform of juvenile criminal justice and I know your commitment to the issue of children – that we have juvenile criminal justice that takes into account the notion of minority and the degree of discernment that results from it. Therefore, there is obviously no question of sending children to prison for a question of school harassment. I repeat this all the time: the judicialization of a case of school harassment signifies the failure of the system because it is before we have to act and we have to work on prevention, on accompaniment and on care. A thousand times yes to all of this, but if you want an awareness of society, you have to create a specific crime. Like me, you talked about harassment at work. It is specifically penalized in the Penal Code and does not concern only hierarchical relations between employers and employees, harassment may be in the opposite direction or between employees.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u405	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u406	Similarly, the Criminal Code provides for the concept of moral harassment within the couple. How can we explain to children and parents that school harassment would not exist, that there would be only moral harassment as defined today? It is only a general framework, to which paragraphs 1 and 4 of the article refer. The fact that a group attacks a person is already provided for in the concept of moral harassment, but you and your colleagues tend to forget that in some situations students are not protected. I took the example earlier of a student who would be harassed by his TD manager or another teacher: he does not have the same level of protection as the employee harassed at work. Similarly, a 17-year-old who is harassed by a fellow of the same age is also less protected. There is, therefore, a lack of protection that we must address. But if, in order to resolve the lack of protection, we had used the legal weapon of the aggravating circumstance, we would have created a penalty: since you are against penalizing school harassment, our positions would not have come close to it. As you know, Mrs Faucillon, I was not entirely in favour of a new autonomous offence because, you know me, I am not the most repressive on this side of the House. But if children need freedom, they also need a framework. We must protect children, sometimes against other children, but also against adults with inappropriate behaviour. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group and on several benches of the LaREM group. – The Chairman of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education also applauds]] I will conclude with the point that has taken away my decision to propose an autonomous qualification for school harassment: the Constitutional Council considered that the definition of moral harassment was too vague for the legislator to require platforms to control their content in this regard, this new criminal qualification and article 7 which accordingly amends the law of 21 June 2004 on confidence in the digital economy will allow it. This will allow us to impose restraint and regulatory obligations on platforms. That is why we must go, not to crack down, but to define a ban, to better protect our children and to create a shock in society, as when the concept of harassment was incorporated into the penal code: everyone must say that school harassment can no longer last. That is the meaning of Article 4, which is why I ask you to change your position and withdraw your amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u407	All right, Mr. Balanant!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u408	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u409	I will be extremely brief,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u410	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u411	... because I speak only to support the rapporteur's remarks and to take them on behalf of the Government. First, it is indeed a question of the downstream determining the upstream because, as we say at the chess game, the threat is better than the capture. This provision is not designed to go to the end, but to dissuade upstream. And it is an extremely important dimension of the device. It's about sending a signal. If I share the very normal questions that have just been raised, what I have just said is the answer. Secondly, and perhaps even more important, I stress that this is a progressive legal construction. I, too, am extremely vigilant about the judicialization of the school environment...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u412	Oh, yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u413	...because we must avoid any excessive evolution in this direction. This is a profound societal trend, albeit more pronounced in the United States than in our home but which we see happening. That is why I always insist that the rule of law does not mean a society of rights; In other words, pay attention to the competition of rights, which in the end becomes the rule of the strongest, of the one who can mobilize the most legal resources. Let us always pay attention to this point.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u414	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u415	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Secondly, the fact that this new crime is a milestone towards a legal construction of the accountability of platforms on the Internet seems to me to be a very important point. The moral commitment I can make here is to work as hard as possible so that this construction can continue in other dimensions of the work we have to do with the platforms. We are therefore creating a basis for being legally stronger on this issue. There is a need to increase the legal responsibility of cyber-harassers.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u416	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u417	We are not going to convince ourselves, not because I am obtuse but because strong convictions separate us. The example of the student and the thesis supervisor or the Temporary Teaching and Research Attaché (ATER) must be evacuated as it creates confusion about what school harassment is. In my view, as in the case of justice, this is not school harassment because there is a link of subordination and domination, or even domination, characterized by criminal justice. I hear what you both are saying about the risk of switching to judicialization. There are two aspects to the expressive function that you are talking about, Mr rapporteur. On the one hand, she pronounces a ban, in the place of the school. The school says that school harassment is prohibited, as it prohibits typing or misbehaving, but without threatening children in prison. The function that is important and that one must seek to develop above all is the educational prohibition: it is forbidden to type because it hurts or hurts the other. I hope that the teachers will not explain to a child tomorrow that he should not harass his comrade, or end up in prison or go to court. The expressive function is therefore rather obscure. The second aspect is that there are very worried parents who, when their child comes home and does not go well, identify school harassment themselves, whether it is or not, and will automatically go to the police station to file a complaint, even before going to see the school's management, for lack of an educational response: this slide worries me deeply.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u418	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 28.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u419	He's out.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u420	Amendment No 49 by the rapporteur, for clarification, is the subject of two sub-amendments Nos 138 and 136. Mrs Geraldine Bannier has the floor to support sub-amendment No. 138.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u421	I'm totally against harassment. As early as 2015, I participated in educational harassment awareness operations, which everyone described as peer-to-peer harassment. I have a problem with the amendment, the wording of which bothers me and embarrasss me. Why put on the same plane and use the same terms of school harassment for two phenomena that have nothing to do with it? On the one hand, 700000 to 1 million students are harassed by peers, often through group phenomena and with cyber-harassment in the background; On the other hand, there are abuses of professionals – teachers – who are the first to be targeted by such complaints? This latter phenomenon, which is much less widespread, concerns teachers who abuse their position of authority in relation to children. Why aggravate sanctions against adults in schools – after all, why not? – without doing so against adult abusers and harassers in nurseries or medical and social centres, or who supervise training or apprenticeships? This is a problem for me, and I would have liked the two phenomena to be distinguished. In my opinion, school harassment, between students or students, seems to me to be sufficiently serious, widespread and well-identified – you have all taken examples of peer harassment – so that it receives a specific name and is well distinguished in the writing. I am really embarrassed and have shared this embarrassment with many teachers, since I come from this community.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u422	Mrs Agnès Thill has the floor in support of sub-amendment No 136.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u423	The purpose of this sub-amendment is to extend the definition of school harassment in the Penal Code. This reference to what happens on the margins of school life is not drawn from anywhere since it is the one used in section 1 of this bill. I would like to supplement paragraph 4 with the words "or on the margins of school life". This is important for a simple reason. Some group phenomena, including school harassment, have multiple forms. For example, harassment that begins within the school may be repeated and amplified outside of the school by students who are schooled or not in the same school. It is therefore inconceivable that, in a group of young people who would be tried for acts of school harassment, only one who is enrolled in the same school would be convicted. It therefore appears necessary to introduce a broader mention in order to allow the judge to characterize incidents of school harassment even when they are committed by students from different schools outside the school.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u424	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u425	Mrs Bannier, I understand your fear that teachers or educators will be pointed at and stigmatized. This is something that needs to be taken into account, but the judicial services are very quick to identify these situations in order to investigate them or not. What you ask of us would be a setback and a return to the previous situation. Sometimes a child is harassed by an adult in the school; It is fortunately very rare because the educational staff is trained and teachers do their job by vocation: I do not know many who would have the vocation of harassing children, but this can happen. We need to protect these children, which is why we have ruled out the idea of sticking to the peer-to-peer relationship. My idea, which is also that of most of the majority, is to protect the child: to do so, the school must provide him with a secure environment in which he can trust. We need legal tools and a consistent criminal order. I therefore request the withdrawal of your sub-amendment; If not, the opinion will be unfavourable. The other sub-amendment presents a legal problem. You mention circumstances of time and place from a definition based on the relationship between the perpetrator and the victim. It is an important source of confusion that will not facilitate the work of magistrates and law enforcement officials. Moreover, the Criminal Code is strictly interpreted and it is also for this reason that we must be very precise.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u426	Extremely accurate!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u427	Thank you, Mr. Minot. The article in the Education Code to which you refer determines an obligation of means on the part of the public authorities. These are two very different purposes. I ask you to withdraw the sub-amendment; If not, the opinion will be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u428	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u429	Favourable to the amendment and unfavourable to the sub-amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u430	Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u431	I pointed out that the definition of school harassment was very tedious. This discussion highlights the profound change that you are making. What shockes me most is that you have not even had any previous discussions with the educational community, teachers' unions, staff or parents of students. This text is poorly calibrated, including in the definition of school harassment, which remains unclear.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u432	Mrs Geraldine Bannier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u433	In my view, these are two distinct phenomena that deserve different names: if we tighten the penalties for adults in school – beyond the current sentences of one year's imprisonment and 15,000 euros of fine – we must also do so for adults who care for children outside school, in nurseries, in medical-social centres, in apprenticeships, etc. I don't understand why we're only aggravating sanctions that affect adults in schools.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u434	She's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u435	I call Mr Grégory Labille to support Amendment No. 94.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u436	Without being opposed to tightening sanctions when it seems necessary, we are nevertheless committed to the principle of proportionality of penalties and, above all, to the consistency of those penalties. Involuntary homicide is punishable by three years' imprisonment, as is causing others to commit suicide, which is increased to five years when the offence involves a minor under the age of 15. This comparison should enable us to realize that the penalties provided for in article 4 are totally disproportionate to the existing law. We therefore propose to align the penalties with those provided for in articles 222-33-2-2 and 223-13 of the Criminal Code, namely one year's imprisonment for an act of harassment, two years' imprisonment when such acts cause more than eight days' total incapacity for work or when they are committed against a minor under 15 years of age, three years' imprisonment when they lead to suicide or attempted suicide, and five years if the victim is a minor. It is not a question of leniency but of remaining consistent with existing penalties. It should be noted that the penalties for harassment at work are not as high as those provided for in this article.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u437	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u438	We know that sentences are not intended to be handed down at their highest level, but in our penal order there are quantums of punishment: the quantum gives gravity to other facts. If we adopt your amendments, we could rewrite the penal code and the chancery would tear its hair out. This is not an unfavorable opinion, it is a very, very unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u439	On Amendment No 114, I have a request for a public vote before the Group of the European People's Party. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Amendments Nos 131 and 132 by Mrs Souad Zitouni are being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u440	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 50.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u441	This is an important amendment that responds to some of our colleagues' questions. It is intended to supplement the provisions of the first subparagraph by specifying that they are applicable in the event of further school harassment after the perpetrator or victim has left the institution. This includes cases where the author, having been excluded from the institution, would continue to harass the victim, as well as the assumption that the victim, after having changed his place of business, would continue to be harassed by the same persons.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u442	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Anthoine to support Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u443	This is the only amendment that has been tabled!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u444	No, he's not the only one. The aim is to introduce an obligation to attend a training course on school harassment, which would be carried out at the expense of the offender if he or she is a major or his or her legal representatives if he or she is a minor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u445	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u446	It would be designed on the model of road safety awareness courses, with the aim of recalling the essential rules in order to improve the behaviour of offenders. Beyond the criminal sanctions that could be imposed, it is important to supplement this system with an educational measure. In fact, the perpetrators are mostly minors and de facto school children. This is why an educational measure must accompany the sanction to ensure that the fight against school harassment is fully effective. The aim of this measure is to strengthen prevention in the face of school harassment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u447	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u448	That's a little what Article 6 provides for. The only difference is that you ask for it to be automatic; But in our country, there is no automatic penalty. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u449	Well, what a sectarianism!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u450	I put Article 4 to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u451	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 73 Number of votes cast 70 Absolute majority 36 For adoption 63 Against 7
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u452	Mrs Zivka Park has the floor to support Amendment No 114, which adds an additional Rule after Rule 4.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u453	This amendment by the Group of the European People's Party (La République en marche) clarifies and supplements the Penal Code concerning the penalty of confiscation. If a school harassment offence has been committed through an online public communication service, the instrument used to access this service will be considered a personal property used to commit the offence and may be confiscated. It is specified that during the investigation or investigation, this instrument may be seized in accordance with the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure. The proposed scheme will enable the seizure and confiscation of mobile phones and computers used to harass a student via social networks.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u454	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u455	[[Smile]] Favourable opinion. I even have the impression that confiscating phones, so access to social networks, will be one of the most effective penalties for young people – sometimes also for adults.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u456	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u457	Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u458	I put to the vote Amendment No 114.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u459	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 70 Number of votes cast 70 Absolute majority 36 For adoption 64 Against 6
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u460	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 31.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u461	It provides for the possibility of excluding from the educational institution the student harasser for a period which obviously remains at the discretion of the director of the institution concerned. This will allow the student who has been harassed to enjoy a period of respite. Too often, when they realize that their child is being harassed, the parents take him out of school. It's a perfectly legitimate reflex, but it's the stalker child who should be put out of order to pursue his or her reprehensible acts. The adoption of this amendment would send a strong signal not only to the educational community, but also to families and children to make them understand that it is not the harassed child who is guilty, that it is not the child who must be punished and that it is not his or her responsibility to be removed from school. It is indeed the harasser student who, at the discretion of the school principal, must be able to be put out of order to harm by being excluded from the educational community.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u462	Excellent amendment!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u463	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u464	Mr Minot, I am sorry to disappoint you, but this is a very bad amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u465	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u466	First of all, the scheme falls entirely within the regulatory sphere. In addition, it is satisfied with the existing law, as the disciplinary procedure initiated by the head of establishment is already mandatory,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u467	What the previous amendment proposes already exists!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u468	... in particular in the event of serious acts committed by a student against a staff member of the institution or another pupil. On the form, the temporary exclusion of a pupil must be decided by the Disciplinary Board, not by the head of the school alone. It's not up to the head of the institution to decide, it's up to the disciplinary board – it's important, because we're still in a rule of law. Moreover, as before, I have doubts as to the automaticity of the sentence: in my view, it would be considered non-constitutional. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u469	On the identical amendments Nos 22, 51, 73, 110 and 115, I have a request for a public vote before the Group of the European People's Party (La République en marche). The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor to support Amendment No. 77, which deletes the Rule.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u470	The amendment is consistent with the request for the deletion of Article 4, which creates an offence of school harassment, even though this is an alternative penalty.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u471	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u472	I hear it, but you first created the offence of school harassment. It is clear that alternative sentences, which are the core of juvenile justice and which must be the first response, are becoming less and less used and carried out because of the lack of structures and resources. This could be discussed for a long time from the perspective of the judicial protection of youth (PJJ). In another way, we believe that accountability for school life is really the heart of what the school must produce. When it fails – in fact, it is sometimes the case – we believe that it is not by judicial means that this must be resolved. I said it in the form of a joke in committee, but I'm afraid it's a bit like your universal national service (UNS) with flag raising. I'm not sure it's responsible for school life.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u473	That's for sure!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u474	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u475	Mrs Faucillon, there is a contradiction,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u476	There's none, there's no alternative penalty if there's no crime!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u477	[["Oh! » on several benches]] ...that you admit yourself by the smile you addressed to me. We are putting in place an educational measure. In addition, this internship already exists experimentally in some courses, in connection with the rectorates, and it works very well. Earlier, we referred to the Finnish KiVa programme: its success is the result of the link between law enforcement, justice and school. That's exactly what we're putting in place. The opinion is really unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u478	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u479	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u480	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u481	[[Ms. Karine Lebon applauds]] If you wish, you can come to my riding to visit the Continuous Wire, an institution located in front of a college located in a priority education area. When, for various reasons, students are excluded from the college, they are cared for by educators who are not part of the JJP and who are involved in extracurricular activities. This makes it possible not to leave excluded children in the street or at home. Efforts are being made to repair, educate and ensure that the things that have been done in the school compound are dealt with in an educational and non-judicial manner. There are answers and they have very encouraging results.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u482	Amendment No 29 by Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u483	I have before me five identical amendments, Nos 22, 51, 73, 110 and 115, which are the subject of a sub-amendment No 135. Mrs Blandine Brocard has the floor to support Amendment No. 22.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u484	Article 6 refers to accountability in school life. School life is a very special reality in schools and institutions, since it refers to the activities of the principal education counsellors and education assistants. The amendment is therefore intended to replace the words "responsibility for school life" with the words "awareness of harassment risks".
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u485	Very well defended!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u486	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 51.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u487	The amendment is identical. It's a device that we built together with several groups to change the name that was inappropriate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u488	Identical amendments Nos 73 by Mrs Michèle Victory, 110 by Mrs Agnès Firmin Le Bodo and 115 by Mrs Cécile Rilhac are being defended. I call Mr Bruno Fuchs to support sub-amendment No. 135.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u489	Much of the harassment on social networks is to add the words "and to the use of social networks".
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u490	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u491	The sub-amendment was satisfied with the current wording. The name of the internship is broad enough to cover different forms of harassment, including cyber-harassment. Your concern is right, but she's satisfied. I would ask you to withdraw the sub-amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u492	I put to the vote identical amendments Nos 22, 51, 73, 110 and 115.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u493	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 61 Number of votes cast 61 Absolute majority 31 For adoption 57 Against 4
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u494	Amendment No 26 by Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u495	Mrs Laetitia Avia has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u496	After the vote on article 4 and the creation of the new offence of school and university harassment, it will be possible to moderate the content of school harassment on social networks. A decree on the application of the law to uphold the principles of the Republic, which will enter into force on 12 January, provides for the following obligations: to report the contents of school harassment and to treat them as soon as possible; a follow-up to be carried out with trusted signallers; appropriate means of moderation; judicial cooperation; transparency reports that will allow for a better study of the evolution of this scourge; due diligence, moderation and transparency measures under the supervision of the regulator, with penalties of up to 6% of the platform's global turnover.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u497	Mrs Marie-Christine Dalloz has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u498	I do not have the honour of sitting on the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, but I have been attending the debate for a while and I must express my astonishment. I understand very well that, in the current context, there is a need to tighten the penal provisions with the creation of a school harassment offence. Article 4 responds to this need, which is very interesting. There is, however, a paradox: in the context of Article 6, you have just accepted something completely inconsistent. You have removed the concept of accountability by replacing it with the concept of awareness.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u499	This has nothing to do with Article 7!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u500	I am not talking about Article 7, but about the consistency of your text, Mr Balanant. Listen, I have the right to speak.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u501	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u502	[["Oh! » on the benches of the Dem group]] It's really "at the same time": you're more harshly punishing school harassment and, at the same time, you're doing awareness rather than accountability. It's completely incoherent, it suits you.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u503	On Article 7, I have a request for a public vote before the La République en marche group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u504	We were told in committee that the crime must be characterized to be understood as platforms. I hear it, even though publications that seem harmless are sometimes suppressed when others, serious or even criminal, are maintained. In any case, how can school harassment be characterized? The element of repetition is not sufficient to distinguish it from other forms of harassment, nor is the posting of images, including pornographic images, without the consent of the person to be harassed, racist, transphobic or lesbian insults, to name but a few criminal elements characterizing harassment. Characterizing school harassment like the one that happens in school is not what will allow the platforms to better cope with it. So I don't see what the notion of school harassment will add to the rule of law from this point of view: enlighten me!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u505	Mrs Anne Brugnera has the floor to support Amendment No. 6.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u506	While pursuing the objective of increasing the fight against school harassment on social networks, this amendment by my colleague Raphaël Gérard aims to clarify the duty of vigilance entrusted to the platforms with regard to school cyber-harassment. Article 6 of the Law on Trust in the Digital Economy – LCEN – provides for an obligation to promptly withdraw content that is manifestly illegal and denounced as such by a third party following a report. The addition of an autonomous offence relating to school harassment to the list of offences whose platforms must stop broadcasting is of interest to facilitate their reporting by users. On the other hand, there appear to be some operational difficulties. In its decision of 10 June 2004 on the ECL, the Constitutional Council specified that the information complained of must be "clearly unlawful". The reported infringements should therefore not be subject to interpretation by operators. However, with regard to the offence of school harassment, it may be difficult in practice for the moderators of the platforms responsible for examining the content to characterize the offence and, where appropriate, to be aware of or establish that the content in question is the act of "a person studying or carrying on a professional activity in an educational institution against a pupil enrolled or previously enrolled in the same institution". In this context, this amendment proposes to streamline the scope of Article 7 of this Bill by limiting it to offences that may be characterized by reason of the contents themselves, namely the acts constituting harassment referred to in paragraphs 1 to 4 of Article 222-33-2-2 of the Criminal Code on which the definition of the autonomous offence of school harassment is based.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u507	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u508	Platforms already deal with reports of sexual harassment. However, in order for the offence to be constituted, I repeat, there must be repeated acts by the same or several perpetrators, even though they were not aware of the fact that it was harassment. Platforms are not asked to make a "prejudice" because they are not there to judge. They are simply asked to moderate the statements that clearly fall within the scope of this offence; It will not be more complicated in terms of school harassment: it will be exactly the same, and I think that by saying that, I am responding in part to Mrs Faucillon's question. Opening the system to all cases of harassment would pose a problem of effectiveness: the competent authorities to receive alerts from the platforms would find it difficult to get anything out of it. School harassment can have consequences that are all the more serious because children cannot escape from this virtual sociability. That is why this text tends, thanks to this new criminal qualification, to oblige the platforms to moderate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u509	I put Rule 7 to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u510	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 67 Number of votes cast 62 Absolute majority 32 For adoption 62 Against 0
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u511	Mrs Isabelle Valentin has the floor to support Amendment No. 16.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u512	With this amendment, we request that the Government submit a report to Parliament on the relevance of protocols to deal with harassment situations in institutions. The aim of this appeal amendment is to alert the Government to the distress felt by school directors and all educational teams, who are increasingly confronted with serious harassment situations and who deplore the lack of resources available to them. A global reflection must be carried out with the help of them to develop protocols more adapted to the reality of the field.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u513	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u514	[[Exclaims on a few benches in the LR group]] The opinion will be unfavourable to all requests for reports. As the reports are requested from the Government, I will allow it to respond on this point. I would simply remind you that Parliament already has the power to evaluate the law, and the chairman of the committee, Bruno Studer, will certainly create an information mission to evaluate this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u515	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u516	As far as reports are concerned, you know our doctrine: we are systematically opposed to them. This does not mean that we are opposed to the evaluation of public policies; This is even the opposite, for the reasons that the rapporteur has just mentioned. In addition, there is now a school evaluation board and the PHARE programme also provides for an evaluation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u517	I'll see to it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u518	So your expectation is satisfied. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u519	I call Mrs Sabine Rubin to support Amendment No. 103.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u520	We are asking for a report assessing the number of missing staff in schools to effectively combat school harassment: it is good to have obligations of means but without means, it is complicated. You are talking about evaluation, minister: it is certainly interesting to evaluate public policies, but why did you refuse to include the fight against harassment among the performance objectives of the 230 Student Life program in this case? Why deprive yourself of such an evaluation tool?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u521	Mrs Geraldine Bannier has the floor to support Amendment No. 21.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u522	The purpose of this request for a report is to assess the application throughout the territory of the prevention and information measures deployed to all actors and by these actors themselves. Indeed, some schools have been doing school harassment prevention for several years – I myself have taught in a very active college in this field since 2015, carrying out very spectacular operations. These initiatives must be able to be generalized after they have been evaluated.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u523	I call Mrs Agnès Firmin Le Bodo to support Amendment No. 75.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u524	This amendment by my colleague Benoit Potterie aims to strengthen the existing system by providing for the appointment of a reference staff from the educational staff in each institution. It is proposed that these referents be given discharge time. The rules on financial admissibility lead us to request a report assessing this measure.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u525	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor to support Amendment No. 80.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u526	Civic and moral education courses can be spaces for combating discrimination and addressing the digital relationship as well as many other interesting topics. History and geography programs are so heavy that the teaching of this subject, which is on the curriculum, is largely sacrificed. This appeal amendment calls for a report on this subject, but our committee could take care of this assessment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u527	Amendment No 74 by Mrs Michèle Victory is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u528	I have before me three amendments, Nos 111, 133 and 79, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 111 and 133 are identical. I call Mrs Agnès Firmin Le Bodo to support Amendment No. 111.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u529	This amendment obviously requires a report – this is the limit of our exercise – on the psychological follow-up of children. We have voted under the Social Security Funding Bill (SSP) to reimburse ten psychotherapy sessions, renewable once, from 3 years old, but we are well aware that the care of victims of harassment takes time. We would have liked to have been able to go further in dealing with these harassment situations and to evaluate this first mechanism in order to move forward faster and stronger in the care of children.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u530	Amendment No 133 by Mrs Zivka Park was withdrawn.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u531	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor to support Amendment No. 79.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u532	Associations estimate the cost of psychological care for those who commit or are victims of harassment at around 500 euros per month. Not only are parents deprived of structures or staff that do not move, they are also deprived of the ability to treat the perpetrators or victims of these acts psychologically. They must therefore turn to professionals, most often liberal, because of the lack of psychologists. Families need to be helped by paying back for these treatments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u533	I call Mr Bruno Fuchs to support Amendment No. 101.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u534	It is intended to warn you, Minister, of the risk that this device will become illegible very quickly. Currently, there are two listening numbers available to victims of school harassment. The 3018 is dedicated to cyber-harassment, while the 3020 is dedicated to school harassment, most of which consists of cyber-harassment to believe the studies on this subject. To this will be added the platform announced by the President of the Republic. Instead of setting up a very French gas plant, it would be better to think about how to simplify the system. The purpose of this request for a report is to explore this dimension in order to avoid replicating the pattern of emergency services to multiple telephone platforms.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u535	Amendment No 5 by Mr Raphaël Gérard is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u536	The Minister has the floor to support Amendment No. 137, which seeks to delete the rule.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u537	It aims at lifting the pledge of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u538	Mr Grégory Labelle has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u539	This afternoon's debate was rich and full of emotion; We have perpetrated harassment all over our country and in all strata of society. All this has shown us that the phenomenon against which this bill wants to fight is far from being a view of mind: it is a serious subject, a reflection of a society that is going badly. The discussions enriched and clarified our vision of school harassment in France. This bill goes in the right direction and the introduction of a new article in the penal code, although it does not go far enough in our view, is a useful first step in the fight against school harassment. The protection of our children is not being negotiated and, even if the IDU and independent group believes that this bill could have been more courageous, we will vote for its adoption.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u540	On the whole of the bill, I have a request for a public vote before the Groups of the Republic on the Move and the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related Democrats. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mrs Sylvia Pinel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u541	School harassment is neither trivial nor trivial. It is everywhere, in all institutions, in all classrooms. It took us some time to put just words on this phenomenon, which we have so far tended to underestimate, to see as quarrels without consequences between students. It took us some time to understand the mechanisms at work, to see this phenomenon for what it is – an insidious phenomenon, based on group effects and a sense of impunity – and to deculpabilize the victims, to whom it was sometimes thought that, if they were bullied, they might be a little responsible. We say again: the victim never bears in her the source of her harassment. Today, after unfortunately too many tragedies, awareness is general. We put a word on this suffering, on this violence, on these lasting and unbearable traumas for the victims and their parents. Understanding was the first step. Protecting must be the second. This proposal for a law will, we hope, complement the PHARE scheme which has been in place since the start of the school year. If it was necessary to define a specific offence of school harassment in order to better identify it and to create a deterrent effect, this should not be a substitute for the failure of schools to protect pupils. Our Freedom and Territory Group recalls the need for a proportionate scale of penalties. However, Article 4 does not fully meet this requirement. Above all, we recall the priority of combating school harassment: training and prevention. Our group will, of course, support this bill, but let us really afford the necessary resources, ladies and gentlemen, failing which the obligation of protection imposed on establishments will remain a pious wish. Minister, it will, of course, be necessary to better train and educate the educational community and school medicine in order to prevent school harassment, but this means investing to empower them today.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u542	Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u543	Our group, La France insoumise, will abstain from this bill because, if the subject deserves to be dealt with, it must not be in accordance with the terms that you choose today, in particular that of judicialization. Indeed, the judicialization of society, a fundamental trend that you have noted, Minister, will certainly not solve this problem. You say that this text is a milestone, especially with regard to platforms, but how many young people are at risk of being harassed before these platforms evolve? If we do not give the means to apply the catalogue of sensible measures that already exist, all this is useless. I have also heard of empathy classes, but what empathy is there in the current policies? What empathy toward our teachers, minister? How does empathy translate into reality, in budgets, in valorisation, in the recognition of a completely proletarianized profession? Teachers aren't even trained to teach, and we'd like to train them elsewhere? As you can see, we will not be able to solve this serious problem with a law that merely creates a specific crime.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u544	Laborious!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u545	All of this is blabla: without means, there is no prevention, so dramas are not prevented. Now, that's what counts, even if you speak of it with a tight heart and a poignant tone. Since the means are so important, I invite you to be present at the new reading of the finance bill,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u546	We're here!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u547	We're even in committee for the review of bills!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u548	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] ... to ensure that teachers and the entire educational community have the means to prevent all the problems we have raised today.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u549	Mrs Karine Lebon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u550	The legislation we have reviewed today deals with a particularly important issue. Seven hundred thousand students are reported to be harassed each year: this figure is staggering for a country like ours, and it is only increasing. We pointed out earlier the multiple consequences of these harassments, which take the lives of too many children every year. We must therefore recognize the merit of this bill in allowing debate on this issue, which has so far been too relegated to the background. While we welcome the work done by our colleagues to identify problems, we regret that the text does not respond quite properly to them. Thus, it was said that this bill intended to be based on the methods employed in the world of work. This parallel seems to us to be a problem. Methods used on adults have certainly been able to prove their worth,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u551	That's not what I said!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u552	... but it must never be forgotten that this bill mainly concerns children. Misbehaviour must certainly be punished, but sanctions must remain proportionate and coupled with strengthened pedagogy and monitoring. This is also true for both the aggressor and the victim when they are minors, according to experts such as Catherine Blaya, former president of the International Observatory on Violence in Schools and author of a book on this issue. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] The role of parents should also be clarified. Françoise Penent, technical adviser to the rectorate and responsible for the harassment case at the Académie de La Réunion, recently noted that parents had not seized the tools that existed to reverse the violence. She wanted to say that the parents did not report to the court because they did not have access to it and did not know it. So before we try to crack down more heavily, should we not invest in job creation, in an effective school medicine network and in new educational devices, while remedying the fact that the current schemes are neither sufficiently well known nor sufficiently used? In the absence of commitments to this end, the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left will abstain.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u553	Mrs Zivka Park has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u554	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to thank you for the quality of the debates we had this afternoon on such an important subject for the lives of our children and for our life in society. We have seen the extent of the phenomenon of school harassment in our society, a phenomenon whose confinement has revealed that it does not stop at the borders of the school. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for putting this bill on the agenda, highlighting the essential aspect of prevention, with the awareness of all actors. It is also important to impose a ban by creating an autonomous offence of school harassment. For having been, in recent years, to meet students in several institutions, I can tell you that, for them, harassment is a notion that they hear quite often, but that they relate to the world of adults, without realizing that harassment also affects them. When they are told that there are two, three or four harassed students in each class, their faces express their astonishment and it is realized that they did not realize what some of their comrades could live on a daily basis. I would also like to thank you, Mr Minister, for, while much has been done over the last ten years, measures to combat school harassment have intensified, including the PHARE programme and the appointment of ambassadors against harassment. If the fight against harassment has not been declared a national cause, it is as if it had been since 2017. I would also like to take this opportunity to commend the essential work done throughout the territory by the associations, which work daily for our children and which we should all thank collectively. I regret that the limits of the framework of this bill have not allowed us to address the essential issue of rebuilding harassers and harassers, which we will have to deal with in the future. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] As you will have understood, ladies and gentlemen, the La République on the move Group will enthusiastically vote on this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u555	Mr Maxime Minot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u556	In view of the seriousness of this subject and its implications, the Republican Group would like to point out that, beyond the law, the application of the law must be strengthened. While schools have their share of responsibility, this is also the responsibility of all stakeholders. As we have all seen, and as we have said during our debates, harassment, although it is called "school", is not limited to the walls of the school and concerns the institutional actors, be it local authorities, associations, social networks or platforms, but also the students and their parents – who, as I will never recall enough, are the first educators of their children, because it is to them that this education falls on, not on the teaching teams. Once it is not customary, minister, I will repeat your words because, for once, I agree with you: it is essential to prevent, intervene and train. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Exclaims and smiles on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups. – Minister also smiles]] We would have liked you to hear the few proposals that we have made in vain, but since we are not sectarian, and we are not in a systematic opposition, we will vote in favour of this text. I'm glad to make you smile, Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u557	Fayot!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u558	[[Smile]] That's harassment! It starts like this...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u559	Mrs Blandine Brocard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u560	The debates we have had today alone reveal the extent of school harassment in our country and the very keen awareness that we have here, on every bench, of the need to act to protect our children. Many of us took the opportunity to share testimonies from children, parents and families broken by repeated acts of humiliation, exclusion or discrimination. These situations are obviously unacceptable, and all the more so since they are part of a school setting. The school of the Republic cannot accept, as we have said, that such actions take place within it, whereas its mission is to protect and accompany our children. We have also recalled that many measures have already been taken in recent years, and very recently, by the President of the Republic and by you, Mr. Minister, to combat this scourge. Thank you, Minister, for having accepted this text, for having always been very sensitive to this cause and for having already made a great deal of progress in our schools. Thank you also for your presence with us throughout our discussions. Voting this bill is essential. By adopting it, we strongly oppose harassment, but we also offer new tools to fight this phenomenon more effectively, all actors combined. The first is to identify it, by improving the training of the personnel who surround the children, so that they can prevent and accompany cases of harassment more upstream. It is also a question of sanctioning where necessary. With the introduction of an awareness-raising course, we choose to propose an educational sanction and, with the creation of a specific offence, we recall, it is true, the seriousness of these facts. Finally, while we stressed the worsening of school harassment through the use of social networks, it was essential to involve more widely platforms and access providers in the fight against harassment. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem and LaREM groups]] For all these reasons, the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats Group will of course vote in favour of the bill proposed by our colleague Erwan Balanant. Together, we will enable our children to become mature, confident and responsible adults.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u561	Mrs Sylvie Tolmont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u562	We are all convinced that school harassment is a scourge that affects our children. Of course, we can only share the objectives of this bill to better guarantee the right to protection against school harassment, to train school doctors and to establish a care protocol. However, as you will have understood, we are sceptical about the creation, in Article 4 of the text, of an autonomous infringement. We doubt that an essentially repressive response will help to combat school harassment, especially since there are already provisions on moral harassment and cyber-harassment in our criminal legislation. The difficulty of such a provision also lies in the fact that very few students file complaints since harassment is still poorly identified and the victims do not dare to tell adults about their situation. How could this essentially repressive provision encourage children to talk to adults, because that is what is being discussed? In addition, we are concerned about the harshness of the penalties provided for: three years in prison and 45,000 euros in fine and up to ten years in prison and 150,000 euros in fine in case of attempted suicide. The harassing students remain children, ill in their skin and often suffer from precarious living conditions: these children could be punished. Because we fear that this answer is not the right one, the Socialist and related group will abstain from this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u563	Mrs Agnès Firmin Le Bodo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u564	Thank you, dear Erwan Balanant, for allowing us, thanks to this bill, to debate the school harassment which, as we have all said, is a real scourge since it affects more than 700000 children in our country, as many families and teachers who find themselves in difficult situations each year. This bill makes school harassment a crime. The Action Together group supports this measure, which focuses on the nature of school harassment. The text also contains various measures to train teachers and the medical profession. It's an important step that's taken here. Psychological follow-up is provided to child victims and children who are harassed. However, I regret that we have not been able to make further progress on this issue. Minister, as you said, the measures you have taken make the fight against school harassment a long-term national cause, but we would have liked to go further by highlighting the very important work of the associations. Unlocking the word is probably the element on which we must be able to move forward as quickly as possible, so that fear changes sides. Opening the platform 24 hours a day and three hundred and sixty-five days a year would further promote the essential release of speech. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] The Group of the European People's Party is very much in favour of this text, which it will vote for.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u565	I put the whole bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u566	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 74 Number of votes cast 69 Absolute majority 35 For adoption 69 Against 0
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-01-O1080.u567	Next meeting, tomorrow, at 9 a.m.: Discussion of the proposal for a law on health accessible to all and against medical desertification; Discussion of the motion for a resolution on the establishment of an exceptional plan to accompany the accelerated ageing of Martinique; Discussion of the bill to reduce the inequalities in access to higher education generated by Parcoursup; Discussion of the motion for a resolution to combat the trivialisation of hate speech in the public debate; Discussion of the proposed law on various social justice measures; Discussion of the proposal for a European resolution on the financing of the ecological transition; Discussion of the draft law guaranteeing the free choice of municipalities in the management of water and sanitation skills; Discussion of the proposal for an organic law for the protection of common property and the proposal for a law creating a legal status for common property. The meeting is adjourned.
