ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u1	The next item is the swearing-in before the National Assembly of one judge and two alternate judges of the Court of Justice of the Republic. According to article 2 of the Organic Law on the Court of Justice of the Republic, parliamentary judges "swear and promise well and faithfully to perform their duties, to keep the secret of deliberations and votes and to conduct themselves in all ways as worthy and loyal judges". I pray to Messrs. The judges would kindly rise to the call of their name and, raising their right hand, reply with the words: "I swear." [[Didier Paris rises and raises his right hand]] I'm calling Mr. Didier Paris, Judge-in-Charge.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u2	I swear.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u3	[[François Jolivet rises and raises his right hand]] I call Mr. François Jolivet, alternate judge.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u4	I swear.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u5	[[Mr. Jean-Michel Mis rises and raises his right hand]] I call Mr. Jean-Michel Mis, alternate judge.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u6	I swear.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u7	Act is therefore given by the National Assembly oaths that have just been taken before it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u8	The next item is the debate on longer payment deadlines and measures to remedy them in times of crisis. The Conference of Presidents decided to hold this debate in two parts. As a first step, we will hear speakers from the groups and then from the Government; We will then proceed to a sequence of questions and answers. Mrs Marguerite Deprez-Audebert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u9	The Group of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and Related Democrats wanted to include on the agenda, during the National Assembly's monitoring week, a debate on the extension of payment deadlines and measures to remedy them in times of crisis, as they have multiple implications for the financing and liquidity of SMEs and TPEs. Cash, as everyone knows, is the nerve of war for every business. Management is therefore crucial. What was perceived for a long time as a certain let go in France in the payment of invoices, but which was in fact rather a desire to increase the cash flow by extending the settlement deadlines, finally led to real difficulties for suppliers. The terms and conditions of purchase of the largest suppliers of orders often prevailed over the terms and conditions of sale of the smallest companies or subcontractors. For this reason, the Economic Modernization Act, known as the LME Act, has introduced a settlement deadline of 60 days for business-to-business transactions. The average payment times then decreased: the customer period fell from fifty-one to forty-four days, and the supplier period fell from sixty-two to fifty-one days. However, while the situation improved just after the law was applied, unfortunately it further deteriorated, sometimes very sharply, the delays for some SMEs to about 100 days, resulting in the weakening of the SME fabric and even the deposit of balance sheets of many companies initially in good health but forced to put the key to the door due to a lack of cash flow. An analysis of companies' late payments in Europe shows that there is a great disparity in situations between our neighbours. Over the period 2017 to 2019, the average time frame is around 13 days in the European Union countries, but only 7 days in Germany, compared to 25 days in Portugal. It should also be noted that, in the European Directive of 16 February 2011, the rule is thirty days in the silence of the contract, while the deadline is sixty days in France. Signs that the situation is particularly complicated for our companies, the burden of inter-firm credit amounted to an average of 11 days of turnover in 2018. The balance of inter-firm credit is a significant indicator of firm strength and health: expressed in days of turnover, it reflects their position, whether lending or borrowing, vis-à-vis their trading partners. Where it is positive, the company finances its partners through inter-firm credit; In the opposite case, its partners finance it. However, while this ratio has generally declined until 2019, there are differences depending on the size of businesses and sectors of activity. The business advisory sector, for example, suffers from very high customer deadlines of 75 days, while suppliers have to be paid faster, so that the inter-firm credit balance is on average 45 days of turnover. Similarly, magazine printers must pay their paper suppliers within 30 days, whereas they are only paid by their publisher customers when they are themselves paid by distribution couriers, sometimes at 180 days. With this recent general context being recalled, I come to the subject of the debate: the impact of the health crisis on the payment deadlines of French companies. Since March, several alerts have been issued to the Ministry of Economy, Finance and Recovery on the tendency of some large companies to build up a precautionary cash flow, on the back of their small suppliers, by extending payment deadlines. This inventory approach is understandable when one knows that a quarter of companies may experience a cash crisis next year. The situation will then be all the more critical since it will be necessary to start repaying loans, including EMPs – state-guaranteed loans – and to pay the expense offsets.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u10	It won't be funny!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u11	Although we can understand the motivations, these are dangerous attitudes that weaken the whole economic fabric. Let me also welcome the role of the eighty mediators, including many volunteers, who have responded to the many demands of small and medium-sized enterprises in difficulty. They made more than 5000 interventions in 2020, compared to 500 in 2019. Due to the deterioration in the cash flow of companies due to the crisis and the deliberate blocking of invoices by large companies, delays in payment in France have increased, to thirteen days, with an average record of 18 days for SMEs and TPEs, 16 days longer than the previous year, while these companies are obviously the most fragile, due to their size and weak capitalisation. The overall system of flows between enterprises has thus slowed down. Any non-exemplary payment behaviour has chain consequences that we know: runoff frightful, until decay. The main challenge is trust. Like the previous financial crisis, in which banks refused to lend themselves to each other for fear of not being repaid, companies were now using their payments to build up a reserve to compensate for their lack of confidence in the future. On behalf of my group, I call on the state to play a role of confidence-building. In fact, the Government has already undertaken a number of actions. I am thinking, for example, of the creation of a system for rating companies' payment deadlines, based on the model of financial rating agencies. Let us also recall the provisions adopted in the latest financial laws. On the one hand, companies were forced to dematerialize all their invoices by 2025. This should result in a saving of processing time, thus mechanically a faster payment. On the other hand, the State has been allowed to grant its guarantee to professional claims and thus to create immediate cash flow support. The payment of cash to a company will thus be anticipated, even before the invoice is issued. The objective of this measure is also to build trust between companies and to support recovery, at a relatively low cost to the State. Finally, we note the generalization of the Chorus Pro tool, designed to boost the processing of invoices, since 1 January. This is a welcome initiative to establish a single, free entry point for receipt and transmission of invoices. Let us hope that, thanks to these initiatives, we will not be forced to deflate the amount of fines in case of recidivism, as proposed by the SMEC – Confederation of Small and Medium Enterprises. It should also be noted that public procurement plays an important role in this critical period. The reduction of the State's payment deadlines was defined very early as a priority, which resulted in a reduction of the payment period from 45 to 19 days for the entire public order, proof whether the actions carried out and the political will from which they result are effective. Invoice payment services have also been reorganized into single centres for the processing and payment of invoices, placed with the public accountant. Appointed SFACT – a service of incarcerated services – they are now working for central and deconcentrated administrations. Finally, in the face of the recent liquidity pressures exacerbated by the crisis, my group, on the proposal of its president, Patrick Mignola, has given rise to the incorporation of the principle of reverse factoring into the PACTE law – on business growth and transformation. This new tool addresses the shortcomings of conventional factoring, which SMEs criticized for management difficulties and the role in reducing their margins. Unlike conventional factoring, reverse factoring is implemented by the customer and not by the supplier. He thus gives more responsibility to the originators, entrusting them with the decision to order a third party to pay his claimant as soon as possible and in his place. The committee is then divided, which is more equitable. Inverted factoring will thus usefully complement the current tool palette, whose operation was first designed to help public buyers. As an example, the scheme may then benefit from indirect promotion to private buyers. Many communities have made efforts and will not need to make use of them. For example, the Hauts-de-France region now pays its suppliers at 30 days. But not all have the same will or the same means. On the private side, practiced by large buyers – I am thinking among other things of the large distribution sector – reverse factoring can be an excellent tool for exiting crisis, because win-win for the revival of our economy. It should be noted that a club of companies labeled followers of this means of payment is being set up. This collaborative reverse factoring, recently implemented by the Government, will reduce payment delays, which currently account for 25 per cent of business failures. It will represent a potential leverage of 12 billion to 14 billion euros. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem, LaREM and Agir ens groups]] This confidence-building tool to meet the growing cash flow needs of TPE-SMEs, as well as other measures adopted by the Government, will be particularly useful to these enterprises in the current crisis.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u12	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u13	Mrs. Christine Pires Beaune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u14	The Dem Group invites us to discuss this afternoon the extension of payment deadlines and measures to remedy them in times of crisis. Our group had worked on this issue within the framework of the PACTE Act and then put forward a number of proposals. Among them was the strengthening of moratorium interests, particularly for public persons, in order to encourage compliance with these deadlines. We also proposed a change in the order of preferred creditors in order, at the stage of collective proceedings, to favour claims held by SME-ETPs with more fragile cash flows. At the time, our proposals were not in your interest, but since you are proposing to debate them again, we are taking the ball to the leap. Even before mentioning the current situation, marked by the epidemic of covid-19, we can identify two opposing dynamics in the evolution of payment deadlines in 2019. The payment deadlines for French companies have remained at the level observed since 2015: the supplier deadlines are now fifty-one days of purchase for the third consecutive year and the customer deadlines are forty-four days of turnover, unchanged since 2014. Since the introduction of the Modernisation of the Economy Act, these deadlines have been reduced by an average of two days for SMEs and intermediate enterprises, while they have increased by one day for large enterprises. Similarly, less than half of large companies settle their suppliers without delay, while more than 70% of SMEs comply with the regulatory ceiling. However, these size-based data hide significant differences between sectors of activity: in 2018, the time frame extended from six days of turnover for the accommodation and catering sector to seventy-eight days for the information and communication sector. While payment periods have fallen by an average of 10 to 15 days in different sectors over the past 15 years, several of them still have average payment periods longer than the statutory 60-day period. In the transport sector, which certainly has a 30-day derogation period for certain activities, the actual deadlines are thus far more than fifty-five days. As far as public order-holders are concerned, on average national deadlines fell from 36 days in 2011 to 14.9 days in 2019 – the full year of the changeover of government spending in the Chorus Pro software package – for all expenditure, and from 45.1 to 19.4 days for the public order. All categories of local and hospital communities and public institutions combined, the average payment period is very slightly deteriorated, by 0.6 days. The average payment time of the municipalities increased very slightly between 2018 and 2019, from 20 to 20.2 days; At the same time, the payment period for departments has been increased from 23 to 23.1 days. This growth momentum, while limited, is, however, a matter of concern to us, given the sharp decline in the resources of these communities, particularly the departments, in 2020. The rise of public accountants in the field shows a deterioration in payment times due to the drying up of the community's cash flow. During the review of the PLF for 2021, we had alerted the majority about the consequences of the lack of effective compensation for local government revenue losses: in addition to the worrying impact on investment, this deterioration in cash flow will have a clear impact on payment deadlines and the situation of companies – unfortunately we will have to wait a few more months before measuring its magnitude. Mr. Secretary of State for Digital Transition and Electronic Communications, in times of crisis – as this is the subject of our debate – yet the state must preserve the cash flow of local economic actors and public order providers in order to avoid cascade failures. With regard to the relations between companies themselves, we note that delays are deteriorating, especially for the most important companies, with a snowball effect throughout the value chain. The situation of SMEs is all the more uncertain as they are also the first to face the difficulties of paying individuals. Mr Secretary of State, what steps do you intend to take to preserve the cash flow of these companies and thus avoid divestitures of cascading activities? Finally, for companies that would be in collective proceedings, is the Government now open to reform of the order of privileged creditors, so that the most fragile economic actors are not the most penalized by the crisis?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u15	Mr Vincent Ledoux has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u16	Thank you to the Dem Group for putting on the agenda the key issue we have to deal with today: the increase in payment deadlines, compounded by the current crisis. Despite the accompanying measures of the State, all the economic actors, in particular the commercial courts and the labour councils, refer, in this period of return favourable to the exchange of wishes, to the macabre scenario of late payments and the gradual drying up of the treasury, which leads to the cessation of payment and, alas, the definitive closure. The most fragile are not the large groups, able to do the big back to the bad winds, but rather the fabric of small and medium-sized enterprises. I am informed of payment delays of an average of 18.6 days, which means that payment takes place 48 days after the benefit, i.e. an additional week compared to 2019. This is a real deflagration, which endangers the health of our SMEs and weighs on their life expectancy: the Bank of France's payment deadlines observatory considers, in its 2019 report, that the risk of default increases by more than 40% in case of significantly high overruns. These late payments are also sums of money that are lacking when we have to reinvent and reinvigorate the activity with a suitable economic model. While in many cases they are explained by the actual inability of the customer to honour his invoices, they are also sometimes the result of a deliberate desire to build up reserves, i.e. a precaution cash, on the backs of small suppliers. This "pasta stock syndrome", as they say, is the opposite of the necessary economic solidarity that should prevail in these harsh times of crisis. In addition to their production continuity plans, large companies would therefore be inspired to deploy continuity payment plans; It is a question of economic morality and patriotic citizenship. Of course, the EMPs and the participative loans have played their role as shock absorbers, but the virus is still there, if I dare this metaphor. The payment deadline given by companies to their customers from a circular perspective is a pillar of our economy. This is why the state has chosen to resort to name and shame, a practice that is certainly less violent than the medieval pillory, which consists of posting on the website of the DGCCRF – Directorate-General for Competition, Consumption and the Suppression of Frauds – the names of the companies that pay its late payment, the latter also having to publish the sanction at their own expense in the local and national press since the law PACTE. However, this remains insufficient. It is necessary to pass a step above, with strong measures, such as the creation of a credit rating agency for payment deadlines, which, on the model of conventional credit rating agencies, would assign to each company, after assessing the risk of non-reimbursement, a public rating function of the speed with which it settles its invoices. This agency would have the advantage of ensuring greater upstream transparency on the practices of companies which, although solvent, do not comply with payment deadlines, by making it difficult for them to access credit. Conversely, this would enhance the reputation and image of those who play CSR – corporate social responsibility. This agency seems to have the Government's approval in its post-covid agenda. Nevertheless, let us not deceive ourselves: not all solutions are in our hands or even in those of the State; It is also up to companies and actors to act. At the time when I was only the modest mayor of Roncq, I had managed to bring down the city's payment deadlines from forty-five to twenty days, challenging my teams and using dedicated digital tools to smooth the billing process. In France, the average time required to convert an invoice issued into cash is estimated at 59 days, compared with an average of 50 days in Europe. The administrative processing time is on average two weeks, knowing that the development of telework has greatly disrupted the processes of collection of invoices in the least optimized environments. The current crisis therefore obliges the financial management of companies not only to "perform" their teams but also to create a culture of cash flow: every player in the value chain, from the receipt of the order to the payment order of the invoice, must take the measure of the impact of the deprivation of cash and act at its level to reduce payment times. The State has a number of levers to help businesses, but nothing will be done without this culture of liquidity that needs to be created. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] In conclusion, if it is therefore necessary for the State to act more and better to curb the scourge of payment deadlines and punish as much as necessary, each company must imbue itself with the culture of cash in order to give itself its own means of action; It is a question of collective will and digitalization, a real cultural transition that the state must accompany massively.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u17	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u18	Mr Christophe Naegelen has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u19	The health crisis has had many negative effects on businesses. Among them, there has been a marked increase in late payments, creating significant liquidity pressures. Particularly affecting small businesses, which are more fragile than large groups, the payment delays of SMEs now amount to an average of 18.6 days, meaning that payment takes place 48 days after delivery; It's a week longer than in 2019. Longer payment deadlines mean de facto weakening suppliers, which make our employees and our national economy live locally. This is not only worrying but even shocking when these late payments come from deliberate blockages, without justification, on the part of companies that could pay but prefer to keep reserves. There is more reason to be indignant when we know that larger companies are more likely to pay their suppliers late than smaller ones. The law shall limit such time limits to 30 days, or 60 days in the event of agreement between the parties, from the date of resignation of the invoice, subject to a fine if the time limits are not respected. According to the Business Ombudsman, every day almost forty SMEs are putting the key to the process due to late payments. It is therefore essential to reduce delays in payment in order to safeguard the cash flow of companies. In order to put pressure on the wrong payers, the state has for several years developed the practice of name and shame, by posting on the DGCCRF website the names of companies that have been fined for not paying their invoices on time. Since last year, these companies have also been obliged to publish, at their own expense, the sanction notice in the local press. But it must be noted that the State itself is far from being exemplary, since the problem also arises in the public sector.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u20	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u21	The observation is deplorable: almost one in two companies now refuse to respond to public tenders for fear of overpayments or too long payment deadlines.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u22	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u23	In 2019, while remaining on average within the statutory deadlines, local authorities and local and hospital public institutions increased to 27.4 days late. This is even more striking for large communities: a quarter or almost half of them make payments beyond the statutory deadline of 30 days. This is all the more regrettable given that, with the recovery plan, public tenders will amount to billions of euros in the coming months. But the loss of profits for French SMEs, too worried to apply, will be considerable. It is therefore imperative to send them a strong signal that will reassure them and encourage them to seize this opportunity. Mandatory for all businesses from 2023 onwards, electronic invoicing could, according to the Minister responsible for small and medium-sized enterprises, save three to four days within the payment deadlines. Why, Secretary of State, not make it mandatory in the public sector right now? This would set an example and restore attractiveness to public procurement. I expect from this debate, Mr Secretary of State, that you will detail the emergency measures that you intend to take so that the State and the public administrations, which must lead by example, scrupulously comply with the payment deadlines. We had tabled an amendment on the subject, which was rejected by the Government. If you really want to send a positive signal to companies and suppliers, therefore, accept that the state is no longer a priority in corporate liquidations and that suppliers can be paid first. It's important for their cash flow. You cannot constantly ask companies, big and small, to make efforts and concessions, without the state also making them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u24	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u25	I will start with the issue of payment deadlines in the public sector. As it happens to me sometimes, I'll tell you about my old life.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u26	[[Smile]] It is true that you often tell your life...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u27	Not so often anyway! My previous job, at the Ministry of the Interior, was that of Chorus platform leader. We have already talked a lot about Chorus regarding the dematerialisation of invoices, known as "SFACTisation", which I knew just before being elected: the invoices arrive directly at the public contact, which saves two to three days of payment deadlines. In my case, there has been a reversal of the invoicing service: we started to transfer the invoices to the Regional Directorate of Public Finance, then we went back because the payment period had increased and it led to paying more interest moratoriums each year. You'll agree with me that it wasn't terrible for the public money, but Bercy absolutely wanted to go through the invoicing service to reduce payment times. I want to alert on one point. Yes, I agree with the theoretical principle of transferring this competence to the Regional Directorate of Public Finance, in order to reduce the unnecessary steps; I have no problem with that. But we must put the means into it: on the other hand, the agents of the regional branches of the public finance services must be sufficiently numerous to be able to handle the flow of invoices! It's nice to say that there are too many officials, too many administrations. But who pays the bills? To do so, it is not enough to put on a stamp and make the check – there is no more, moreover – or the transfer. Here is the real subject: before paying an invoice, you check its reality with the service performed, you check that it is the right amount, because you are the guarantor of the public funds. I'd like to stop telling anything about the public sector. And I ask you to distinguish territorial authorities from the state. The figures have been given: the state, for the moment, has become a payer that is not too bad.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u28	Yes, yes.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u29	That's the case, it has to be recognized. I want us to sue some, but not this one. For local and regional authorities, that is another thing: we could discuss the reorganisation of the accounting services of the communes again.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u30	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u31	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u32	Once again, we remove officials here or there, and then we realize that it takes more time to pay! My faith, perhaps we have to do the opposite... As far as the private sector is concerned, I am sorry, but the problem is not with payment deadlines. Wanting to solve the crisis of covid-19 and the cash flow of companies by paying the bills faster is a view of the mind! Private debt increased by 175 billion euros as a result of the first confinement, while it already stood at 1600 billion euros. I insist on this amount: 1,600 billion euros. As we are more likely to say that of public debt, I allow myself to speak with a little emphasis on private debt, you will understand it... More seriously, with regard to state-guaranteed loans, do you think that it is by paying bills faster that the situation will improve? No! What should be paid today will always have to be paid tomorrow and the day after! State-guaranteed loans will mature because they are not subsidies but loans to be repaid. How are we gonna do this? The first loans will mature around March 2022.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u33	Yeah...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u34	Then the next government will have some difficulties on this point as soon as it arrives.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u35	You may be the Minister of Finance!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u36	No, I will not be Minister of Finance, dear colleague; I'll take care of other things... In any case, private debt cannot be repaid in full!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u37	No, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u38	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u39	Thinking, in good Schumpeterian, that creative destruction will do its work and that everything will balance... Still, we are talking about the destruction of jobs, of lives, of work tools, of people who have put their entire lives at the service of their small business, of their craft, of their bar, of their restaurant, etc. The theory of practice must be distinguished from the concrete. I therefore ask the Government: what have you planned to deal with this private debt? Are you planning to cancel part of the debt by raising it to the state level? This is the first step. The second step is to negotiate a gradual cancellation of the debt with the European Central Bank, able to redeem the debt of the State and to introduce what is called a "helicopter currency" or a "perpetual debt", options increasingly put forward by economists who are neither Marxist nor particularly revolutionary, but who look at the facts: we are facing a catastrophe. Good if payment deadlines improve, but if we could also avoid cascading bankruptcies and the systemic effects that go with them, that would be even more interesting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u40	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u41	Administrative closures and the application of health protocols have severely affected businesses for almost a year, as is well known. This has led to another threat to our economy and its viability: the extension of payment deadlines between companies, which is, as I understand it, the subject of the day. These delays affect the cash flow of suppliers, who in turn can be encouraged to postpone payment of their invoices and thus fuel a dangerous vicious circle. The consequences are negative for all sectors: job losses, lack of competitiveness and innovation, risk of bankruptcy for the most fragile companies. While inter-firm credit already reached more than 700 billion euros in France before the outbreak of the crisis of the covid-19, it gained ground last year, to the point of becoming a threat to the sustainability of many small structures. The risk of serial failures is real. Payment deadlines, which averaged 11 days over the last three years, have thus increased to 14 and a half days at the end of September 2020, according to a KPMG study. This phenomenon weakens these enterprises all the more because it particularly affects sectors of activity already heavily affected by the crisis, including restaurants and cafes, as is well known. In the face of the risk of a domino effect, the vicious circle of lengthening deadlines must be brought to an end. The Libertés et Territoires Group welcomes the reactivity of the Ministry of Economy, Finance and Recovery, which has adopted, since March, an approach to raising awareness among major contractors, in order to encourage them to pay their subcontractors and suppliers in a timely manner. Some order-holders, such as Action logement, RTE or Michelin, set up an accelerated payment from their suppliers. In addition, the Government has allowed small businesses with cash flow problems to spread their expenses over twelve, twenty-four or thirty-six months. The aim is to give liquidity back to many of them, who are currently running out of cash and waiting to be paid by other companies, who are also in difficulty. These measures are all the more necessary in view of the fact that late payment affects all categories of enterprises. The average late payment of SMEs thus jumped from almost ten days to almost nineteen days, while in 2019 the overall payment deadlines were all the higher as companies were large, according to the annual report of the payment deadlines observatory. While the measures taken are in the right direction, the Libertés et Territoires Group would like to point out that France remains the only European country to present payment deadlines higher than their pre-pandemic levels, with an increase of 17% since mid-March. On the other hand, while the crisis has amplified the delays in payment between companies, let us not forget that this vicious circle was already threatening before the epidemic. In recent years, these delays were not receding and a slight increase had even been observed in 2019. The support of artisans and managers of TPE-SME remains essential: a better understanding of regulation and financing solutions would allow them to strengthen their cash flow and not be penalized by a lack of information. In addition, we also call for an exemplary public sphere in terms of compliance with payment deadlines. In this way, we support the SMEC proposal, which calls on all departments to sign the "Responsible Supplier Relations" charter and to adopt a strategy for obtaining the supplier relations and responsible procurement label. Let us not forget that late payments are inextricably linked to the debt of many SMEs. The crisis has increased the tendency in recent years for companies to use credit to finance their cash flow, due to very low interest rates, rather than seeking to generate cash and then reduce payment times. The price guaranteed by the State contributes to this logic which is not very sound on the merits. Finally, experts agree that the improvement of the expected economic situation for next year – we hope – will not necessarily reduce late payments in the short term. Indeed, as the business resumes, cash requirements are rising as a result of tensions related to working capital requirements. However, for some companies, the first repayment deadlines for the EMPs will come, that is to say, as well as those for social and tax charges carry-overs. We hope, for our part, that the Government's negotiations with the banks for a new repayment period for EMPs will succeed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u42	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u43	This debate, on an important subject, was necessary. As noted, at the end of 2020, the Bank of France found that non-financial companies had outstanding debts in excess of EUR 1800 billion. Similarly, delays in payment are increasing, reaching a delay of more than 18 days. The SME-ETPs, of course, are the most affected by this situation, because they have the lowest cash flow. Those which are closed administratively, as well as those which are upstream of the stationary sectors, are particularly vulnerable. Since all these companies are linked by debts and debts that tend to increase in time, it is essential to target public support for these small businesses and to imagine new tools in an emergency. In order to avoid a cascade in bankruptcy, with, of course, the employment stakes attached to them, it seems essential that the State should act on the debts over which it has the hand, in the first place the EMPs, by transforming these loans into quasi-equity so as to strengthen companies without compromising their future. However, despite the importance of this subject, the GDR Group wishes to deconceive, or even reverse, the angle of this debate by evoking a problem that is almost never mentioned: the deadlines for payment by households. I am talking about the payment of all automatic expenses at the beginning of the month, which quickly become a burden when the economic situation deteriorates. It has been widely heard that, in the wake of the crisis and confinement, the French have been able to save close to 46 billion euros, if not more, it seems to me. However, this amount is particularly misleading and marked by wide disparities. The Economic Analysis Board noted, in particular, that households in the first two deciles, i.e. the 20 per cent of the most modest households, had had to dissipate or even become in debt during the crisis in order to cope with expenditure. Many signs are not wrong. Electricity suppliers report an increase in delays and unpaid payments, without giving precise figures at this stage; However, they note that three-quarters of the unpaid payments are currently from clients who are usually not insecure. In terms of housing, according to insurance institutions, unpaid rents and late payment of rents increased by 30 per cent during the health crisis, and nearly 50 per cent of real estate loan holders plan to apply for a monthly deferral from their bank. The observation is similar for other credits, such as automobile credits or consumer credits, these famous credits endorsed by the banks for their high profitability, giving rise to push-to-crime advertisements: they constitute real time bombs for household budgets. The UFC-Que Choosing, in a study published last December, reported the sharp increase in these credits in 2020; With this surge, the risk of unpaid payments is expected to increase significantly in 2021, to 40%. However, we never hear about the payment deadlines of modest households. Admittedly, the problem raised by the debate on the agenda does not lead us to question aid to companies, since it is useful and framed; In fact, we regularly intervene on this point, which is essential in the period we are living in. But your tropism towards businesses is again at work: support for households has been limited to a few ad hoc aids; you have not announced a mechanism for banks, insurance, energy suppliers and essential services to release pressure on indebted households. One could, for example, have decided to suspend any monthly credit payments in the event of a decrease in income. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] The Bank of France expects a rebound in debt relief procedures. Mr Secretary of State, what measures do you intend to take to prevent a spiral of household over-indebtedness, which is also an issue of economic recovery?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u44	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u45	Mrs Barbara Bessot Ballot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u46	Everyone who knows the business world knows and regrets this: payment deadlines are a French specialty that we would gladly do without. The Group of the European People's Party (La République en marche) thanks the Dem Group for asking for this topic to be included on the agenda this afternoon. Indeed, while it may seem trivial, some of its aspects are decisive for the competitiveness of French companies. With the best will of the world, successive governments have tried to absorb these periods of latency, including accumulation, which produces a snowball effect, atrophy of cash. Worse, they doubly penalize small and medium-sized enterprises. It is David against Goliath: they suffer delays, imposed by the balance of forces with the big companies that are their partners. One in two large companies fail to meet payment deadlines. Our SMEs face the blow every time they lag behind and find themselves weakened. Since the 2008 financial crisis, payment deadlines have stagnated, after an improvement in the 2000s; They averaged 11 days, compared with 7 days in Germany and 4 days in the Netherlands. Far from being annoyed, this situation has a painful and profound impact, not only on the health of our SMEs and ETIs – mid-size companies – but also on the philosophy of the company in France – on what the High Commissioner on the Plan calls our "spirit of conquest". As a businesswoman, co-founder twenty-five years ago of a family SME, I am happy to join the ranks of politicians and economists who call for the emergence of a French Mittelstand. This fabric of interdependent, specialized and leading-edge family businesses in their respective fields is a reality across the Rhine but serves as a chimera in France. But how do you want the climate of confidence in the future, the cooperation between business leaders and the serenity needed to flourish and take risks, when bailing out its cash flow with what is needed sometimes falls within the combatant's path? Aware of a structural problem that the crisis has only exacerbated, several Members of the majority, of which I am a member, set up a working group on regulatory adaptations and simplification in the summer of 2020. The payment deadlines emerged as a priority project in a context of crisis and recovery, as was seen in 2008, and, unfortunately, it will probably be verified with 2020: the crisis favours delays, materially and psychologically, because great is the temptation to keep a safety mattress when the only concern is to survive. In order to identify urgent cases and avoid cascading failures, a crisis committee on payment deadlines was set up on 23 March and met frequently. Bercy performed his role as a gendarmerie when necessary, punishing those who did not play the game of solidarity. However, many indicators, which show a sharp worsening in 2020, lead to alarms. The preliminary indicators available highlight a significant increase in deadlines in the summer of 2020: France would be the only European country not to have regained its pre-crisis level. Economic recovery is a necessary condition for improvement, but it is not sufficient. Visibility and confidence will be essential to ease customer-supplier relations. The course is clear: the recovery plan will put oil back in the machine gripped by the drop in GDP, in order to try to pass, before the end of the year, the average payment delay below the ten-day mark. There is an urgent need to drive a steady pace and to encourage a true culture of diligence in our commercial relations. The digitisation and dematerialisation of invoices are an essential part of this process,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u47	It didn't improve anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u48	... just like the creation of a payment rating agency. I will conclude by stressing the inescapable role of public authorities. It goes without saying that the latter must show the most rigorous example in this respect. Efforts in this direction are visible and are already producing their effects; the state must and can become the locomotive that drives the entire economy to adopt the reflex of payment of invoices on time. The months ahead will be characterised, thanks to the recovery plan, by large payments to enterprises, through aid, subsidies and calls for projects; It is necessary to endorse the speed of these measures and thus give a concrete dimension to a change of mentality.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u49	Mr Jean-Pierre Vigier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u50	Even before the start of the crisis, France was facing increasing payment delays. While the average national proportion of companies exposed to late payment reached 10.9% in 2019, more and more companies are facing this reality. Small and medium-sized enterprises, as has been said, are particularly affected, even though they are the most fragile.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u51	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u52	As you know, this has a severe impact on their cash flow, leading some to the cessation of payment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u53	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u54	They're toasting!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u55	However, small and medium-sized enterprises are the economic lungs of our country: they employ 6.3 million French and produce 43% of the value added. We must therefore strongly support them. However, the current health crisis only exacerbates the phenomenon of late payment by SMEs, which, as has been said, amounts to an average of 18.6 days, i.e. payments taking place 48 days after the benefit. This delay has the effect of amputating the cash flow of our companies by EUR 19 billion! In some sectors, customers who pay out-of-time are themselves in great difficulty because of the temporary cessation of their activity, ordered by the State, as is unfortunately the case with restaurants and bars, or because of a significant decrease in activity, such as for wholesalers of beverages or hotels. I would like to draw your attention to another fact: we must note, by exchanging with the companies in our territories, that the State must also do everything possible to settle its own deadlines within the time limits set, which is not always the case.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u56	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u57	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u58	The governments have certainly created the EMP, but it only solves the problem for a limited period of time: while it is true that companies have avoided the cessation of payment in 2020 thanks to the various aids, the latter cannot last forever, as you know very well, Mr Secretary of State. In this context, payment deadlines could become even worse if no sustainable State action is taken. The Government must therefore respond. Two options can be considered. First of all, I say loud and clear, it seems imperative to cancel for 2020 all social and tax charges on SMEs and SMEs. Such a measure would free up part of their cash flow, valuable to overcome the crisis and the decline in activity. I would particularly like to draw your attention to the second solution. Banks and insurance can be important allies in this crisis, acting as a bridge between the credit company and the debtor company. They could thus support companies in difficulty, thanks to the factoring mechanism, a flexible tool at the service of companies, as you know: factoring is to have invoices paid immediately pending payment by a factorer, provided that the debtor has a good rating with the company's credit insurances, and unfortunately at a cost. Mr Secretary of State, this technique should be developed. The State could act in practice by relaxing the criteria for the listing of enterprises, particularly for small enterprises, or by acting on the rate of commissions. The State could take charge of some of the rates, in order to make this mechanism accessible to more economic actors in our territories. In this way, the operators would guarantee the advance while ensuring the recovery of the sums advanced to the debtor companies. Of course, the sustainability of this second solution requires the agreement of factoring bodies. In any event, 2021 will be crucial for the entire French economic fabric.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u59	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u60	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Every week, when we go to business in our territories, we see the extreme fragility of certain economic actors, which are indispensable to the development and attractiveness of our country. We can't let them down. We therefore need to continue to support our businesses very strongly and to help them get out of the crisis. To this end, the State must continuously adapt the aid schemes and propose proactive concrete measures.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u61	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u62	The Secretary of State for Digital Transition and Electronic Communications had the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u63	Late payments weaken our businesses, primarily the smallest, the most vulnerable and the most fragile of them. Indeed, they disaggregate the cash flow of TPE-SMEs, forcing them to resort to short-term financing from their banks. These delays can, in the most serious cases, lead to viable business failures. Finally, they involve a risk of contagion of cash flow difficulties between companies: when they are not financially able to bear the delays of their customers, they are tempted to report them to their suppliers, According to the figures of the latest report of the Monitoring Centre on payment deadlines, in the absence of delays, SMEs would benefit from an additional EUR 19 billion in cash, and the ETIs of 7 billion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u64	That's not a good argument!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u65	For all these reasons, these delays are simply unacceptable, especially when they are the result of deliberate practices, but also when they are linked to a manifest lack of care given to paying partners over time. The State is therefore mobilised to ensure compliance with payment deadlines, as a payer, as well as by carrying out checks and providing appropriate support. Several parliamentarians referred to the state's delays. However, he assumed his responsibilities as a payer. In this case, I confirm my agreement with Mr Bernalicis's comments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u66	That's a scoop!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u67	I confirm this: we see an unexpected convergence of our remarks in this debate...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u68	Our agreement is based on the facts!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u69	Indeed, if we look at the figures in detail, contrary to certain ideas received that have a hard life, we can see that, over the past ten years, the payment deadlines of the state services have improved considerably: from 2011 to 2019 – which covers several majorities – at the national level, the overall payment period for public order has fallen from 45 to 19 days; and, according to the latest report of the Pay Time Observatory, they improved by two more days between 2018 and 2019. This dynamic is the result of a real awareness and improvement of the procedures for processing invoices, in particular through digitisation. Nevertheless, these figures hide large disparities within the public sector – again, I refer you to Mr Bernalicis' speech – and there are still significant delays in some communities, particularly large ones. This situation is not acceptable and calls for a correction because the public authority must be blameless. Since the adoption of the 2008 Economic Modernization Act, several reforms have been undertaken to ensure tighter monitoring of payment deadlines and to combat delays. Controls by the Directorate-General for Competition, Consumer Affairs and Fraud Prevention are always better targeted. Sanctions have been strengthened and can now exceed EUR 1 million in the most serious cases. They are also systematically published. Here are more figures: in 2019, the DGCCRF controlled more than 1500 establishments; At the end of the checks, 271 administrative fine procedures, amounting to a total of EUR 34 million, were launched; Since 2014, 1186 administrative fines, amounting to a total of €65 million, have been imposed. Beyond DGCCRF's controls, the Business Ombudsman provides support to businesses in finding amicable solutions to disputes, in particular those relating to payment deadlines. Its action helps to restore and facilitate dialogue between companies. The two parties present during the mediation shall make a mutual legal commitment, on such terms and conditions as they may agree. As a result of this joint agreement, the terms of which are constructed by both parties, the agreement is respected in almost all cases. More than 60 requests for mediation on these issues are submitted to the business mediator each month. Clearly, the health crisis, which has become economic, has had a significant cyclical impact on payment deadlines, for three reasons, the contribution of which has been more or less equivalent: firstly, the disruption of the payment chain, due to confinement and telework, especially last spring, since the companies were not ready to dematerialise these procedures and deal with them remotely; Secondly, the financial difficulties of certain companies which simply could not pay their bills; thirdly, the deliberate practices of some companies wishing to anticipate and preserve their cash flow. In order to avoid a deterioration in payment deadlines, we have taken strong measures since the first days of the crisis. Of course, the priority has been to provide financial assistance to companies directly affected by the crisis, which has helped to avoid overpayment delays. These include measures to relieve the cash flow of businesses. We first introduced state-guaranteed loans: more than EUR 130 billion of loans were contracted by the affected companies. We have set up a Solidarity Fund for companies in the most affected sectors: nearly EUR 12 billion have been paid to them. Finally, we have created mechanisms for partial activity, exemption and carry forward of charges. On the issue of payment deadlines in particular, we have set up a crisis committee, chaired by the business and credit ombudsmen. Since March of this year, this committee has regularly brought together professional organizations, consular chambers and the DGCCRF to detect and deal with weak signals. This crisis committee has been able to trace the practices of some 40 large companies or ETIs that have deliberately slowed down payment deadlines. After the intervention of the business mediator, the practices normalized. At the same time, the Crisis Committee has valued the action of sixteen large companies and ETIs, which have decided, on the contrary, to speed up payments in order to preserve the cash flow of their suppliers. Fortunately, for several months, the committee has not received any more reports. Thus, the various measures taken by the Government have helped to contain the impact on payment deadlines and to avoid too sharp a deterioration. While the situation was very tense in the second quarter, it has become more or less normal in recent months. Indeed, after a tenfold increase in requests for mediation in the second quarter, the figures for the fourth quarter show a return to normal. With regard to late payments, the figures seem to follow the same trend: the situation tends to improve. However, in recent months, the average delay has increased by two days compared to the pre-crisis period, erasing the gains achieved in recent years. These delays have increased in particular in the sectors most affected by the measures taken to limit the circulation of the virus. Public payment deadlines do not seem to have increased as a result of the crisis. Indeed, the number of cases reported to the Business Ombudsman for payment problems by public bodies has not changed in absolute terms in recent months compared to last year. These data are still to be consolidated, in particular in the next report of the Monitoring Centre for Payment Timelines, which will be published next March. Beyond the actions of the State, part of the solution remains in the hands of companies, especially the larger ones. We must appeal to everyone to be responsible, especially for the responsibility of the major providers of orders. Of course, there is no question that the crisis will become an excuse to delay payments and lead to delays that could be fatal for our SMEs. We are vigilant about this type of practice. We also asked the DGCCRF to continue its controls and to ensure that there was no unacceptable behaviour of voluntary retention of payments during the crisis. In the coming months, large companies and ITEs that have benefited from an EMP will be targeted as part of the monitoring of payment deadlines, in order to verify that the aid provided by the State has been used to pay suppliers. When the crisis is over, it is crucial that we can quickly recover the level of late payments observed in 2019, about 11 days. But, beyond that, we must resume a dynamic of reducing these late payments, to move, by 2021, within ten days. In the Netherlands, I would point out that the average delay is four days; in Germany, seven days. Although France is now one of the good European pupils in this field, delays in payment are not inevitable. Respect for payment deadlines must become a true culture and "percolation" within the organizations themselves. The 2015 policy on the publication of the names of companies subject to payment deadlines was aimed at raising awareness of this issue among business leaders. This awareness, this culture of payment over time, must now permeate all the layers of the payment chain. The dematerialization of the processing of invoices will be a complementary lever to achieve a reduction in delays. I will now take the time to answer a few questions that have been asked to me. With regard to households, Mr. Wulfranc,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u70	Excellent Mr. Wulfranc!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u71	... without denying the importance of over-indebtedness during the crisis, I refer you to a possible future discussion, because today's debate is about companies. Mr Bernalicis, I confirm that we have not planned to cancel the debt, neither the debt held by the ECB nor the private debt. I have already taken part in a debate on this subject in this House a few months ago. It is also a question that divides economists, beyond political sensitivities.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u72	There are fewer and fewer Liberals, Secretary of State!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u73	Indeed, some economists traditionally on the far left oppose debt cancellation, while more liberal economists support it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u74	I don't know them, these...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u75	The debate transcends political parties. In any event, I suggest that we do not reinvigorate it at this moment, and I repeat that the Government does not have the intention of cancelling neither the private debt nor the public debt. Mrs Pires Beaune, it must be borne in mind that any change in the order of priority creditors in collective proceedings would have very important consequences for the financing of the economy, inter-firm relations and the real economy. The Government does not intend to change this order. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Bruno Le Maire, Alain Griset and I are particularly attentive to the issue of payment deadlines and expect a start from companies. The evolution of payment deadlines will be closely monitored. If this is not enough, we do not exclude putting in place more stringent tools in the future, after the crisis has ended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u76	We come to the questions. I would remind you that questions and answers are limited to two minutes and there is no right of reply. Mr David Corceiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u77	Mr Secretary of State, I am asking you this question on behalf of my colleague Philippe Bolo, appointed rapporteur of the Committee on Economic Affairs for the hearing of Mrs Laure de La Raudière, which is currently taking place. The current crisis is greatly increasing the vulnerability of businesses. Therefore, we must be all the more vigilant about extending payment periods. Since the beginning of the legislature, we have on several occasions adopted provisions to combat this drift. This was particularly the case with the PACTE law: under the leadership of President Mignola, we voted for an adjustment of the reverse factoring. While the extension of payment deadlines mainly concerns a few large public groups, champion of the out-of-law savings of making money on the backs of SMEs, the state is also affected by this scourge. The responsibility of the State is particularly visible in the MaPrimeRenov' system, which consists of several stages: preparation of the file; estimate; completion of the work; issue an invoice; payment of the invoice after payment is requested by the individual; Finally, the company's settlement. Such a sequence of steps does not in any way guarantee that the company obtains a prompt payment after the work. That is why my colleague Philippe Bolo wishes to ask you about the consistency of public aid, Mr Secretary of State. How does the State verify that the procedures for granting aid do not contribute to the extension of payment periods? In addition, within the framework of the PACTE Act, the Government has defended the principle of a public database accessible to enterprises, allowing each of them to know, before undertaking to do so, the time limit for payment by the public service provider. Unfortunately, this base has never been created in this form. Thus, how does the Government intend to implement laws and regulations aimed at reducing payment delays?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u78	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u79	As you said, Mr Corceiro, the PACTE Act contains several provisions that improve payment deadlines, both on reverse factoring and on the transparency of public payment deadlines. We are working to give concrete translation to these provisions, but, you will agree, 2020 has been a bit special and has been able to slow down some projects, notably the database of the payment deadlines of the local authorities. The services of the business mediator are mobilised to make progress in reverse factoring and to do pedagogy about this solution, which can prove to be win-win for companies. Please be aware that the Pre-Supplement Payment Implementation Committee met on 22 December and adopted an ambitious work plan. Your question about the payment of MaPrimeRénov' relates not to the payment period but, more generally, to the speed with which aid is granted. The State always ensures the effectiveness of the mechanisms it introduces, and a balance must always be struck between targeting and simplicity, between control to avoid fraud and speed of execution. Moreover, the aid schemes that we put in place during the health crisis are rather models of simplicity and speed. It should be noted that the MaPrimeRenov' scheme allows households to receive aid more quickly as it replaces a tax credit. While the system has experienced delays, due in particular to the health crisis, it will indeed facilitate, shorten and simplify procedures. For a more in-depth discussion on this issue, I invite you to contact the Ministry responsible for housing, which will publish in the coming weeks a review of the operation of the scheme for the year 2020.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u80	Mr Alain David has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u81	A year ago, we watched unbelievably the situation in Wuhan, supposedly far away. Today, alas, the health crisis is still close to us and is still worrying. In addition to these concerns for the health of our citizens, the health of our economy in general and that of a large number of companies in particular are of concern. Among the economic and social consequences which, unfortunately, are likely to increase in the coming months, the issue of payment deadlines is becoming acute, as several speakers have pointed out. While the Bank of France's payment deadlines observatory noted in its latest annual reports an improvement in the situation, both for companies and for public bodies, the covid-19 will, alas, cause devastation in this area too. However, from a stimulus plan to a collective budget, large sums have been injected into the economy in order to limit the effects of the crisis. It must be noted that this is not enough and that many companies in our territories face extreme difficulties. It therefore seems urgent to find solutions to prevent possible bankruptcies from spreading and creating a real tsunami of balance sheet deposits, when the USSRAF, the tax administration and the banks will remember to the good memory of the companies. To this end, the Socialist and Related Group has on several occasions proposed, in particular during the examination of the PACTE bill, to reconsider the principle of privileged creditors, to which the State and social bodies in particular benefit. In the situation of historical crisis that we are going through, Mr Secretary of State, could we not imagine a temporary experiment consisting of putting this principle in parentheses, so that we avoid a galloping spread of defaults of payment?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u82	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u83	You refer to a fear, shared by all the public authorities, that of business failures due to the crisis. The truth dictates that for the time being, and after indicators have shown that there has been a problem during the first confinement, especially with respect to payment deadlines, things seem – I say "appear" – to be pretty much under control. To know exactly the macroeconomic situation, it is necessary to await the publication in March of the report of the Monitoring Centre on payment deadlines. But the indicators we have suggest that, given the massive state intervention in the economy, with guaranteed loans, the Solidarity Fund or partial unemployment, things are, for the moment, rather under control. This is reflected very concretely in the business failure figures we have for 2020: they remain very limited in relation to what we might expect. Of course, what is likely to be sensitive and which will require very fine management is, in essence, the gradual disengagement of the State from the economy as the health crisis eases and activity resumes. Be assured that Bruno Le Maire, Alain Griset or Agnès Pannier-Runacher pay very close attention to this question, in view of the start of the repayments of loans guaranteed by the State, which will bring us out of a form of general anaesthesia of the economy by the State, mentioned by some parliamentarians. With this in mind, we have not so far planned to change the order of preferred creditors or to degrade the rank of the State. Such a measure would have a considerable impact. However, we will remain attentive to the collective and individual situation of companies in order to ensure that the exit from the crisis takes place as best as possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u84	Mr M'jid El Guerrab has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u85	My question concerns the attitude of public purchasers towards their suppliers or suppliers, particularly in the context of public procurement. As my colleagues have rightly said before me, late payment is a scourge that can put many companies in trouble. In this regard, we know that small businesses are the most fragile, especially in this degraded economic environment where cash levels can melt very quickly. Admittedly, a panel of sanctions exists to deter bad payers from accumulating late payments at the expense of their suppliers. The application of these administrative sanctions and their publication are in the right direction. The health and economic crisis we are experiencing puts many companies in difficulty. I would like to commend the reactivity of the Government, which, from the very beginning of the first confinement, established a crisis committee on the deterioration of payment deadlines. As my colleague Vincent Ledoux pointed out in his speech, there are avenues for reflection to improve the situation, such as the creation of a credit rating agency for payment deadlines. It is also essential that public actors – local authorities, the State, public institutions – set an example. I am thinking in particular of the public works sector, where payment delays are greater than elsewhere. Mr Secretary of State, are you also considering concrete measures to reduce delays in the payment of public purchasers that are often, rightly or wrongly, presented as bad payers? More generally, do you have any data on late payment in public procurement?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u86	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u87	We mentioned it a few minutes ago, contrary to the perception that one might sometimes have, the payment deadlines of the public sphere are generally good – at least they have been improving very clearly for several years; This is what the indicators tell us. I recall the figures: with regard to the public order, the overall payment deadline for state services – I am talking about the state, not the local authorities – went from forty-five to nineteen days between 2011 and 2019. Before the crisis arose, it had even fallen by two days in two years. As I said, since the beginning of the crisis, the payment deadlines for public buyers do not appear to have been extended overall. Indeed, the number of cases referred to the business ombudsman for problems of payment by public bodies remains stable. The report of the payment deadlines observatory, which will be published next March, will confirm this estimate with clear and detailed figures. I have also said that this improvement is the result of an awareness by the State of the importance of being exemplary in this area, given the importance of payment deadlines in the economy. More concretely, this progress is due to the improvement of the payment process carried out by the State, including the dematerialisation of invoicing and the reorganization of the payment chain. However, behind these figures there are still large disparities and significant delays are still observed in some communities, particularly those of very large size, and in some of the hospital sector. Public bodies as a whole should make further progress, as they must be irreproachable. This will include greater transparency on their payment deadlines. In this regard, you voted, Mr. MP, under the PACTE Act – an action plan for business growth and transformation – in favour of an open-data publication of community payment deadlines. In view of the crisis of coronavirus, there has been a delay in the implementation of this provision, but I confirm that in the coming months the Government intends to make transparency on the payment deadlines of the various public bodies. It is essential for us all to progress together. Some opinion polls, which have been mentioned, indicate that some companies are reluctant to respond to public tenders for fear of too long payment deadlines. This shows that we still have both progress and pedagogy to do. Clearly, making this effort is even more essential in the context of the recovery plan.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u88	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u89	Since the introduction of the second confinement, aid schemes have been announced to support the cash flow of companies, including the extension of the Solidarity Fund, which now compensates 20% of their turnover losses. The upsurge of the Solidarity Fund has delayed, even though our small businesses had only limited cash to hold. Once formalised, these measures should be implemented quickly and the aid should reach companies in a very short period of time. Indeed, aid decided in November 2020 but paid in January 2021 would only be of limited use, since many companies could not hold up until then. Yet this is what happens to many TPEs – very small businesses. I have the case of a restorer from my constituency who just got, a few days ago, aid from the Solidarity Fund for the month of November. In the face of such delays, he had written to the DGFIP – Directorate General of Public Finance – of Clermont-Ferrand, and here is the incomplete answer: "The processing of certain requests is currently affected by a dysfunction identified at the national level. Unfortunately, this concerns very many requests like yours. I very much appreciate your legitimate impatience, but the service has no way of unlocking your situation in the immediate future and invites you to wait. »
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u90	There!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u91	You will understand, Mr. Secretary of State, that it is not an impatience or a whim that it is, but rather the survival of this restaurant, as well as of all its suppliers, that it must pay. It's about avoiding cascading bankruptcies. It would appear, therefore, that the Government has a tendency to do things slowly, which applies to a number of subjects. So my question is simple: what measures are you planning to reduce the payment deadlines for the many essential aids that have been promised, but which are so difficult to achieve?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u92	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u93	In order to answer you as clearly as possible, I think we agree on one point: the response of DGFIP de Clermont-Ferrand to this restorer is not acceptable. It is not, because the effectiveness of the mechanisms decided by the State is not based on their announcement, but, as you said, on their effective application, on the disbursement of the sums and the fact that they arrive on the account of the companies in need. This is what guided the whole policy led by the Government during the crisis and, with a few exceptions, I think I can say that, as a general rule, there was a great deal of speed in the payment of aid, both by the Bercy services and by the USSRAFs – unions for the collection of social security contributions and family allowances. My impression, and that is what is going on in quantitative terms, is that we have been very quick to pay partial unemployment benefits or to disburse the Solidarity Fund. The French administration as a whole has been very quick to respond to the crisis. Nevertheless, there may be some local problems. I take note of what you're telling us. I will communicate it to Olivier Dussopt and Bruno Le Maire. I invite you to pass on these elements to us so that we can correct things if they can be corrected. However, I believe that in managing the crisis, the French administration has been very effective in disbursing aid – I have examples from other European countries to attest to this. There may be problems in other areas, but I think we agree that if public speaking is to maintain its credibility, what has been decided must be put into practice and, therefore, in this case, disbursements must be made as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u94	Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u95	The situation of small and medium-sized enterprises is very fragile overseas. At La Réunion, they account for more than 95 per cent of the economic fabric. This fragility does not date back to the past, but has worsened with the health crisis. As everyone knows, ultramarine entrepreneurs don't sleep on mattresses. Financial situations are tense and, after paying employees' salaries and paying debts, they often have only a misery left. Account management must be rigorous. Delays in payment must be anticipated and anticipated. Time limits are not always respected, whether in private or in the public. Add to this the rigidity of banks and financial institutions and you get the cocktail of balance sheet deposit and bankruptcies, with their lot of unemployment. No, banks do not play the game, because even when they present the purchase orders obtained from public procurement, these institutions do not tolerate any delay and apply severe measures: blocking of accounts, agios, seizure of equipment, etc. The know-how and commitment of these entrepreneurs are no longer to be demonstrated. We must therefore accompany them. It's a matter of life or death for them! [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] In this health context, where finances are at the lowest, should the State not intervene firmly with banks? Would a specific model of inverted factoring in DROMs – overseas departments and regions – not be a way of thinking? Why not set up a monitoring unit for local authorities in order to speed up the payment process? Why not release specific funds from the CDC – Caisse des dépôts et consignations – in order to finance investment projects, but also funds that could be allocated to companies benefiting from markets, with a zero-rate repayment, knowing that I regret that you refuse to cancel the private debt?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u96	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u97	It is clear that the issue of amortisation of the crisis and payment deadlines is important, both in Hexagon and overseas, given the specific situation of some ultramarine companies whose cash levels may be much more tense. It seems to me that, for the moment, the figures show that the intervention of the State, through guaranteed loans or the Solidarity Fund, has helped to amortise the crisis. I am not saying that there are not a few problems here or there, that some overseas territories do not encounter difficulties which require special treatment, but, for having heard it on several occasions in the Council of Ministers, know that the Minister for Overseas Affairs, Sébastien Lecornu, is mobilised on the issues specific to the overseas territories. However, I do not believe, and I have had the opportunity to tell your colleague Ugo Bernalicis, that the cancellation of the debt is a good thing,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u98	Why?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u99	... if only because a unilateral cancellation of private debt, even before talking about the public debt owed to the ECB – the European Central Bank – would have a massive impact on business relations and bank credit, which I do not think is appropriate in the current period. With regard to the various options that you are proposing, which I do not admit to you being a real specialist, I suggest that you meet with the deputy minister Olivier Dussopt or with Minister Sébastien Lecornu, in such a way that in the event of a problem of payment deadlines specific to certain overseas territories, we can find the corresponding solutions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u100	Mr Paul Molac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u101	Sixteen euros: this is, according to several newspapers, the increase in the French electricity bill envisaged by the Commission de régulation de l'énergie. This amount is equivalent to an increase of 1.73% per year, while professionals could see their bills increase by 3.02%. This increase is in addition to two others already announced: that of the transport tax from this summer onwards and that of the market prices of electricity production capacity. In total, it is therefore almost 50 additional euros on average that will come to inflate the French electricity bills in 2021. Several factors explain this increase planned for February 1st, in particular the evolution of marketing costs due to the effects of the health crisis linked to covid-19. For example, many companies have seen their cash flow dry in recent months until the cessation of payment and the final closure. As a result, late payments have increased significantly in recent months, particularly affecting SMEs, which are more fragile than large groups. As a result, we see an explosion in the number of electricity bills outstanding last year due to the crisis, which affects almost 17% of professional customers. This is proof that the lengthening of payment deadlines first affects professionals, but also, in some cases, directly affects the French. Our group points out that late payments are often not the result of a deliberate will on the part of the company. Incentives must therefore be put in place. What measures does the Government intend to take to that end? In addition, several financing tools have been created to enable companies to bail out their cash flow through credit instead of imposing payment delays on their suppliers or subcontractors. In view of the current crisis, this method cannot be part of a long-term approach: there is a risk that the number of "zombies" will explode. How did the Government intend to remedy that situation?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u102	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u103	There are several elements to your question. To be honest – but perhaps the problem needs to be deepened – I am not sure how the inter-company payment deadlines relate to the failure to settle electricity bills to EDF or other suppliers. The increase in these unpaid payments seems to me to be a symptom of a more general economic crisis, of the difficulties our companies have encountered and of possible administrative closures. To attribute them to the mere extension of inter-firm payment deadlines seems to me to be at least reducing. You're talking about an important topic: zombie companies. This pretty name refers to companies that, having contracted a debt, pay interest on it without being able to repay capital and, unable to grow, enter into a long situation of over-indebtedness, which happens fairly regularly during exits from crisis. We will monitor this phenomenon very precisely when the early maturity of state-guaranteed loans is paid – that is when the problem may arise – or when the USSRAFs or social bodies start collecting certain contributions, which were not collected during the crisis. I would like to assure you that the services of Olivier Dussopt, Agnes Pannier-Runacher and Alain Griset – in addition to those of Bruno Le Maire – are mobilized on this problem, which is still before us.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u104	Mr Christophe Naegelen has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u105	While in France, one in four companies is bankrupt due to lack of timely payment, the Minister of Economy has expressed his support for the creation of a rating to identify the wrong payers. According to the Government, such a system would make it possible to inform SMEs, subcontractors and suppliers about companies that voluntarily or voluntarily engage in late payment. The reality is that once again, we wanted to make a general law that applies to everyone without distinction. The 2008 Economic Modernization Act reduced payment deadlines to 30 days. This is very good for small producers who were confronted with the unfair and abusive practices of large areas and distribution giants. However, this does not make it possible to distinguish between large enterprises and small and medium-sized enterprises which face cash flow difficulties. The LME also provided for the possibility of setting longer deadlines by interprofessional agreement. For example, several professional sectors have concluded successive derogations agreements. This is not enough, however, for small traders and artisans, who need more time. Regulation should therefore be adjusted, taking better account, for example, of turnover or payroll. Do you intend to leave more room for small traders to pay their suppliers? Will you refine the rules on payment deadlines? As I said earlier, if you really wanted to protect businesses, you would have had to agree to give suppliers a privileged status in the hierarchy of creditors to repay in the event of a judicial liquidation. Companies could have gone back in the order of payment and become less vulnerable in the event of their customers defaulting. What are your intentions in this regard?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u106	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u107	On the two questions you ask, we share your priorities: when you reduce payment deadlines, you first give credit or cash back to TPEs and SMEs. But in this case, I am not sure that the two solutions you propose are the right ones. Let's imagine that payment times for small businesses are reported to be longer than for large ones: small businesses would no longer trust each other. A small business would in fact have an interest in purchasing from a large business that it knows will be paid on time. The measurement would therefore result in on-board effects. I would add that, in my view, your proposal cannot work because, legally, it could not only apply from small to large businesses. I am not sure, but it seems to me that, if one can possibly make a difference in terms of payment times depending on the size of the companies, one cannot foresee distinctions according to the customer. As for changing the order of creditors, the measure cannot be applied retroactively. When a claim is entered into,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u108	Deficiencies in payment are getting worse!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u109	...it is done according to a situation, which cannot be changed a posteriori. In addition, if banks begin to degrade to the list of creditors, credit is involved. In another life, I had the opportunity to work on companies in difficulty. It is an extremely sensitive subject, whose collateral effects are important on the financing of the economy and relations between companies. The times of crisis are the worst time to deal with it: it is not in such a context that we can change elements by creating uncertainty, which would deprive some actors of intervention in the economy. This does not prevent the question from being asked more comprehensively.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u110	Mrs Mireille Clapot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u111	I, too, will tell you about the worst case scenario, about the bills that take more and more time to be settled, about the cash flow that gradually dries up until the cessation of payment, or even the final closure. This black scenario, many companies rightly fear it at the moment, because of the crisis of the covid-19, but the wave of bankruptcies announced this autumn remains for the time being. According to the court clerks of the French commercial courts, between September and November 2020 approximately 7,500 collective proceedings were opened, a decrease of 37% compared to the same period in 2019. Over the past 12 months, the number of failures has fallen by a third in our country. The disaster is therefore avoided for the time being. The companies were supported by the State. They are very grateful and tell us. The USSRAF no longer assigns any business to the court. However, public aid will have an end. State-guaranteed loans will have to be repaid. Companies therefore fear an explosion of failures in 2022. For the economists of Euler Hermes, the decisive moment could take place in the second quarter of 2021, when French companies will pay production taxes and quarterly instalments of other taxes. The extension of the inter-firm payment deadlines referred to here can be a weak signal that a wave of defaults has been reported. CCIs – CCI chambers of commerce and industry – are very much in demand at the moment for problems of payment of invoices. This motive, which represented 25 per cent of pre-crisis referrals, now stands at around 50 per cent. You responded in part, highlighting the Government's particular attention to payment deadlines, both in terms of monitoring and in terms of action. Can you go further by giving us information on your indicators by sectors and geographical sectors, and on your more specific actions?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u112	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u113	As you said, if, for the moment, the crisis has not had a massive impact on payment deadlines, we have already lost the gain of recent years, namely two days of payment deadlines in general. The Monitoring Centre for Payment Timelines provides data on a regionalised and sector-specific basis. This index allows us to monitor the reality of payment deadlines in our country and in our economy. We therefore look forward to the publication of his report, which is due to take place in March, in order to adjust what needs to be done. As part of its negotiations with various sectors, the Deputy Minister Agnès Pannier-Runacher has planned for each sector special discussion rooms between companies so that even before we ask the business mediator, who deals with very problematic cases, we can open a discussion on payment deadlines. Be assured that once we have indicators, especially regionalised ones, we will make them public – which is in line with your concern to territorialize the data. Given the importance of payment deadlines in our economy, we monitor the risk of business failures such as milk on fire, as well as actual payment times, especially from large to small companies. If necessary, we will not hesitate to change things.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u114	Mrs Nicole Trisse has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u115	The firm ARC published Tuesday, October 20, 2020 the tenth edition of its barometer, produced by the FIFG, on the management of the crisis of the covid-19, the cash flow and the financing of companies, as well as the expectations of the executives regarding the reduction of late payments. According to this barometer, the year 2020 marks the accession of the majority of companies to the Government's support plan, but there has been a very strong increase in payment times for and by small and medium-sized enterprises. The problem is not new. By March 2020, the department had already been alerted to this type of action by some large companies. Unfortunately, the crisis of the coronavirus caused a very large increase, if not an explosion, in payment deadlines. SMEs are more affected by the phenomenon. While many companies have been able to benefit from State-guaranteed loans, delays in obtaining such loans have increased payment times. In addition, the health crisis has increased the fear of bankruptcy and further pushed businesses, especially SMEs, to postpone payments in order to maintain cash flow. To counter this trend, solutions were mentioned, including the scoring of payment deadlines, which would allow for greater transparency and the identification of bad payers. This rating system echoes the policy of name and shame, already developed by the State, which consists of posting on the DGCCR website companies that have been fined for not paying their invoices on time. The solution does not seem appropriate to the current crisis context, nor to the post-crisis situation we will face in the months and years to come. Can you tell us what concrete steps you are planning to take to combat longer payment periods in the context of the economic crisis we are going through, without, however, stigmatising companies on a long-term basis?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u116	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u117	You're talking about some of the solutions that are on the table. Notwithstanding what you said, I think that transparency can be very useful in terms of payment deadlines: it creates pressure on the wrong payer and makes it possible to distinguish good and bad payers among businesses and communities. This is why the DGCCRF is working to publish the sanctions and the names of the sanctioned companies. Several of you mentioned the use of a credit rating agency. The track, far from being trivial, is interesting. I would point out that the FRCCB takes a long time to establish that a company pays badly.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u118	We'd need a private agency!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u119	The procedure is complicated, especially when it comes to a large company, because a large number of invoices have to be taken into account and entered into various information systems. Bruno Le Maire is ready to work on the subject, which requires further instruction. However, we believe that there is a problem of transparency on the payment of large territorial authorities – as far as the state is concerned, it is already known. That is why you voted in the PACTE law on the transparency of payment deadlines for local and regional authorities, which will be effective in the coming months. As regards payment deadlines in general, in my reply to Mrs Clapot, I pointed out that the figures available – the number of referrals to the business ombudsman, in particular – do not indicate too much slippage at this stage. The solution is therefore that of the State-guaranteed loan, in order to relieve the cash flow of enterprises; However, we do not exclude taking further action if we find a significant number of slippages at the time of the publication of the payment deadline observatory's report.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u120	Mrs Josiane Corneloup has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u121	After consulting with many companies in my constituency, it turns out that they do not necessarily know an extension of payment deadlines. On the contrary, the EMP has contributed to improved cash flow and payment times are met. On the other hand, they point out to me concerns about the repayment of the EMP, which it seems essential to defer since the effects of the crisis will be felt more in 2021-2022, and the repayment of State-guaranteed credit insurance, whose premiums have increased considerably while the guaranteed amounts have stagnated. Banks and insurance should be partners in this crisis, I believe. The situation is different for businesses, especially for the many food businesses that have remained open, whose turnover has fallen significantly – in the order of one third or even 40% – and which are not eligible for any aid, the latter being subject to a minimum loss of 50% of turnover. These traders, who must continue to pay for their current expenses, loans and rent, are in great difficulty. It is essential to make exemptions or reductions in charges which could alleviate the very tight cash flow of businesses which, in certain departments such as mine, the Saône-et-Loire, must also deal with a curfew fixed at 18 hours. Public order is regularly mentioned. Several leaders of public works groups in my constituency report empty order books due to a marked deterioration in the public order, and the volume of tenders remains far below what it was in 2019. Public works companies are already putting an end to temporary contracts, and the number of hours worked by their employees is falling sharply; For the time being, permanent staff are still stable, but if public order-makers, in this case local and regional authorities, do not mobilize to start the start-up of activity, the next year may be particularly difficult and destructive of jobs in the sector. However, the municipalities, intercommunalities and departments have suffered significant revenue cuts – notably a decrease in the DGF, the overall operating allocation – while their expenditure was increased by the health crisis. Their budget severely reduces them to forced attemptism. What measures do you intend to take to reassure local and regional authorities and encourage them to play their essential role as economic agents?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u122	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u123	Mrs Corneloup, the situations you mentioned at the beginning of your speech confirm what we were saying, namely that there was no major and global slippage at this stage concerning payment deadlines. We will see what is happening in the statistics that will be published next March. You mention the case of some food shops that have remained open and have experienced a decline in attendance. Unless I am mistaken, they may benefit from the partial unemployment scheme in the event of a significant drop in their turnover, which is a form of State aid, or at least from the social security agencies. In any event, I assure you that Bruno Le Maire and all Bercy's ministers ensure that the devices are adjusted as closely as possible to the needs of each of the sectors. The number of beneficiaries of the Solidarity Fund has thus been extended on several occasions, and the eligibility conditions for this fund have been reviewed as the health situation has changed. If there was a problem in some sectors, particularly in food trade, we would not hesitate to intervene. It is true that public works fell sharply in the first half of 2020; This is linked to the health crisis, but also – you have to say, since you know the reality of the ground – to the delay in municipal elections and to the consideration of the environmental imperative. Indeed, the exacerbation of environmental sensitivity has led some of the mayors I know to shift their plans. The momentum resumed in the second half of 2020, as indicated by the statistics presented this morning in the Council of Ministers, and rest assured that we remain attentive to the situation of the BTP, alongside the local authorities,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u124	We're wondering where!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u125	...because, as they say in economics: "When the BTP goes, everything goes."
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u126	Mr Rémi Delatte has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u127	We are all convinced that late payments have a detrimental effect on cash flow, profit and loss accounts, and even on the survival of businesses. This reality is not new; It is simply amplified by the current crisis. In ordinary times, 25% of business failures are due to delays or defaults: the amounts lost for 2019 amounted to EUR 56 billion. These defects often occur between professionals, i.e. between companies, and are more the result of negligence than a lack of solvency. In October 2019, together with thirty-two of my colleagues, I introduced a bill that, in the absence of a challenge to an invoice between two professionals, the clerk may give enforceability to the claim in order to allow immediate recovery by departmental officers. This will de facto reduce the payment deadlines, which are currently in the order of four to five months, between the intervention of the judge, the notification by the clerk and the final recovery. Mr Secretary of State, you will grant me that this simplification measure is rather in the air of time. It is a measure of support for economic performance and, basically, a measure of common sense. So my question is simple: are you ready to consider the bill that I want to make available to you?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u128	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u129	I agree with you on the importance of late payments in the economy in general. Even though my figures are different from yours – 19 billion euros, to my knowledge – it is true that the total amount is considerable. You want to change the procedure for the collection of debts between professionals in order to make it easier and faster for companies in difficulty, and I have already answered several questions on the subject, particularly with regard to the order of creditors: it is not for me, for reasons of ministerial scope, to change this procedure on the bench, but I propose to organize an exchange with Éric Dupond-Moretti and Bruno Le Maire to study your proposals.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u130	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u131	After the successive waves of covid -19, it is to a real tsunami of corporate balance sheets that we must prepare. One question arises: how to help companies overcome the accumulated debt wall, for some of them, for months? Much has been said about factoring, whether reversed or not: have you considered tax measures to encourage companies to use it? On the other hand, would it be possible to provide tax incentives – for example, corporate tax relief – for third parties who, instead of redeeming debts, would redeem debts through invoices? They would allow debtors who do not have strong enough kidneys to free themselves from a supplier debt to a financial debt that they can smooth over time without damaging the relationship to their supplier or threatening their business activity. I would add two more suggestions. Firstly, it would be interesting for banks to systematically accept financing in the form of Dailly for orders and public grants, and especially for regional or European grants which often delay arriving – let us recall the three years of waiting for the payment of certain ERDF aid, the European Regional Development Fund. My second suggestion concerns the EMP. Companies are beginning to receive repayment letters for the EMPs they have subscribed to: Is it possible to suggest that banking institutions should provide for an additional 12 months of default that would not generate bank interest in addition to the State guarantee? Indeed, how can companies position themselves over the depreciable life of the EMP in the light of current economic uncertainty? Companies are also concerned that the depreciation of the EMP over a maximum of four years is insufficient: would it be possible to extend its duration to ten years?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u132	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u133	During the review of the PACTE Act, the Government demonstrated its support for the development of factoring, whether reversed or not, with a view to financing the supplier or customer debt of enterprises. As I understand it, the process you are suggesting would be to lower the corporate tax on banks that would take over this factoring. I am not sure that this mechanism is appropriate in the current situation. I would point out that at this stage, even if we follow the situation closely, we do not see any overall slippage on payment deadlines; For this reason, we have not adopted measures relating to payment deadlines in the context of the treatment of the health crisis. This position is valid until the publication of the figures by the payment deadlines observatory. Concerning the second part of your question, which has just escaped me...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u134	The PGEs!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u135	Exactly! You're talking about an adaptation of government-guaranteed loans. The discussion on reimbursement of EMPs has evolved as the health crisis has developed; It's a subject everyone has in mind. Clearly, increasing the amortisation period from four to ten years would have a significant impact on the cost of credit for businesses. At this stage, we believe that the EMPs are proportionate to the needs and have been correctly configured, but we could consider adaptation if the continuation of the crisis made it necessary.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u136	The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u137	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u138	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u139	The next item is the debate on the situation in EHPADs following the two containment periods of 2020. The Conference of Presidents decided to hold this debate in two parts. As a first step, we will hear speakers from the groups and then from the Government. We will then proceed to a sequence of questions and answers. Mrs. Christine Pires Beaune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u140	It was last November that the Socialist and Related Group chose to discuss the situation in the EHPADs as part of this week of control, particularly after the two confinement periods that we have just experienced. Two months later, this subject is unfortunately of fierce acuity. I will visit the twenty-five public or private, territorial or hospital EHPADs in my riding. To date, I have visited five of them, and I think I can draw from them without too much error, Madam Deputy Minister for Self-Government, some general conclusions which I shall therefore deliver to you. But first of all, on behalf of my group as a whole, I would like to greet all the staff – administrative, technical and, of course, caregivers – who have been working very hard for almost a year, under difficult or even extreme conditions, to take care of our elders. I say it sincerely, and I know that you all think it here in the Chamber: they are admirable – and not just during the crisis, but all year round. The crisis of the Covid-19 was an opportunity to reveal these personnel, as if, so far, they had been hidden – like these elderly people that we do not want to see and take care of. It was also an opportunity to highlight the long-standing inadequacies in old-age shelters, which have paid a heavy toll on the crisis. At the beginning of the campaign, last March, the deaths in EHPAD were not even recorded by the authorities. Professor Jérôme Salomon, Director General of Health, took the deaths to the hospital, but did not say anything about EHPADs.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u141	Mr. Solomon, the king of the mask!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u142	It took a month of protests, especially those of the political opposition, for the deaths in EHPAD to be finally recorded and, above all, visible in the eyes of France. On 27 March 2020, together with Valérie Rabault, I signed a forum calling on the Government to be transparent on the number of deaths and people infected with EHPAD. So we could talk about a first invisibility. As of 12 January 2021 – yesterday, therefore – 68802 deaths officially related to the covid had been recorded, of which 21003 in EHPAD. In addition, many hospital deaths actually involve people residing in EHPAD. Whatever the exact number of deceased residents, it is therefore frightening. For families and staff alike, seeing several residents disappear in a few days – sometimes even within a few hours – has been very difficult, and would have required the presence of a sufficient number of psychologists. Unfortunately, this was not the case: as you know, Madam Deputy Minister, there are not enough psychologists, even part-time, in most EHPADs. The psychological distress of the staff of these establishments is palpable, and accepting the disappearance of 10% or even 20% of the residents requires exceptional support. In March, at the beginning of the crisis, staff did not have protective equipment – masks, blouses...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u143	The blouses in garbage bags!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u144	...overblouses, hydro-alcoholic gel, gloves. They had to wait for weeks, whereas in view of the risks involved, the supply of EHPADs should have been given the same priority as that of resuscitation services. In fact, the staff I met felt, once again, left behind. Then, after the masks and the protective material, came the test phase and its lot of incomprehension. In order to select patients, a PCR test should have been performed on all residents. Instead, for lack of tests, everyone had to be confined. In the opinion of staff and families, individual isolation, including that of the residents tested negative, was a mistake: how many died not of covid, but of forced isolation?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u145	And this continues!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u146	As you know, slip syndrome is now well documented. Nine months after the start of a health crisis which unfortunately plays the role of extensions, the state of the staff is worrying. During the first confinement, they came together: despite the stress, linked in particular to the fear of bringing the virus into the establishment and being responsible for the deaths of the residents, they faced and did not count their time. But the second wave was much more difficult to manage. The extra work, especially because of the absence of contaminated caregivers, has been hard on organizations and staff, and beyond physical fatigue, it is moral fatigue that worries: staff are tired and the situation is not really improving. If there is no longer a shortage of blouses and masks, if the tests are carried out quickly, it becomes very difficult to replace sick staff or simply to recruit from vacant posts: Madam Deputy Minister, it will be necessary to deploy a great deal of ingenuity and means to make them attractive. Why restrict the budgets dedicated to training? Many caregivers want to train and become nurses – I have met – but the institutions do not have the necessary budgets. It is in this context that a vaccine finally happens. Allow me to pause for a moment on this subject. I am surprised at the minority rate of personnel saying they want to be vaccinated: how, in Pasteur's country, could such a mistrust of science arise? I sincerely believe that the erratic management of the crisis by the authorities and the Government has caused confusion and doubt, and I sincerely regret it. Today, however, the priority is not the establishment of responsibilities, but the search for solutions: the only hope of ending this crisis is the vaccine, so the priority is vaccination. There are also establishments which have not experienced any cases of covid, either among staff or among residents; They never made a containment, and life went on, if I dare say, almost normally. Only the visits gave rise to a specific protocol. These positive examples should be listed and analysed in order to identify the reasons for their success – if any – and, above all, to draw the consequences for the future. The current EHPAD model has shown its flaws and needs to evolve rapidly. The crisis has brought an unusual wealth of data, which will have to be used to better understand what has happened. However, should we wait until the end of the pandemic for structural reforms to take care of our seniors? I don't believe it. We can now act to improve the situation in our EHPADs, both in scientific and medical terms, as well as in society and ethics. To help us with this, many recent reports are putting forward avenues for improvement – you know them: the Libault report, the El Khomri report, but also parliamentary reports, such as that of MPs Caroline Fiat and Monique Iborra. I am pleased to acknowledge that there have been some significant improvements in recent months: the agreements resulting from the Ségur de la santé have improved the remuneration of public and private EHPAD staff, regardless of their status. This is a very good thing, because the recognition we owe them must also be reflected in their wages. But while a recovery of 183 euros has been received, in two stages, by the staff of the EHPAD of the hospital public service, the territorial agents are still waiting for the decree. This situation gives rise to concerns and a sense of injustice: Madam Deputy Minister, can you reassure us and tell us where this Order is being drafted? In terms of premiums, the directors of establishments I met informed me of a request which I think is entirely legitimate, and which concerns the "Great Age" premium, created by the decree of 30 January 2020, in the amount of 118 euros gross monthly. Some hospital services officers – ASH – act as caregivers, unfortunately without being able to perceive it: are you going, Madam Minister Delegate, to correct this injustice? I repeat, these salary increases are welcome. But the vast majority of caregivers ask for additional co-workers. Indeed, the biggest problem remains the rate of supervision. In October 2019, we presented an emergency plan for hospital and autonomy, in which we proposed, among other things, a 25% increase, by 2024, in the rate of supervision in EHPAD compared to that observed in 2015. This would represent an additional 80000 jobs for the elderly. This recruitment plan must be initiated today, Madam Deputy Minister: it is a matter of survival. Another crucial point I want to address is the building. There are still establishments with only one shower for sixty residents; They are often EHPADs in the hospital sector. Under the Recovery Plan, funds were allocated for the rehabilitation of buildings in the public domain, but the medical and social sector was forgotten: why not take advantage of the European Recovery Plan to launch a major investment plan in the hospital and medico-social sector? Finally, I cannot finish my remarks without referring to the transparency due to families. Since the Act of 28 December 2015 relating to the adaptation of society to ageing, a directory has been created for this purpose, as well as price and maintenance comparisons; But there are no qualitative criteria. Could we think about a simple label system, as in the tourism sector, for example, to enable families to make informed judgements? It would be possible to assess the level of equipment – teleconsultations, oxygen –, the degree of medicalisation – on-call doctor, night nurse –, the accompanying rate, the ratio of supervision, etc. I repeat, we owe it to families. Madam Deputy Minister, are you in favour of this? Since the beginning of 2018 was marked by the EHPAD crisis, President Emmanuel Macron announced on 13 June a future law dedicated to the financing of dependency, in order to respond to the new social vulnerability linked to the old age. He confirmed this announcement on July 9, 2018, in Versailles, in front of the Congress. This text was to be completed by the end of 2019; That year, we saw nothing coming, except an aborted pension reform. In January 2020, after a government seminar, the Prime Minister declared that a bill "large age and autonomy" would be introduced in the summer. On 4 August, the President of the Republic promised to complete the text by the end of the year. The year 2020 has ended: still no great law on autonomy. [[Applause on the SOC, LT and GDR benches]] Madam Minister Delegate, I have had the opportunity to respond to your wishes and to wish you well and well. Among these wishes is one that I renew today: I hope that you will honour President Macron's commitments, that your name will remain attached to a beautiful law, to a law on autonomy that strengthens the mechanisms for ageing well and that gives the admirable personnel who are committed to caring for our elders the material and human means and the recognition they deserve.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u147	Mrs Agnès Firmin Le Bodo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u148	This afternoon we are discussing the situation in EHPAD, almost a year after the outbreak of the pandemic. Above all, I would like to thank the staff of these institutions, as well as the caregivers and services of the state and communities. It is their unwavering commitment on the ground that makes it possible to accompany our elders, to preserve life. I have a special thought for the caregivers at the bedside of our EHPADs, whose residents they have been accompanying every day since the first days of this epidemic of exceptional severity, resulting in a significant excess mortality. Pires Beaune described them as "admirable"; I'll add that they're extraordinary. In the face of these tragedies, the resulting mental and psychological burden, professionalism does not do everything. They surrounded the sick with humanity and benevolence, allowing more than 20,000 of our fellow citizens to leave in dignity. As medicine progresses, death has been increasingly hidden: it occurs discreetly in EHPADs or hospitals. During the year 2020, the media talked a lot about it; It has become visible again, but it is not accepted. This should not lead us to sacrifice the principles that bind us. I stress this point because, here and there, voices have been raised to criticize the choice to protect the most vulnerable, which would have been made to the detriment of society as a whole and of youth in particular. Opposing generations is neither worthy nor responsible. It is not the conception of society, harmonious and inclusive, to which I aspire. I am convinced, on the contrary, that it is in such moments of crisis that our society grows and reveals its humanity. The law of the strongest must not prevail. The protection of some does not require the sacrifice of others. It is true that these long months represented an unprecedented mental burden for most of us, and especially for the elderly. The perverse effects of containment measures on EHPAD residents, slip syndrome due to lack of human heat, have been an important source of concern for families or caregivers. Madam Deputy Minister, you have begun a reflection on ethics, a subject that has asked us more than ever during this period. In order to provide answers to the future bill, which we all hope for, "large age and autonomy", it is necessary to give visibility to anything that has been hidden, consciously or not. I mentioned death, but the aging of the brain, the decline in physical abilities due to the absence of physiotherapists in EHPADs, memory, speech and behaviour disorders are also worrying. We must listen to those who experience them, who live them: the residents themselves, but also all the actors who share their daily lives. Have your first work in the field of ethics ever opened up any avenues, particularly with regard to isolation? On the other hand, the group Action Together argues that it is necessary to learn to live with coronavirus. Our strategy is based on the triptych "test, isolate, treat": test massively to identify more infected people and contact cases; isolating more effectively to break the chains of contagion; to cure and prevent the spread of the epidemic. Along with the vaccination strategy, this is the only way to put an end to the debate on the relevance of widespread containment in order to protect the most vulnerable. We are well aware of the logistical difficulties raised by the organisation of a vaccination campaign of this magnitude. Criticism is easy, as the Government makes every effort to achieve its objectives. However, the acceleration of the vaccination strategy raises questions, in particular with regard to EHPADs: according to information from the field, some of these establishments have been reluctant to be among the first to be vaccinated, for fear of not being ready by the expected date. Do you have any lifts at this point? Can we consider, as some stakeholders in the sector ask, extending vaccination to the entire EHPAD ecosystem, i.e. to all healthcare professionals, regardless of their age, families and external stakeholders? In reviewing the latest Social Security Financing Bill – PLFSS – I had called, on behalf of my group, for a pay-recovery trajectory for staff in sectors related to autonomy that had not been taken into account in the historic July 2020 agreements. This is the spirit of the mission that you entrusted to Michel Laforcade last November concerning the professions of autonomy and the upgrading of all their staff. The challenge is to strengthen the attractiveness of these professions, which are essential to cope with ageing. The crisis of the covid-19 only increases the urgency of reconstructing them. Madam Deputy Minister, do you already have any leads at this stage, from the perspective of Laroque's autonomy and the future "large age and autonomy" bill that we are all waiting for?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u149	Mrs Valérie Six has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u150	Entered France in January 2020, coronavirus spread to both EHPAD and the rest of the population. In accordance with the decisions of the authorities, and with the aim of protecting people who are particularly vulnerable to the virus, these institutions, such as nursing homes, have been closed to the public for long weeks, depriving many of our elders of social and family contacts. During the crisis, the elderly will eventually have been scarcely heard and visible. In March, the Minister of Solidarity and Health entrusted Jérôme Guedj with the task of identifying the levers that would help combat the isolation of fragile people. However, this is not a new fact: this feeling of loneliness, of relegation on the margins of society, is regularly expressed in the context of moving testimonies, and calls for a committed policy of comprehensive and continuous inclusion of the elderly. We must no longer consider these French from the point of view of their health alone, but consider their experiences, their wishes, their expectations, so that they can live their citizenship in a full and complete way. To this end, the report by Jérôme Guedj, published on 16 July 2020, makes some 30 recommendations organised around five axes, with a view to structuring a policy to combat isolation. It proposes, among other things, to pair EHPADs with sports schools or clubs, to finance digital equipment, to generalize the organisation of neighbourhood solidarity or to create departmental telephone lines for listening, psychological support and social orientation. However, these recommendations may seem almost utopian in a context of streamlined care and staff shortages. So, Madam Minister Delegate, on behalf of the IDU and independent group, I would like to ask you about a central theme: the ratio of supervision. In EHPAD, as in many care services, many officers feel that they cannot perform their duties properly, that they can't do their job properly, that they don't pay enough attention to the residents they are in charge of. The interactions of these elderly people with caregivers take the form of routine activities, contrary to the valuing of their autonomy. The subject is frequently raised in our debates, particularly during the annual review of the PLFSS, as our seniors do not only want to live longer, but simply live better. The 2007-2012 plan "Large age solidarity" provided for the progression of this ratio up to 1, i.e. one caregiver per elderly person. To date, the stated objectives are far from being achieved: according to the latest DREES study – the Department of Health's Directorate of Research, Studies, Evaluation and Statistics – the supervisory ratio was 0.6 in 2017. Most institutions have at least one vacancy for more than six months; those in isolated communes are often the first victims of these recruitment difficulties, and the need for medical coordinators is acute. In addition, this rate of supervision remains low compared to other European countries: for ten residents, there are ten caregivers in Denmark and twelve in Germany. While recent reports, including that of Ms. El Khomri, indicate the commitment and dedication of caregivers to support our seniors, it is clear that the professional exhaustion and lack of attractiveness of these professions require a clear and proactive response. Deputy Minister, our questions about EHPAD were substantially the same a year ago, on January 8, 2020, on the eve of the health crisis. Can you tell us more about the timing of the "large age and autonomy" bill and what workforce efforts are planned? All stakeholders in the sector are waiting for these responses; This text is now of an absolute urgency.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u151	Mr Michel Larive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u152	The first wave of the epidemic has unquestionably revealed your unrepair, as well as the limitations of our health system, weakened by the accounting approach and the tight flow management logic that has prevailed over the past two decades in its organization, to the detriment of public health objectives. During this first wave, the executives and staff of EHPAD had to adapt urgently to the conflicting injunctions of your administration, while trying to preserve the people for whom they had responsibility: with professionalism and dedication, they managed to stop the disaster that was coming. However, the chronic shortage of staff, which has been reported for years by the group France, the difficulties of supplying equipment to combat the spread of the virus, has not made it easier for them to do so, on the contrary, aggravating existing structural failures and causing major problems. Furthermore, the ban on visits has plunged many residents into immense psychological distress, which has had a serious impact on the health of some of them. We must take into account the tragedy experienced by many families, who have found themselves unable to see a father, mother, brother, sister, or even adequately provide funeral rites for their elders who have suffered from illness. These human tragedies will lastingly mark memories. According to consistent evidence, the second wave was a little better experienced, particularly because residents were able to continue to receive visits during confinement this time. However, this relaxation, considered essential by many older professionals, probably did not have an impact on the spread of the virus within EHPADs. In a press release issued in November, the director of the RSA – the regional health agency – of Occitanie described the situation of institutions in the region as "extremely critical" and recalled the large number of residents affected: unfortunately, there was much more than in the first wave.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u153	He's gonna get fired!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u154	If you want to talk, Mr Cordier, you will do it later! According to some sources, EHPAD residents account for approximately 45% of deaths associated with the covid -19 epidemic. At the end of October, the Government launched an urgent recruitment campaign; Unfortunately, it seems that it is still struggling to achieve its objectives. Madam Minister Delegate, can you tell us where we are at on these recruitments, knowing that, as Caroline Fiat and Monique Iborra indicated in their 2018 report, we would have to double the number of caregivers at the bedside of residents to only manage to remedy the structural deficiencies of the EHPADs? In addition, the lack of information and transparency about the situation in these institutions, whether staff, residents or their families, has considerably increased mistrust of the authorities; We collectively bear the costs of this harmful climate, because the lack of confidence expressed by a large part of the French population jeopardizes the success of the vaccination campaign that begins. In my constituency, in Ariège, staff working in some of the pilot EHPADs where vaccination has begun regret that too many residents remain reluctant to receive this vaccine. Among the main reasons given for their mistrust are the accumulation of contradictory information, the feeling of great disorganization and the lack of transparency in the management of the epidemic – in addition to the lack of coordination which in practice hinders the successful conduct of the vaccination campaign in EHPADs. For example, I have been told that in one of the pilot establishments in my department, which accommodate nearly 200 elderly people, the day of the first vaccination session was set by the RSA just a week in advance. Only one coordinating physician had two days to obtain the consent of the dozens of persons concerned, some of whom were unable to give it directly. This doctor organized himself as best he could on the basis of the information provided by the RSA, but on the day he was to place the order for vaccine doses, the RSA provided him with a new questionnaire to collect this consent again. So he had to go back to the volunteers in record time to meet the demands of the administration. [[Applause on the benches of the FI, SOC and GDR groups]] All this energy spent in emergency and stress so that in the end, the establishment is informed that the doses could not be delivered on the agreed day, but only two days later... How do you want the staff to interpret this kind of disappointment? Should this be seen as a total disregard of the administration for the care workers, or a sign of poor coordination and great incompetence? With my testimony, Madam Deputy Minister, I am probably not the first to inform you of these malfunctions. As you are responsible for the health policy of our country, what concrete solutions are you planning to meet the social and health requirements of the situation?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u155	Mrs Jeanine Dubie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u156	Since the onset of the covid-19 virus in France, institutions for the elderly have unfortunately been suitable places for its spread, and residents of these institutions have been the first victims of the epidemic because of the very fragile health status of many of them. As reported by the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the Management of the Health Crisis, these residents have paid a very heavy toll on the crisis, despite the commitment and dedication of the medical and social teams who have worked without counting. We thank them and express our gratitude. Between March and November 2020, more than 96,000 covid-19 cases were recorded in EHPAD, and half of the deaths in France were residents of EHPAD. The staff of these institutions were not spared, since there were more than 47,000 cases among them at the end of the year – since then, the numbers have unfortunately continued to increase. If we now measure the full seriousness of this situation, we must not forget that in the first days of the crisis we had no figures to corroborate what we all had in mind. Could a better organization in the reporting of information have allowed for a faster awareness of what was happening at the time? It is permissible to ask the question. On the other hand, the delay in the supply of protective equipment and screening equipment is a reality. The shortage has not ensured the safety of residents and staff in a satisfactory manner, even though institutions for the elderly should have been among the priorities since the beginning of the pandemic. The representatives of the directors of establishments who were interviewed by the commission of inquiry described a period of floating, with a response to EHPADs very clearly shifted over time in relation to the priority given to the hospital apparatus and to the medical apparatus. Recognition of the priority of staff and residents of institutions for access to the tests took place only on 9 April. However, systematic screening could have made it possible to adapt the containment strategy so as not to have to isolate those who did not need to be. Indeed, if the two containment periods we experienced in 2020 were a test for the entire population, we know that for EHPAD residents, this isolation has been even more painful. The confinement of facilities and isolation in rooms were very difficult to establish for practical reasons relating to the architecture of buildings, but mainly for ethical reasons, especially for residents suffering from neurodegenerative diseases, who did not understand these measures. The feeling of isolation was reinforced by the brutal ban on outside visits, as well as by the cessation of collective activities. In general, all the elements essential to the physical and psychological stimulation of the residents were interrupted. Some families have permanently lost the link with their parents, and decompensation and slip syndromes have increased during these periods due to the cancellation of interventions usually performed by these care professionals considered non-essential such as psychologists, physiotherapists or speech therapists. Fortunately, taking into account the effects of the first confinement, the current health protocol has relaxed and improved certain provisions. Finally, these constraints have been compounded by structural difficulties, linked to the lack of staff and resources. For several years, a paradox has worsened this phenomenon with, on the one hand, polypathological persons who are increasingly in need of care and, on the other hand, grants allocated to establishments which have little or no improvement over the years. This situation can no longer be sustained, Madam Minister Delegate. Beyond the introduction of bonuses and salary adjustments, we need a major plan to recruit and upgrade older trades. From every crisis, we must learn the lessons. The heatwave of 2003 led to the creation of the National Solidarity Fund for Autonomy – CNSA – and the Day of Solidarity. Last June, it was the covid -19 epidemic that took us forward on the job of accompaniment for people in situations of dependency, with the creation of a fifth branch of social security, known as the autonomous branch. Unfortunately, no new funding has been dedicated to this new branch, except for the allocation of a fraction of CSG starting in 2024. [[Mr. Philippe Vigier applauds]] [[Christine Pires Beaune and Philippe Vigier applaud]] Each time, you refer us to the bill on age and autonomy that you have promised us since the beginning of the quinquennium but that is still waiting – a bit like the Arlésienne, the one we're talking about, that we're waiting for and that never happens... Despite all the announcements made on this subject, the path is still long and the needs, immense. Without substantial additional funding and a comprehensive policy of support for autonomy, we will not be able to meet the societal challenge that this subject represents. Madam Deputy Minister, we are counting on you.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u157	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u158	The health crisis has passed on to our society and revealed, if necessary, pre-existing vulnerabilities and inequalities. This was obviously the case in the area of care and loss of autonomy. Our health care system has been strained to fight the covid-19 pandemic. He had to face the crisis by already being weakened by years of fiscal austerity, cuts in health spending and rampant commodification. The critical situation of the EHPADs was long known, and the crisis only worsened the daily difficulties. The information report written by Monique Iborra and Caroline Fiat in 2018 had already drawn up an alarming state of affairs: lack of public resources – as you know, Madam Deputy Minister, since you were then chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs –, understaffed personnel, degraded working conditions, lack of medicalisation, all on the background of private offensives on the sector. At least 21% of EHPAD places are now privately owned, which implies the presence of shareholders who require indecent levels of profitability, weakening the ownership and monitoring of residents and affecting the necessary mutualisation. According to a study by the Échos, the average net margin rate was 7.8% in 2017, already showing an increase of 0.9 percentage points over the previous year. It is also recalled that in the middle of the crisis, the sector's giants first considered paying several tens of millions of euros of dividends to their shareholders before they resolved to give up, realizing that the indecency of such a gesture could jeopardize their future. Like all of us, I'm thinking about our elders. In the first wave, 29,933 people died as a result of the covid-19 and of this total, 14081, or almost half, were residents of seniors' accommodation facilities. The second wave did not fundamentally derogate from this situation. This health drama has been accompanied by social and psychological distress in the institutions due to the deterioration of the living conditions of the elderly. The containment measures reinforced their sense of isolation and limited their social contacts. Efforts to support self-reliance have been affected, and the ban on family visits, which are so important to these people, has been an additional test, which the Members of the Committee on Social Affairs were alarmed at very early. This debate gives us an opportunity to understand the situation in order to better deal with the current crisis and prepare for the future. The work of the committee of inquiry on the impact of covid-19, delivered in December 2020, provides us with a striking insight into the impact of the health crisis in EHPADs. It is reported that the facilities were not equipped with masks before the end of March, that the tests were carried out at the dropper, that the care of the contaminated persons was delayed due to a lack of medicalization of these structures and lack of equipment, that there was a lack of resuscitation beds for elderly patients, and that the blue plan, the crisis management tool, was not engaged until 10 days before the date of the first confinement. Restriction and isolation measures have raised important ethical issues because of their social impact on residents, and we know how much the relationship is part of the care and accompaniment necessary for daily life. All these observations must be directed at us, they reflect the more delicate situation in which the staff and managers of these structures have been placed, which I would like to commend for their valuable work. They require urgent public action to ensure that every epidemic outbreak no longer results in a health tragedy and social suffering in EHPADs and to promote other ways of living such situations. Means are needed to hire large numbers of staff and thus achieve a decent level of supervision, purchase the necessary equipment and improve working conditions. It is time to recognize the social utility of the care and home help trades by revising the salary scales that have been blocked for years around the SMIC, which is an essential condition for the attractiveness of these trades. There is a need to move forward on the issue of the medicalization of EHPADs by strengthening the presence of coordinating physicians. In short, structural logics that put all staff in difficulty on a daily basis must be removed, and therefore a major training and recruitment plan must be financed. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR, SOC and LT groups]] Beyond that, we can no longer exonerate ourselves from profound changes in the face of a model of taking charge of the loss of autonomy at the end of breath. Reflections must be made to change the EHPAD model with the priority of "care". We need a new ambition in the face of the challenge of ageing, for which the creation of a separate branch does not provide guarantees, at least for the moment. We must provide better social protection and develop a powerful public service of autonomy, which means putting an end to austerity and ending the logic of privatization and the commodification of care and accompaniment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u159	Mr Didier Martin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u160	The global pandemic that has affected the entire population has hit older people harder in terms of isolation, the severity of the disease and, alas, in terms of mortality. Residents in EHPAD paid the heaviest price: while they represent only 1% of the French population, they accounted for one third of the victims of the covid. At the beginning of the first wave, institutions often lacked masks, hydro-alcoholic gel and individual equipment for caregivers. Protocols have sometimes delayed...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u161	That's the least we can say!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u162	...and when they arrived, they had to be applied under difficult conditions. Against the spread of the virus, heavy and binding measures had to be implemented. These measures and protocols have evolved over time: triggering the blue plan, closing of establishments or visiting relatives, confinement in rooms of residents... These effective measures have led to complications: placed in isolation, our elders have suffered from loneliness and boredom, and their physical and psychological condition has deteriorated. I am thinking with sadness of all those who have experienced apathy, who have lost the hope of seeing better days come and who, alas, have lived their last moments in anguish. In this painful context, we have been reminded that it is vital that the elderly person be placed at the centre of the reflection. This imperative must continue to guide our action. From 20 April onwards, the doors of the EHPADs were reopened; From 18 June, visits without an appointment were again allowed. Protecting the elderly without necessarily isolating them was the watchword during this second period of restriction. EHPAD staff were also hard-tested. However, they continued to carry out their missions with dedication on a daily basis. Affected by the virus, they worked understaffed while strictly respecting health rules. Tired, they remained mobilized. The health crisis has highlighted their essential role. We can be grateful for that. The "covid" premium was quickly paid: 1500 euros in the forty most affected departments, 1000 euros in the others. The Ségur de la santé allowed a salary increase of 183 euros in public and private non-profit EHPADs and 160 euros in the private lucrative sector. We must continue this effort to make these essential professions more attractive. I would also like to commend the directors and directors of the institutions, who have managed to rethink the organisation of the latter and the living spaces, and to provide personalized support for each resident. They have managed sick leave as best as possible and limited budget deficits, and the state has provided them with financial support. While the crisis has brought to light the courage of our caregivers, it has also made the dysfunctions more visible and brought forward ways of improving the attractiveness of the professions, the rate of supervision and the creation of a continuum between home and establishment, as well as prevention, but also the citizenship of the elderly. In addition, there will be reflections on the form of the EHPAD of the future: some organisations, some structures manage to contain the spread of the virus better. Today opens a new chapter in the fight against covid: that of vaccination. This time again, with health professionals, our seniors are the first beneficiaries. Madam Deputy Minister, please provide us with details on the modalities and timing of the deployment of vaccination in EHPADs. Colleagues, we wonder: will the second wave be less lethal than the first? We can reasonably hope for this through the lessons learned by health actors, the priority vaccination of the most vulnerable, the massive screening strategy through free testing, the StopCovid application and the isolation of contact cases. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Whatever happens, for our older people, who are ever more numerous from year to year, we will need a policy of old age to be ready to absorb the great demographic transition of the 2030s, a great plan for older people that will be part of a larger space, that of health democracy, in keeping with our principles of humanity, solidarity and equity.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u163	Mr Bernard Perrut has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u164	For almost a year now, the presence of coronavirus has had serious consequences for EHPAD residents, who are even fatal, since they have been particularly affected: more than 3700 of them died in the first week of April and they account for almost half of the people who died of the covid. Equal access to care has not always been respected: some elderly people have been cared for too late by overcrowded relief services and residents have been completely denied admission to hospital, being considered a non-priority. This is unacceptable and I think it is a fact that we can only share. The figures are hard: the first confinement was marked by 10,000 deaths in EHPADs and medical-social institutions. By 15 December last year, 18,000 residents had left us and the 20,000 mark was crossed at the beginning of this week. In addition, EHPAD staff have been heavily involved. Last spring, for at least two weeks, they had to work without a mask. Balance sheet: 18,000 employees contaminated. The government had requisitioned the masks for hospitals, but the generosity of municipalities and businesses enabled the institutions to cope with the shortage and to obtain supplies in the first few weeks of the epidemic. The tests, too, arrived late and the EHPADs were declared priority only in April – why, by the way, so late? – without any stock of their own equipment until that date.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u165	The question should be asked of Mr. Salomon!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u166	With regard to the deployment of the vaccine strategy, only 10 per cent of the 7000 EHPADs are reported to have received their vaccine doses to date. Let's hope I'm wrong and everything gets better very quickly. There were no plans for these institutions, which suffered from a lack of equipment, staff and even consideration. In about fifteen establishments, the staff, who intervenes admirably, with professionalism and dedication every day, have even made the radical choice, which we must thank them for, to remain confined to the residents, in order to prevent them from slipping, leaving a life that was no longer worth it, without care or accompaniment. Only when masks arrived, and then tests, did the number of deaths decrease. However, the residents of these institutions have not been completely spared: the quality of life has deteriorated during successive confinements. Several thousand elderly people were forced to remain confined to rooms of a few square metres, a closed door, having as their sole distraction only the passage of the people who brought them food and cared for them, without possible visits from their families, themselves very tried and very worried. Cases of anorexia and depression have even been reported. This total lack of care dedicated to the mental health of older people leads us to wonder about the dignity we give them. Recall that many of them have left life in the greatest isolation, despite the attempts of the caregivers, who once again had to adapt to the distress of the residents, doubling ingenuity to combat their loneliness. However, tablets could not replace the presence and affection of loved ones. Shouldn't a true containment protocol be established in case of an epidemic? Aware of the lack of material and human resources in the medical and social establishments, which is not the date of the health crisis and for which I am of course not responsible, Madam Minister, there is an urgent need to develop new working methods. Adapting our resources to the crisis is a major challenge for both residents and caregivers. In this sense, the development of telemedicine seems essential. Our means must be multiplied to provide for vulnerable residents and to relieve caregivers overwhelmed by the pressure surrounding them. While Ms. Buzyn was still Minister of Health, discussions had begun on a bill on age and autonomy. A year after the Libault report was submitted, no reform is yet underway, while the warnings have not been missed in recent years. Renovation of buildings, upgrading of wages, improvement of the attractiveness of professions and careers in order to remedy the shortage of staff, development of links between establishment and home, diversification of reception modes: the construction site is immense! However, the question of financing has still not been resolved, while the social security accounts have been severely affected by the health crisis. [[Applause on the benches of the LR and IDU-I group]] That is why Members of the Republican Group, like Members from all the other groups, I think, believe that a major project on old age, autonomy and dependency must be a priority with the aim of relieving caregivers, ensuring decent living conditions for EHPAD residents and encouraging home care. This text must not suffer any further postponement, Madam Minister, as the health crisis has highlighted the serious flaws in our system of support and care for dependency. We must all work together to ensure this, regardless of the benches where we sit.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u167	Mr Cyrille Isaac-Sibille has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u168	Before coming to my speech, allow me to take a moment, in this heavy and uncertain context, to greet again all the professionals and citizens involved in EHPAD and at home: they have invested in this crisis and continue to do so.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u169	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u170	EHPAD means "accommodation facilities for dependent seniors". Many of us are talking about it, talking about their difficult situation, pointing to the problems faced by those who work there and those who reside there, but have we really wondered about the existence of this very type of establishment? Such a subject, which says a lot about how we view old age and our model of society, requires us to rise. The SOC Group – whose membership is not very large today – invites us to look at the situation of EHPADs after two confinements. What if a virus entering an establishment that concentrates fragile and vulnerable people could only lead to the consequences that we all see and that some are naively denouncing by covering that breast that they cannot see? Is responsibility, in fact, not to look on the side of the model of regrouping old and fragile people in one place, a model that we have all set up and for which we are all responsible? How have we managed to create EHPADs, these nursing homes in which none of us dream of ending their existence? Don't see in this remark a challenge to the tremendous work that caregivers and administrative staff do – I know their unwavering dedication despite the growing difficulties they face; See only the questioning of a disenchanting model. How have we managed to build a system that offers our dependent seniors only one way out, that of EHPAD? How did we end up segmenting French society between autonomous assets, on the one hand, and ageing and dependent people, on the other. Questioning EHPADs is about our model of society. Let us briefly go back and ask ourselves how the seniors were taken care of. At the end of the Second World War, they were mostly aged at home and relied on the solidarity of the younger generation and their entourage. At that time, the future of seniors was still imagined in the midst of their own, in their families, especially in rural areas, which were more conducive to community life.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u171	Not just!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u172	Some, unfortunately, also found refuge in hospices, unfriendly places – it is a sweet euphemism. Then the welfare state, during the Thirty Glorious, wanted to imagine a new system and created these retirement homes through large movements of urban migration. The grouping of the elderly was then at work. Can we still see a synonym for progress? No, just look around: everyone wants to age healthy and no one dreams of ending their days in an EHPAD, no one sees these structures as a model anymore. We live older, and it's so much better, but unfortunately – and it's also one of our records – often in poor health. The solution is quite simple: it is a question of ageing in good health, hence the interest of prevention, and in a way not isolated, hence the interest of developing a comprehensive offer of home services and suitable housing. It would be wrong to claim that the problem of EHPAD is new and that it was revealed in the open by the crisis of the covid. For the past two years, our majority has taken up this issue through the publication of numerous reports. The question of the home approach is on all lips. We must provide ourselves with the necessary resources and rethink our model in its entirety. That is why, Madam Deputy Minister, we are now awaiting the great social law of the quinquennium...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u173	It's urgent to wait!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u174	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] ...that should allow us to change our gaze on the old age.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u175	The Deputy Minister for Self-Government has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u176	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to express my best wishes to you, after a year, each of which has reminded us how difficult it was. I am delighted to find you – I find you very well!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u177	As always, ma'am!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u178	This beginning of the year is marked by a note of hope: the opening of vaccination coverage, aimed primarily at our seniors. The vaccine aims to protect against the most serious forms of this virus that have changed our lives and demanded many sacrifices – which you have mentioned amply, some rightly, others while moving away from the facts. A year ago, we knew nothing about the virulence of covid-19, let alone its mortality. Today we are discussing the situation in the EHPADs after two periods of confinement. It is essential to recall this, because the context has changed dramatically as we discover the virus and learn to know it, to protect ourselves from it and, now, to prevent it. The context is therefore essential. You are aware of my commitment to parliamentary scrutiny, which is the essential task of Parliament, in the best possible conditions, given the context in which public action has been carried out. Indeed, it was for having led parliamentary scrutiny in the field that, after my appointment with Olivier Véran, it seemed essential to me to draw all the lessons from the first wave. For our elders, we had to look at what had been done and what could be done in light of the evidence that has emerged since, to better measure our actions and to strike a new balance between the protection of seniors and the necessary freedom. That is why, as soon as I arrived, the Ministry published a first health protocol, on 11 August, aimed, in particular, at EHPADs, aimed at anticipating a deterioration of the epidemic situation. The aim was to alert the teams of these institutions in the event of clustering. In the middle of the summer, at a time when the epidemic seemed to be on the move, we recommended that each facility ensure strict adherence to barriers and hygiene rules, maintain a covid-19 cell and organize itself to manage the appearance of clusters as best as possible. I hear too often that the state has not anticipated the second wave. However, I can tell you that this is not true, particularly with regard to EHPADs. The staff, whom I meet every day, have told me: they are better trained and better prepared. I was particularly committed to defending the balance through which we could protect our elders without isolation. It is a matter of doing everything possible to prevent the spread of the epidemic within institutions, but without ever denying an indisputable reality: the elderly are citizens in their own right, not objects of care. In the first wave, when we were not yet familiar with the virus, decisions of strict isolation in the chamber were made, at the risk of causing the slip syndromes you mentioned and loss of luck. At the time, we had no choice: the virus hit our elders without giving them a lot of chance of getting out of it, and our scientific knowledge was very limited. With these teachings, we could not reproduce the same instructions in the second wave. The principle of protection without isolation was then established as the only possible course of action. At the start of the school year, as contamination cases reached significant levels, and as a new protocol, dated 1 October, reinforced health measures, we deployed this principle in an ethical charter that unambiguously defined the rights of residents in times of health crisis and focused on seeking the consent of individuals and maintaining ties with their loved ones. To assert that EHPADs are places of life and accommodation was, in my view, an indispensable prerequisite before imposing new constraints on the security of residents. In managing the crisis, I have been particularly careful to combine moderation in the development of health protocols with the absolute need to adapt to the evolution of the epidemic and the availability of new weapons to combat it. Since one of these weapons, with scientifically proven efficiency, is at our disposal, I make sure that it is deployed as a matter of priority to the older age sector. Thus, at the end of the Toussaint holiday, when the antigenic tests arrived, we organized a massive screening operation with all EHPAD professionals, with stocks provided and financed entirely by the State. We then systematized this action throughout the month of December, with a "knock" operation of weekly screening of all EHPAD professionals by antigenic tests. The State is the guarantor of this operation, for which a total of 1.6 million tests have been delivered. I know that this measure may have met with some reluctance among professionals – I can obviously understand them – but it was one of the guarantees of respect for our compass: to protect without isolation. In addition, I pay particular attention to the fact that the role of caregivers is always taken into account and that the protocols are adapted to the presence of caregivers with the elderly, while respecting health measures. As the end-of-year celebrations approached, while we had made considerable efforts, it was obviously not time to relax our vigilance; It was about the health situation in the country. On the other hand, it seemed to me essential to find the right balance, once again, between health security and freedom, in order to allow the greatest number of seniors not to feel alone and isolated during this particular time. This year, the holiday season was indeed very important to the elderly and their loved ones – even more, perhaps, than it had been for a long time. I wanted a protocol specific to this period to be published to secure visits, to allow families who wished to see their loved ones, to secure the return to institutions of seniors who had spent some time in their families, without insulating them in their rooms, and finally for festive times to be organized in the institutions – I realized this in many places on the spot. In addition to the health protocols, during the first six months of the crisis, I made a firm commitment to support the institutions. Together with Olivier Véran, we deployed an ambitious action plan to help those suffering from human resources tensions. Without being exhaustive, I will mention only the main mechanisms that have been implemented: the use of the health reserve; mobilising 10,000 young people in civic service, in particular to combat the isolation of people in institutions and at home; deployment and strengthening of geriatric and health facilities in all institutions; use of special pricing arrangements to encourage several tens of thousands of liberal doctors to intervene in EHPAD; mobilising employment offices and SROs to identify and respond to needs in the territories – 10,000 job applications have been filled to date. I have therefore not confined myself to establishing rules since Paris, but have come to the support of the old age sector, alongside its actors, in the territories, on a daily basis. My commitment also concerned the financing of the structures, with account being taken of the additional costs incurred by the EHPADs during the period. Under the first wave alone, we have mobilised EUR 200 million to cover the additional costs due to the covid-19. As I have announced, new ways of covering the additional costs will be foreseen for the second wave. It is with the same mindset that we assume responsibility for the additional costs associated with the vaccination campaign in the establishments, the mobilization of nurses and doctors, as well as the acquisition of the necessary protective equipment. Before talking more broadly and more precisely with you by answering your questions, I wanted to respond to the erroneous statements I have heard in recent days about EHPAD vaccination. Our vaccination strategy is based – and has always been based – on the opinions of scientists and health authorities, and on the association, to which I have always looked after, of all the actors of the old age. With this co-construction, we have made the choice of immunizing the most vulnerable people as a matter of priority. What would we have heard if we had decided otherwise, with the number of deaths that you all recalled? We know that Pfizer and Moderna vaccines protect against serious forms, but we have no certainty that they are acting against the contagiosity of the virus; It is therefore unnecessary to start with young people or people who do not have a risk factor, even if they are caregivers. We want to protect the most vulnerable by immunizing them, but it is out of the question of doing so outside their place of residence. It was inconceivable to ask elderly people who had lost their autonomy to go to vaccination centres in the middle of winter. This is why the vaccine is brought to EHPAD – naturally, it takes a little more time. Each EHPAD will receive doses of vaccine in the coming weeks – this has already begun, as you know: all the dates of the vaccination campaigns are already known; If this is not the case, let me know as soon as possible. We have therefore chosen to provide a perfectly secure environment for the people concerned. Vaccination is not compulsory and must be the result of a free choice. For residents of EHPADs or long-term care units – USLDs – sometimes with Alzheimer's – the collection of consent necessarily takes a little longer, but is no less important. You should contact the families, who sometimes wish to be there at the time of vaccination. What would it have been if we didn't? I therefore find it intolerable that these procedures are considered to be responsible for the alleged slowness of the vaccination campaign, even though they result from common sense and respect for the person, and correspond to what is normally prescribed for any medical action. Our goal is to offer vaccination to all elderly people in EHPAD and USLD, and to vaccinate one million people by early February. Our upscaling is exponential to achieve this goal. It is obviously too early, as you will agree, to draw up a comprehensive assessment of the measures taken during the management of the health crisis. This will put us to the test and mobilize us for many months. However, the evolution of our response allows us to obtain measurable results: while at the peak of the first wave, one in two EHPADs was affected by one or more cases of covid -19, they were only one in four at the peak of the second wave, and are now only one in ten, or about 700 clusters. This progress is due to the collective learning from the first wave – we have been able to prepare and adapt – but it is mainly due to the daily dedication of EHPAD staff, caregivers, co-ordinators, support staff and nurses. We owe them a lot, and we will keep repeating it. While 850 establishments were affected by December 24, the situation is improving, but remains very fragile. I will therefore remain fully mobilized to combat the epidemic, without ever questioning the intangible principles that I have recalled: to protect without isolation. It is with these same principles that the Government is determined to implement the reform of old age and autonomy, a commitment that has been established as a priority at the end of the health crisis. The Ségur de la santé contains a massive investment plan dedicated to profoundly transforming the housing offer of the elderly.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u179	It's about time!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u180	More than €2.1 billion is being mobilised by the state over five years, a four-fold increase in its participation in buildings, whether for renovation, space creation or digital deployment operations, the importance of which is crucial during the crisis we are going through. However, these are not just means: I wanted this investment plan to be translated into a strategy of residential journeys for the elderly, so that the ability to age at home can be translated into trajectories that guarantee active ageing. Yes, Mr. Isaac-Sibille...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u181	He's gone!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u182	... we need to rethink the models and the look we take at the old age; we need to build a more protective EHPAD of tomorrow, better dealing from an architectural point of view, networked and open to the outside; We need to develop inclusive housing and relationships with the home. This requires us to think with the best experts – urban planners, architects and sociologists – but also with the elderly themselves, how we design their places of life, all places of life. In a few weeks, the SRAs, whom we consulted, will receive an initial instruction detailing the practical modalities of this investment plan. This will only be a first step in the transition, before defining guidelines that will structure our approach. I will naturally need you, in the territories, to lead with me the reflection that we will lead in the second quarter. Be aware, Mrs Pires Beaune, that we are ready to work on this beautiful idea of quality and transparency, which families are asking for. This reform of the old age and autonomy could have been an umpteenth financial reform with an investment plan on places in EPHAD and a management rate, but I am convinced that the impending demographic transition pushes us to do more: we must act decisively to enable people to age as long as possible at home, in accordance with their unanimous wish; We must act on the affirmation of the rights of elderly people at home or in institutions, who must now more than ever be regarded as citizens in their own right. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] The Government will be at the rendezvous to get out of this health crisis with a real prospect of the future for this sector. I am now at your disposal, ladies and gentlemen, to answer your questions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u183	We come to the questions. I would remind you that the length of the questions, as well as the length of the answers, is limited to two minutes, without the right to reply. Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u184	This crisis is terrible, and we see the devastating consequences every day, but perhaps the most terrible thing is that it pushes us to count the living and the dead and to bring our elders into tables of figures in order to try to justify health policies, especially in our EHPADs, where the figures we have for the number of dead are not completely reliable data, since the state does not have the mortality database, but extrapolations made from these data. This lack of transparency hinders us because, as we have all seen in our constituencies, it induces the protocols put in place for our elders and allows us to decide what we would like for those people who have reached the end of their lives without us being sure that we can make choices that are always humanly defensible. As we know, the majority of French people want to finish their lives at home, surrounded by their loved ones when they have them and taken care of by home helpers – whose commitment deserves to be welcomed once again. The choice of EHPAD often comes because there is no alternative, and all the dedication and skill of the staff of these institutions, to whom the entire nation has expressed its deep appreciation, is not enough to give the necessary breath to an ambitious society project. As my colleague Christine Pires Beaune has just pointed out, there is indeed a glaring shortage of staff, the exhaustion of caregivers who are, for lack of colleagues, unable to take their leave, too low wages, a less and less attractive job and, with the crisis, the health constraints which have made the daily lives of these women and men a situation to the limit of the bearable, a painful management of the deceased, the expectations of families and residents in great pain, suffering isolation and this well-known slippage syndrome which says the moment when these people abandon the fight because they are deprived of affection, contact, activities and pleasure. Despite the constraints that increase the workload, staff have introduced multiple forms of accompaniment to compensate for the lack of visits and have changed their habits and schedules to rehumanize EHPADs, as residents need care, relationships, as well as paramedics, psychomotorists, psychologists, art therapists, hairdressers and animators to revive them, and to move them still. [[Applause on the SOC and GDR benches]] So my question is quite simple: when are you going to propose a project that finally allows you to take into account the old age?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u185	Good question!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u186	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u187	Your question is a bit general. As you have heard, the project is of course about the home approach that needs to be addressed around the old age, since that is the wish expressed by the people concerned. It is also about strengthening, equipping, renovating and transforming the EHPAD model, which is often forgotten that "H" does not mean "hospital" but "accommodation". We have not waited for the law or the parliamentary calendar to work on the issues that you have recalled, as well as on the issues of occupations that require upgrading – this is already done for EHPAD professionals within the framework of Ségur – especially those who intervene at home. In this respect, we are negotiating with the departments, since we are not the only operators involved in these trades. We also continue to work on the legitimate recognition due to them, including the business cards they request. That is what I can tell you for the time being, as the calendar has to be refined over the weeks. Priority projects are being examined and responses are already being made to the stream. We work in a very concrete way, not in weightlessness.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u188	Mr Thomas Gassilloud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u189	The year 2020 highlighted, in a way, the difficulties already identified for a long time in EHPADs. I would, of course, like to thank the health care staff and all the staff who work in these institutions for their commitment this year. Launched in the spring of 2020, the Ségur de la santé is a massive investment and upgrading plan for all careers for our hospital. The majority of trade union organisations signed this agreement, which was subsequently supplemented by new lines of credit, notably in the Social Security Financing Act for 2021. I am thinking in particular of the EUR 150 million shift now, and then EUR 200 million from 2022 to help the departments financially take on a raise in the order of 15% of salaries in the rates for the financing of home support and support services – SAAD. However, it seems that there are still structures for which these financings are slow to arrive. This is the case, in my constituency, of the EHPAD Les Emeraudes, in the commune Vaugneray, where this premium, which could be paid at fifty-four full-time equivalents, would amount to 280000 euros. However, this associative EHPAD, like other similar structures, obviously does not have the cash to make this advance of funds and increase its employees. Can you tell us, Madam Deputy Minister, when these funds will be paid in order to raise the salaries of staff working in voluntary EHPADs? I would also like to draw your attention to other social structures, such as home nursing services – SSIAD – that hire in the same trades, but for a home exercise, and that are not eligible for these aids. Can you tell us what is planned for these structures, so important for our territories? And since I have a few seconds left, I take the opportunity to greet the SSIAD des Monts du Lyonnais.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u190	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u191	I, in turn, salute the SSIAD of your constituency. Let me tell you from the outset that there are not really forgetful of Segur, as I can read everywhere.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u192	A little bit, though!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u193	Yes! Excluded!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u194	There are professionals who have shown dedication and who we have followed very closely in this crisis. If they've been forgotten, it's during the previous quinquennats,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u195	You were elected!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u196	...but certainly not by this government. The aim of the Ségur de la santé is precisely to provide additional recognition to these professionals, particularly in terms of wages. I insist on the word "in particular" because, while salary is paramount, it does not do everything. These personnel must also be recognized for their role in society and the health crisis has fortunately valued them. It was the least I could do. The agreement provided for an increase of 183 net euros per month for public and private non-profit EHPADs and 160 net euros per month for the commercial private sector. For the hospital public service, the first payments were made following the publication of the regulations at the end of the year. With regard to professionals from other sides of the public service, the dedicated texts, which will be taken this month, provide for a retroactive upgrading in the interests of fairness. For private EHPADs, whether for profit or not, the state has made its arrangements, but the Segur must be transposed by collective agreements, as you have said, MP, or by unilateral decisions of employers. The funds will therefore be released in February, retroactively also for private institutions that have signed these agreements. For other social and medico-social institutions, additional work is required. That is why Prime Minister Michel Laforcade, who has the necessary general expertise as former Director General of an ARS, has been assigned to formulate operational responses before the end of the first quarter in order to extend this agreement to the other medical and social professionals you mention.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u197	Mr Christophe Naegelen has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u198	As everywhere in France, the situation remains extremely complicated in the Vosges, where the second wave hit a number of our EHPADs. Once again, residents and staff are on the front line. In my constituency, the EHPAD of Bussang illustrates the difficulties encountered in the territory. The teams have been working in reduced numbers for months without interruption and this crisis has aggravated the situation with numerous additional work stoppages and, unfortunately, few reinforcements. The staff is exhausted physically, but also morally. Nursing assistants and retired nurses wanted to come and support their former colleagues. Why has it not been possible for these people, who are volunteers, to come and help at the height of the crisis? In addition, the health reserve, which has been managed in a catastrophic way by Public Health France, has in recent months been more than lamentable. The check of the files of thousands of volunteers is carried out by eight people! There is no coordination, particularly with the reinforcement-covid operation, which has proved otherwise more effective in responding to the demands of health facilities through decentralized management and direct contact with volunteers. However, this system has remained far too little known. In view of this, Madam Minister Delegate, how do you intend to reform the health reserve in order to make it operational and allow EHPADs who need it to be able to count on this indispensable resource in the coming days?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u199	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u200	I share with you this concern about the possibility of having reinforcements and we activate all possible levers in this area, but the attractiveness, enthusiasm and appetite for trades are unfortunately not decreed. Like you, I regret that the use of the health reserve is not possible, and it will probably be necessary to review the age limit. You may have seen that the human resources reinforcement platforms, which are led by the ARS and the department, have been reactivated. As of December 21, more than 18,000 people were registered, of whom more than 14,000 were available. Health students, nurses, health care workers and social work students were mobilized, training programs were developed to increase the volumes of internships for health students in institutions, and medical and intern students in internships were reallocated where the needs were most acute. Together with the Secretary of State for Youth and Engagement, I decided to deploy 10,000 civic services to the EHPAD in the field of autonomy, to promote social ties, organize visits, and sometimes also animation in institutions. At the beginning of the second wave, I launched a recruitment campaign called "A Job for All" on older trades and asked for a circular to be sent to the ARS and the Directorates of Pôle Emploi in order to satisfy 10,000 job vacancies in EHPAD. Incentive packages, which paid liberal doctors and nurses in EHPAD, were put in place and extended until the end of 2020. These professionals can come to further strengthen the teams, and support, including financial support, will be maintained. Finally, a national system of medical and psychological care for staff in the private and public sectors was set up in April and is aimed in particular at EHPADs. It is a national scheme that relies on a hotline for health personnel mobilised at the bedside of patients in the context of the covid crisis, and a reception by voluntary clinician psychologists acting in accordance with a charter of good practices on which they commit themselves. All EHPADs were invited to move closer to all of these devices.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u201	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u202	Since 11 January 2020, 20616 people have died in EHPAD. I first have a thought for these women and men who sometimes could not see their loved ones one last time, who could not walk, eat in the canteen together, who could not participate in culinary activities or in the choir, who did not see the smiles behind the masks before leaving us. I am also thinking of those who saw their comrades go out and were afraid. All their habits were upset because it was then a matter of living, aging and dying at the time of the covid-19. The room visits were suspended, then this diet was relaxed during the holidays. EHPAD staff alerted about the lack of caregivers and resources, which did not guarantee compliance with the health protocol. Prior to this crisis the EHPAD caregivers already expressed their distress, they were already exhausted, ashamed of not being able to exercise their profession with dignity. They warned against the rapacity of the private groups of EHPAD, whose bosses are among the greatest fortunes in France, they denounced the savings made on the meals of the residents, on the wages of the auxiliaries of life or on the equipment of the establishments. Coronavirus wasn't right about their anger. These crisis profiters, who prefer money to people, are a shame to our Republic, even more so in times of epidemics. The lack of necessary resources and austerity at all times condemn residents to loneliness and abandonment. As early as March 2018, my colleague Caroline Fiat alerted you: to end institutional abuse in EHPADs, you have to hire 210,000 caregivers, an expenditure of 8 billion euros that you have been unable to find when you have deprived yourself – what a coincidence! – €8 billion in 2018 and 2019 by abolishing the solidarity tax on wealth. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Madam Minister Delegate, how long will the reign of loneliness last for our elderly people? What are you going to do about the crisis profiters who are getting fat on their backs? When will you finally put the necessary means to live and grow old in time of covid -19 is no longer a fear for our elders?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u203	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u204	Mrs Panot, you are well aware that we have a common concern to deal with this problem of old age and in particular with this situation in the EHPADs. If from 2017 on my arrival at the head of the Social Affairs Committee, I asked Mrs Fiat and Mrs Iborra for a report on this subject, it is good that I was aware of the problem of EHPADs!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u205	On the other hand, I would like you to listen when you are answered and you are able, from time to time, to put things in perspective. This crisis didn't start with our arrival, it was already there. Moreover, a health crisis of such magnitude has never occurred in any country, since it is a global pandemic. Then, it is wrong to say that we have not done anything since 2017 to increase the number of staff in EHPADs: more than 800 million euros have been allocated to them since 2017 as part of the tariff convergence, for example, which has created more than 18,000 posts since 2017.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u206	That was 8 billion!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u207	Of course, that is not enough, and we share your view on this point. We have, of course, taken into account the psychological situation and the slip syndromes that we knew thanks to the feedback from the first wave. So we have adapted this ethical charter, which I really want to value because it meets a real need. It is a constructive work that I invite you to continue in the framework of the consultation that we will soon be putting in place on these strategic issues of ethics and the fight against the isolation of older people. We can, of course, always focus on what is wrong; We can still, on the pretext of paying tribute to them, continue typing on the EHPADs. For my part, I prefer to see the treasures of ingenuity that they display to ensure that those who are welcomed in them are considered and treated well.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u208	Mr Olivier Falorni has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u209	Deputy Minister, it is clear that the lack of resources allocated to the medical and social sector has an impact on the tragedy that has taken place in our EHPADs since the beginning of the covid -19 epidemic. Their structural sub-donation as health workers has been aggravated in the epidemic phase by the fact that the workers themselves were sometimes ill or in isolation. In other words, more had to be done with less. The Committee of Inquiry into Crisis Management reported on situations in which nurses and health-care workers alone had to take the decision to initiate a palliative protocol, particularly in institutions without co-ordinators. Needs are urgent and teams are exhausted. From the outset of the health crisis, our group called for the establishment of a major plan for the recruitment and upgrading of older workers, not only in terms of remuneration, but also in terms of training and organisation. In October, an inter-ministerial circular called on prefects and regional health agencies to carry out an emergency recruitment campaign for older trades. Madam Deputy Minister, where are we? Are the accelerated training provided to them sufficient, even though the needs of the residents are considerable, particularly in medical terms? Above all, today we are no longer in the sole management of the emergency, the crisis for almost a year. Caregivers, who face constant stress, changes in services and teams, death, too, unfortunately, will be able to hold on in the long term? More than ever, we must take into account their exhaustion and accompany them psychologically when necessary. Madam Deputy Minister, are you ready to do it really?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u210	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u211	Mr. Member, as you may have heard in my presentation as well as in the presentation of the plan that we are preparing, we are, of course, addressing the issue of these trades. I recalled, considering that it would only be a question of revalorisation would be reducing: what needs to be re-aligned is the image of these professions. Everyone would benefit, especially at this time, from talking about it differently, and it is certainly not by typing on these establishments, as we sometimes do – not you, I grant you – that we will help their staff to feel valued. These people are the first people to tell us that they would like us to talk about them differently. Of course, they also expect a financial improvement which is necessary, in particular the categories mentioned earlier, but we also want to work on the training courses, sometimes simplify them and improve their quality. There is also a need to ensure that deployments in the territories are relevant, that there is more interaction between home helpers and institutions. In this way, the desire to work in these two sectors will be encouraged and mutual inadequacies will be addressed. We are working on this. With regard to the fact that some nurses would have been forced to carry out end-of-life acts, which are medical acts, I register falsely against this statement: we have of course verified that such acts were not required of them. For all these reasons, and for having conducted numerous hearings in the Committee of Inquiry, I can reassure you on this subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u212	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u213	First of all, thank you to our Socialist colleagues for putting this issue on our agenda. While a first step should be taken in terms of mortality, a comprehensive study of the causes of this multifactorial mortality is under way, beyond the causes related to the age of the public and the medical problems of these people, as well as the emergency protocols that have been drawn up? It is necessary to analyse the situation according to the nature of the institutions, whether they are public or private – without taking any legal action – depending on their capacity, whether they are large or small structures, and according to pre-pandemic operating differences, governance arrangements, in relation to families and resident councils. We must also ask ourselves about the pathologies that they have to manage – depending on whether or not there is an Alzheimer unit – and, of course, about the measures that have actually been adopted and that are necessarily differentiated on the ground. Is such an investigation under way and, if not, do you intend to hire it? Its usefulness is indisputable because, while there may have been treasures in the organization and management of this crisis, there have probably also been lead soles. In addition, the difficulties inherent in welcoming such a public will continue – Isaac-Sibille has asked relevant questions on this subject, even if the balance sheet is to be modified. Finally, what about the urgent efforts to strengthen the personnel I would call the experts of benevolence to the mind as well as to the body, such as psychologists or physiotherapists?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u214	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u215	As far as the needs of the EHPADs are concerned, as you have heard, we have learned a lot from this crisis, which has allowed us to adjust the shot, if I may say so, for the second wave and we will continue to adjust it with the flow of the water. There have, of course, been huge differences between the institutions, and we should not deny that, and we would all be well advised to draw the consequences for the reform that is being prepared. It became clear, in any case, that the most successful EHPADs were the most connected with the health world, the hospital or the city medicine, for example, as well as those with very strong management, able to activate hygiene protocols very quickly, to anticipate the need for reinforcements in human resources – assuming that the management itself did not become ill – but also those operating in small units of life, in which a social life could be maintained despite limited external contacts. The rate of supervision appeared to be the most important element in these units. We have therefore, in pain, advanced within a few weeks in the treatment of these difficulties which have to be overcome, each in its own way, bringing EHPADs closer to the health world, giving more room to the coordinating doctors, deployed massively the teleconsultation and the solutions of hospitalization at home and structured a real policy of strengthening human resources. It is to all these measures that we are working on, based on these lessons, and, of course, we will continue to refine this analysis.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u216	Mrs Jacqueline Dubois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u217	For almost a year, while seniors living in EHPAD have been at the heart of vaccine news, the daily lives of institutions have been greatly disrupted. My consultation with the EHPADs in my riding of Dordogne allows me to highlight the progress made since the first confinement. Directors report that they are better supplied with protective equipment, including through orders placed on their funds. However, this represents a significant cost. The commitment of staff, who are sometimes asked to do so to the end of their strength, is remarkable. I also welcome the mobilization of the SRA, which has been very reactive in the organisation of tests in case of covid symptoms. The crisis has heightened tensions over the recruitment of caregivers, particularly acutely in institutions affected by covid-19, but also in others. We have had difficulties in replacing caregivers, I was told, and especially nurses, as throughout the year. Of course, this is an old problem in rural EHPADs, where the recruitment of nurses is of particular concern.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u218	In addition, there is a decrease in the number of co-ordinators and treating physicians. Lack of health-care personnel slows the preparation and implementation of vaccination. On this point, it emerged from the discussions that the vaccination agenda was not yet known, which may undermine confidence. Deputy Minister, attracting more young people to the care professions is a challenge that we must face in order to better support the ageing of our societies. The improvement of earnings would contribute to the attractiveness of these occupations, but there is also a need to improve recruitment channels, to limit the number of dropouts in training and to facilitate the reorientation of these occupations during the year. Some of the measures in the recovery plan are aimed at accelerating recruitment and training in the field of health: what are the first results and what are your prospects in this area?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u219	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u220	Madam Member, you are right to point out that human resources have been strengthened in these institutions. As each of you pointed out, EHPAD personnel were particularly mobilized and needed these reinforcements. However, these needs were prior to the crisis and, each of them will agree, relate to the improvement of the supervision rate, in order to accompany them and to arrange their treatment and care in an appropriate way. There is also a need for support, support and replacement, as the crisis was ongoing and unfortunately did not spare these professionals, who were sometimes themselves affected by the virus, while others had to deal with family needs. We have therefore mobilized all possible levers, without distinguishing between rural and urban areas. Many associations have helped us. In this regard, I would like to commend the ADMR network – Rural Home Help – which has made some of its staff available to the institutions. But if they have been on the rendezvous, you can imagine that it has been even more difficult to maintain this health reserve during the second wave. We have therefore operated other levers, such as the civic service or the employment centre, to which we have sent a circular to ensure that the regional directorates, whatever the territory, set up an offer of employment in these professions as soon as possible. This approach was followed with 10,000 posts filled in EHPAD on the national territory. You see, there are many brakes and we try to lift them whenever we can. We have thus ensured that accelerated training is put in place to enable social and vocational integration. We have, in particular Brigitte Klinkert, activated these networks. We are making every effort to meet these needs with the aim of increasing the attractiveness of these jobs and thus contributing to their sustainability.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u221	Mrs Anne-Laure Cattelot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u222	Massive deaths of elderly people due to covid-19 have been very difficult for families, but also for EHPAD staff, despite their dedication to their professions; We can thank them. From every crisis, we must learn the lessons. In this case, several EHPAD directors from my constituency have told me of their difficulties in recruiting the staff needed to ensure the dignity and quality of reception and care for our seniors. It is therefore fair to value the profession, which was in the front line during the crisis. The monthly remuneration of 400,000 caregivers has increased by 183 euros net, as has been said, but you are well aware, Madam Deputy Minister, since I have asked you, like several other parliamentarians, that this increase does not concern professionals working at home in the framework of the SSIADs. You must help us solve this injustice, which generates completely understandable social tensions. I deeply believe that guaranteeing them remuneration commensurate with the social utility of their profession is a moral obligation. Beyond pay issues, EHPAD is the home of seniors and the workplace of staff. Many public EHPADs are still equipped with double rooms and communal sanitary facilities per floor, plus air currents and verandas that overheat at the slightest sunburn; In short, the comfort is rather brief. Will the EHPADs be modernised thanks to the financial resources that the State puts on the table through France Relance? Taking care of seniors and caregivers means taking care of society and France.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u223	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u224	Investment in EHPADs is a priority of the Health Segur. By learning the lessons of the crisis, we will be renovating differently, so that tomorrow's EHPADs are the ones that older people aspire to, rather than those that we would like to build ourselves. For five years, $2.1 billion will be spent on this renovation, or $400 million per year, to transform EHPADs and make them worthy of the name. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] I would point out that in two quinquennats, only 25% of public EHPADs have been renovated. In other words, three quarters of them have been abandoned. Let us therefore put things in perspective and appreciate the fact, without even mentioning the health crisis, that we are leading a massive renovation of these establishments, which need them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u225	Mrs Duby-Muller has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u226	This debate allows us, if we still need it, to measure the dramatic situation that EHPAD residents and caregivers have been going through since the beginning of the health crisis: little consideration, erratic measures that isolated residents from their families during the first confinement – sometimes until the slip syndrome –, lack of masks and tests in the spring and vaccine delay today. The staff is out of breath; I once again express my gratitude to him for his professionalism and dedication. I would like to warn you of another danger that the crisis of the covid-19 has worsened: the serious difficulties of recruitment, then of retention of the health care staff in the EHPADs of Haute-Savoie in the face of the strong attractiveness of neighbouring Switzerland. The cost of living is particularly high in border areas; Due to its proximity to Switzerland, the Haute-Savoie department is among the most expensive in France. The cost of land and housing is often record; The cost of living and daily expenses is as high as in Paris and well above the national average. However, EHPADs cannot align themselves with Swiss wages, often two or three times higher. As a result, caregivers are in a situation of constant tension. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Following the presentation of the health plan, a cost-of-living compensation coefficient was created for health workers working in the Paris region. All the criteria justifying the award of this expensive living premium in Île-de-France are also met by the healthcare staff of the border regions; The problem is not just about Paris. In several recent letters, Annie Genevard – who knows the same problem in the Doubs – Martial Saddier and I have alerted you about this situation. Can you commit yourself to taking measures to address the difficulties of recruiting and retaining healthcare staff in border EHPADs?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u227	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u228	Knowing other problems in border regions, I am very interested in having together a reflection on this subject in the framework of the trades plan that we are building. Indeed, while we will have to improve jobs and make them more attractive, we will also have to retain those who exercise them – a finding that is valid in other fields, such as social work. We therefore need to strengthen our own institutions and improve the sector, but also, as you said, to face the challenge of loyalty. However, we will only be able to maintain our loyalty by encouraging an appreciation for the trades in this sector, in particular by speaking differently – what the staff concerned are asking us to do, for example by means of an advertising campaign to enhance their trades. At the end of the crisis, when the urgency requirements are less, it would be good to encourage these professionals to talk about their jobs themselves, because they will be the ones who will talk about them the most correctly. I am very interested in this reflection and am ready to begin the process.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u229	Mr Maxime Minot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u230	I would like to associate my colleague Valérie Bazin-Malgras with this question. On March 11, in the face of the progression of the coronavirus epidemic, EHPADs were the first confined and visits were banned. As has been said and repeated, this has resulted in a very harsh isolation experienced by the residents. This confinement has had harmful effects on seniors and their families. However, professionals had warned that emotional health is as important as physical health. How many elderly people have let themselves die because of the loneliness they have been forced to? The ban on visits to EHPAD has raised a real ethical problem. In addition to this imposed and deadly isolation, EHPAD residents paid a heavy price in the first wave. The elderly, a living history of the nation, died alone, isolated, without their families being able to say goodbye. During the first confinement, the Government did not provide sufficient resources to enable EHPADs to deal with the coronavirus crisis with dignity. It was the staff of these institutions who responded. As a former medical-psychological aid practising in an EHPAD, I know what I'm talking about and I can only think of the caregivers who have sometimes isolated themselves with their patients, in my department of Oise as well as everywhere in France. Today, it is the vaccination campaign that is too slow to allow EHPADs to receive visits in safety and serenity. The draft law on the old age was due to be considered at the end of 2019, but consideration of this important and much-anticipated text has been postponed several times; It's unworthy. More than ever, there is an urgent need to respond to the needs of means expressed by EHPADs, and to understand that better anticipation is needed. The ageing of the population is one of the major challenges ahead for French society, but the Government seems to be turning a blind eye. The creation of an autonomous branch of social security is very positive, but it still needs to be allocated the appropriate means. However, the Deputy Minister, it is anticipated that these decisions will be made by order. Can you tell us what budgets are being considered?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u231	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u232	Thank you for this testimony, Mr. Minot, since you have known this industry. Your question is about ethics and dignity. In the face of a crisis of such magnitude, the first reflex is to protect. It is in a second stage, after having collected the feedback from the experiment, that we must find the peak line between the necessary health protection and the respect for the social life of people, who wish to meet their loved ones. In Crépy-en-Valois, a commune that you know well and which has experienced a very difficult situation...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u233	The first home!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u234	Exactly. I spoke to the mayor and caregivers; Many were still crying, including the mayor. We must draw conclusions from this. It is by listening to local actors, but also to families, that we can establish a protocol according to a delicate balance, I agree, especially in the event of a cluster: the directors of EHPAD then work, as we ask them, to provide proportionate answers to the situation, not implacable decisions, because we do not mention them in the protocols that we deploy. The adaptation of the measures to each institution remains: it requires reflection on the necessary mediation between families and management in order to find the right balance. The way forward cannot be over-directed; It is better to define an ethical charter for the elderly, respecting their rights. I heard 94-year-olds ask me to let them see their children; They wanted to take the risk. That's where we are! We do not listen enough to older people and look at them differently, as subjects of care more than subjects of law. Let's restore balance...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u235	I agree perfectly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u236	... by taking a different look at the institutions and their staff, which, as you say, must be subject to psychological follow-up – they also ask us. In any event, on this subject, we will not legislate by ordinance!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u237	Thank you, Madam Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u238	Mr Luc Geismar has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u239	While the two confinements experienced in 2020 affected all French without exception, they had a special impact on EHPAD residents and their families, as well as on the staff working in these structures. Isolation, lack of social contacts, lack of attractiveness of jobs in the sector, lack of staff: the health crisis has highlighted the difficulties that this sector has been facing for a long time, too long. Lessons need to be learned from what has happened in recent months in order to prepare for legislation, with the bill on old age and autonomy. Indeed, this text will have to provide solutions to improve the situation of EHPADs and to upgrade the trades in the sector. More broadly, it will be necessary to consider the place of these institutions and to find solutions regarding the retention of elderly and fragile people at home. Can you tell us, Madam Minister Delegate, how the health crisis and confinements have affected the reflections on the bill on autonomy and the old age and on the future evolution of the EHPADs, in order to better protect those who reside there, especially in times of health crisis?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u240	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u241	Mr President, if we legislate tomorrow without taking into account the lessons of this health crisis, we would miss an opportunity. As we said, we did not start from nothing, but from reports, observations, full pages of recommendations. However, these documents need to be adapted as the health crisis has, in places, broken down the maps. We have shared one observation: it is necessary to adopt a home-based approach, while modernizing EHPADs and opening them to the outside world, in order to avoid the problems we have talked about throughout this debate – social isolation, which prevails in places, in particular. The building must be taken over; In the cities of tomorrow, the EHPADs will have to be placed in the centre of the towns and cities and not in their vicinity. The institutions themselves must be opened in third places, associations, cultural and sporting activities. I've seen that some have started this turn, which is a big part of the home's trades. We all agree that there is a need to upgrade these professions, strengthen human resources – HR – everywhere and improve territorial mesh, because there are many disparities in the types of dependencies, pricing and valorization of the trades themselves. All these aspects need to be reviewed on the basis of lessons learned from the health crisis. In fact, it has forced institutions to rethink themselves from within, to reflect on the correct way of organising visits, without too much distance to people, in particular. In the law that we are preparing, in the reform that we will lead, in the business plan that we are approaching, all this will be taken into consideration and will enable us to enlighten and support our work.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u242	Mr Sebastien Nadot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u243	The staff involved in the EHPADs did a considerable, off-the-shelf job last year. They have proved in the best of ways the importance of their missions, which would justify a fairer remuneration and all our gratitude to take over the old age – that of others, that of our loved ones and one day perhaps ours. The health crisis has revealed and amplified the systemic organizational crisis affecting EHPADs. If much has already been said today, I would like to share with you the testimony of 78-year-old Juliette in order to draw some lessons for the continuation of the containment of EHPADs, which has lasted since March 2020. Juliette, retired from category C of national education, was able to be welcomed, after a few months of waiting, in an EHPAD managed by the CCAS – communal centre for social action – of Toulouse. Her pension plus her husband's survivor's pension, which died at the end of 2012, allows her to pay her monthly payments. It's a chance, because it avoids putting a financial burden on his loved ones who have had to solve themselves, death in the soul, to see her join a retirement home, the evolution of Alzheimer's disease no longer allowing her to live alone in her home. In the instantity of an exchange, Juliette thinks very well. She said she was rather happy, in the continuity of a quiet life, but she also expressed very clearly the difference between what could be called biological life and biographical life. The most intense, unequivocal moments she's ever seen are those she spent with her five grandchildren. Two live in Paris and haven't seen her since Christmas 2019, when they were used to seeing her every holiday. Three live 500 metres from EHPAD and have seen it only a few hours since March 2020. Everyone agrees that it is important to protect life, but what life are we talking about? The one in our cells? The question is what we live in, how we live in it and with whom. It's not enough to be alive in an EHPAD. Juliette will be vaccinated next week, just a year after Professor Zhang Yongzhen sequencing this new virus – a feat. She has no idea of all these polemics, of all these quarrels. Juliette has always hated the shots, but there she does not hesitate: if she allows her grandsons and granddaughters to see again, she will be very happy.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u244	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u245	Thank you, Member of Parliament, for referring, through Juliette's testimony – if you allow me that familiarity – to the social isolation that some people have suffered, and that has sometimes led to a slip syndrome. You remind us above all that life is not confinement, that the value of social life is sometimes greater than that of health, which we want to preserve. If Juliette was able to access this house, it was because her means allowed her, you say, thus posing, in watermark, the problem of the rest to charge. When we look at the subject, we find that it is a constant concern of the people concerned, but also of their families, who are sometimes torn apart by guilt when they resign themselves to placing their parents in institutions. All this must feed into the reflection that, as you well know, we are leading together. We have re-aligned these trades; We are going to renovate the buildings and adopt a residential approach, in order to reconcile all these issues that are not only sanitary – we must stop considering them just as well – but also societal. Too often, we talk about older people as if they were living out of time, as if they had ended up because they had finished working. You have to talk about it differently, what you have done, and with a lot of elegance. I thank you, therefore, for this testimony, which I deeply understand. I've heard a lot of the same; They lead us to think. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups. – Christine Pires Beaune also applauds]] You also mentioned the glimmer of hope that is the vaccine. Even if we do not talk enough about it in these terms, it is one. The residents of EHPAD who are currently being vaccinated tell us: if they are being vaccinated, it is because they want to see their children again, go out, live. If, in this health crisis and when the vaccine is deployed, we do not hear that, we will miss the exit from the health crisis, which we all need.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u246	The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1128.u247	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one hours: Debate on the deployment of France services houses. The meeting is adjourned.
