ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u1	The next item is the debate on: What national strategy for the next common agricultural policy? The Conference of Presidents decided to organize this debate in two parts: as a first step, we will hear the speakers of the groups and then the Government; We will then proceed to a sequence of questions and answers. Mr Dominique Potier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u2	Mr Minister for Agriculture and Food, the Socialist and Related Group, through me, is pleased to have caused this time of sharing and meeting in the drawing rights that were its own. It has decided to devote a parliamentary debate to the national strategic plan – NHP – in addition to other debates that take place in committee and in this House, because it is an opportunity to dialogue with the executive, and with the various political formations, of our common agricultural policy – CAP – which is one of the major ecological, economic and social stakes of our society. The Socialist and related group is therefore proud to have allowed this space for debate. I note that while other groups, such as the Libertés et Territoires Group and the UDI and Indépendants Group, have themselves caused, last Monday, time for debate on the law for the balance of trade relations in the agricultural and food sector and a healthy, sustainable and accessible diet, known as the EGALIM Act, and again, there is a lack in this area, which has a structural aspect in our French democracy. I continue to envy the German model, which provides for the Chancellor to come to Parliament for all European negotiations to indicate Germany's guidelines before going to negotiate them in Europe. It should be noted that the equivalent of our NHP is the subject of debate between political groups and arbitration in our German neighbours. The minister's proposal is discussed, amended, and it is this proposal, which is the result of a dialogue between the executive and the legislature, which allows for the voice of channels, territories and the general interest. For our part, we are far from it. I have the emotional memory of an information mission led in 2013 by Antoine Herth and Germinal Peiro, who had informed the parliamentary debates; We don't have the equivalent this year, and I regret it. The covid crisis can explain it, but it doesn't explain everything. Commission chairpersons, including President Lescure, have organised debates which will take place at the end of May and allow us to engage with all stakeholders; Moreover, we must welcome this French initiative, which was the public debate on agriculture "imPACtons! which allowed citizens, including in a difficult health period, to debate and propose. But these few hours of debate that we will have together do not replace a validation by the executive and the legislative of the French position in the NHP when we are talking about nearly 9 billion euros that will count in the accounts of each farm, and that it is about the balance of our territories and our society, therefore part of the balance of our planet. I have a second regret to express, but I say it with great respect because you have engaged in a dialogue, including with the oppositions. Stéphane Le Foll, who has been our Minister of Agriculture for five years, with the services of the Directorate General for the Economic and Environmental Performance of Enterprises – DGPE – and the Ministry, had established an exercise that seemed to me to be very good. This was a complete statement of income per asset, per holding, in the various French territories. There were the cereal plains of the Paris basin, the Irish system, the system of polyculture-breeding of the intermediate regions, etc. If you have this document, minister, you have to pass it on. When Stéphane Le Foll was engaged in this terrible exercise that is yours today, that is to say that he received here the left, the right, the centrists, the liberals and the others, he said to them: "You want a billion or 100 million more here? Do you want to move the eco-regimes, the endowments per hectare or the aids coupled in some way? Here is what the consequences would be for each other's income. It was, to say the least, enlightening, and it established a principle of responsibility: we were in charge of recalibrating the incomes of farmers in this country. If we accept that everyone is suffering today, we must also have the intellectual honesty to say that not everyone is suffering in the same way and from the same moment, and that the concern for the distribution of aid, even beyond their ecological and economic efficiency, is a real subject that we must arbitrate as parliamentarians. My first answer, on behalf of the Socialist and Related Group, is first of all that of the process. Can we, like what Stéphane Le Foll had done, produce in a clear, didactic way the elements that inform us about the income of our farmers in the various sectors and regions of France? There is no taboo in this matter, only an exercise of democratic transparency. Why did the Socialist and related group want this debate? Beyond the recriminations of democratic methods which are prerequisites and which will open a discussion which will take place until the summer, it is not too late. As you know, this new CAP, which has been delayed by the elections to the European Parliament and the covid crisis, will be at the heart of a decade that we know is crucial, because it has at least three stakes. First of all, as we have just passed a climate bill, we know that a quarter of climate issues are related to the food and health of soils, their resilience, their ability to capture carbon and preserve ecosystem biodiversity. Our life insurance, biodiversity, and our contribution to the fight against climate change go through agricultural models, and France, the great agricultural country, through its territory, through the knowledge it exports to the world, can participate, as your predecessor Stéphane Le Foll had done with the initiative "4 per 1000" that France pursues, in this account of an agriculture that helps to preserve climate and biodiversity. The second issue is food. With about ten billion people on the planet by 2050, how can we ensure collective food security – I prefer this term to that of food sovereignty – for each other? The Institute of Sustainable Development and International Relations – IDDRI – believes that it is possible if we reconcile fair exchanges – by valuing all the lands of the world, all the peasants of the world, all the ecosystems – and intensive agroecology, provided that we create the infrastructure for exchanges between cities and the countryside in all regions of the world, by establishing solidarity and fair exchanges around the Mediterranean, with Africa in particular, instead of concluding absurd treaties such as the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement, CETA. The third issue is the renewal of generations. During this decade of the common agricultural policy and the NHP we are debating, between one in two and one in three farmers – everything depends on how to count – will leave for a fair retirement that our legislative struggles have helped to improve somewhat. Unrecognized, agroecology, collective safety, and even carbon balance are only literature. We need to take over, we need to share the land. On this point, I fear that the reform proposal that will come before Parliament next week will not be up to the stakes or even presented from the point of view that would be appropriate to win this fight that, as you know, we have been engaged for almost seven years now. I hope that we can imagine what an NHP might be, not to correct all the revenues – which would encourage us to a form of immobilism or balance between each other – but which would ensure sufficient stability for each sector, for each artisan of France's agri-food story, and which is above all a real investment. It is, of course, the challenge of an agroecology of prices, recognised not only by means of labels and signs of quality, but also by a high environmental value (HVE) which, I have said on several occasions in the debates that have brought us together, must be reformed, like the AB label, under penalty of missing the carbon revolution and the stakes of sharing the land, and sharing the value within it. Social and environmental criteria must enrich these two key labels of agroecology engines. We must also take into account agroecology of costs, because we know that the best practices, more efficient and more resilient, are those that will allow us to resist the bad winds. We have to make the bet of investing in group farming. For a few tens of euros, a few handfuls of euros per hectare, we can favour all collective forms of organisation that save production costs even beyond input practices through mechanization, capital sharing, the sharing of knowledge and equipment. Promoting group farming by the CAP is within our reach in eco-regimes. [[Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne and Mrs BénédicteTaurineapplaudent]] Finally, we should encourage, including through aid from the common agricultural policy, as we have fortunately done in the sheep sector, the establishment of associations and producer organisations capable of promoting multi-party and multi-annual contracts between suppliers, manufacturers and processors, since such practices open up horizons that avoid price deterioration. Of course, agri-environmental measures – EAM – and organic farming would require a transfer from the first to the second pillar; We're in favour of it. As an instrument, you have convergence, the transfer from the first to the second pillar and the capping of assets, but you have ruled out this last hypothesis. If we do not open the debate on the redistribution and capping of aid per asset, we will not be able to satisfy the eco-regime measures – in English eco-scheme – that allow investment in a new agricultural economy at the turn of the future markets. That is the meaning of what we are going to debate today: to avoid any immobilism and demagogy, to invest in the transitions of the future.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u3	Mr Antoine Herth has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u4	On the occasion of this debate and the next one to be devoted to the national strategic plan, I think it is useful to recall the context of this exercise. The European Commission declines its policy according to three priorities and asks each Member State to draw up a national strategic plan with nine specific objectives and a cross-cutting objective. I remind them: to ensure the equitable income of farmers, to increase competitiveness, to rebalance power in the food supply chain, to act against climate change, to protect natural resources, to preserve landscapes and biodiversity, to support the renewal of generations, to boost and support the economic development of rural areas, to guarantee the quality of food and health, and finally – this is the cross-cutting objective – to modernise innovation in the context of the digital transition. I note that in the National Assembly we are quite familiar with the subjects at the bottom of the table. Much is said about rural areas, food quality, biodiversity, protection of natural resources and combating climate change. On the other hand, when, for the last time, did our assembly become inflamed on the issues of generation renewal, increased competitiveness – a big word for some – or ways to ensure a fair income for our farmers? I'm looking, I don't see... I also note that France has taken a lead – and that is happy – on a subject since, with the EGALIM law, it has already taken positions on the rebalancing of power in the food chain. So yes, minister, this parliamentary meeting is important because, without an answer on farmers' income, we should not hope to find young people to take over. We would also have to present our beautiful ideas on the maintenance of the rural area and all the missions of preservation of the natural environment that we entrust to them. In this regard, I recommend reading the diagnosis published by the Ministry of Agriculture, which is eloquent. I am also pleased to note that it also includes a specific component for the overseas countries and territories. There is much talk about the income of farmers, expressed as a current income before taxes per unit of agricultural self-employed work (RCAI/UTANS), not to be confused with the wages of a worker, because this figure includes both the remuneration of farmers and that of capital, often the repayment of loans, but it is the only criterion we have. This income is on average 29800 euros per year, but a quarter of the farmers receive less than 8000 euros and another quarter more than 40000 euros. The income of producers of beef, sheep, goats and cereals is between 25000 and 27000 euros. It is necessary to be a pig producer or a wine farmer to hope to exceed 45000 euros – it should be noted that these are the productions least supported by CAP subsidies. For the overseas departments, characterised by the predominance of small farms, the average income is 24000 euros in Martinique, 12000 euros in Guadeloupe and only 6500 euros in Mayotte. The diagnosis points out that prices of agricultural products are subject to market risks, but also to climatic risks. On average, subsidies account for 14% of farm revenues, but 35% for cattle and sheep. As for charges, they increased much faster than prices: by 84% between 2000 and 2018. It is good to remember this figure when we debate taxes and other contributions, were they motivated by environmental causes. Fortunately, farmers have developed new activities such as agrotourism, processing and direct sales as well as energy production. Finally, some major trends are highlighted: the continued concentration of farms; the increase in the phenomenon of subcontracting: the increase in the number of employees, while the number of self-employed assets is decreasing; increasing the risks associated with climate change; increasing price volatility due to trade and geopolitical tensions; the new expectations of consumers – less meat and more products from organic farming – the decline of some rural areas; the difficulty of mastering the technological leap loads of the development of digital and robotics. That, ladies and gentlemen, is some of the things I would like to put to your attention. This excellent working basis provides arguments for the balanced position that you stand for, Mr Minister, in particular with regard to livestock farming, intermediate areas and the question of convergence. The CAP is a powerful tool for supporting our agriculture in the face of all the challenges it faces, but the debate cannot be limited to the distribution of subsidies alone. For me, the big issue is to help our farmers create added value in a territory they maintain and to build a high degree of resilience in the face of the vagaries of their profession. [[Smile]] By grace, let us not add unthinkable upheavals of instability to the chronic uncertainties of our peasants. Like them, we need to know how to register in the long run: this is probably the most difficult exercise in politics – with respect for his speaking time, Mr President!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u5	Mr Grégory Labelle has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u6	I thank you, Minister, for coming to answer the questions that will allow us to clarify the new guidelines for CAP reform following the October 2020 Communication from the Council of the European Union. Many farmers have expressed concern about the practical consequences of the implementation of the national strategic programme. In December 2020, the European Commission transmitted its recommendations to France and the other Member States on the CAP strategic plan. These recommendations remain classic, with four objectives: ensuring food security, strengthening environmental protection, strengthening the socio-economic fabric of rural areas, encouraging knowledge sharing, innovation and digitisation in agriculture and rural areas. Behind these various subjects which seem very technical, the objective of our debate is to enlighten parliamentarians, citizens, but especially farmers who may feel lost in the face of an increasingly bureaucratic tool. I would also like to take this opportunity to ask you about this famous national strategic programme, a symbol of a CAP which, for the first time in 70 years, will be somewhat nationalised, as well as about consequences which could destabilise farmers and the agricultural world. At the European level, first of all: how will France be able to ensure that the strengthening of the transition from a Community logic to a national logic by the NHP will not be to its detriment, in particular because of states with more flexible standards – I am of course thinking of environmental standards. If the European Commission has to give its approval to the NHPs of each Member State, what about monitoring their application? Will we have a control tool, for example in case of obvious unfair competition, and will States that do not fulfil their obligations be punished? At the national level, while I welcome the involvement of the national commission for public debate and the synthesis published by your ministry on 3 April, I am concerned by several elements of this document. More specifically, I wonder whether the governance of the national strategic plan will respect the principle of subsidiarity set out in Article 72(2) of our Constitution, whether local and regional authorities, as full actors of the CAP, will be able to participate in the development of the NHP and whether measures are envisaged to involve them in the conduct of certain parts of the programme. I am also surprised by the answers received from 7409 farmers who were asked to prioritize the specific objectives assigned to the CAP. The two "high priority" elements are the protection of the environment and the fight against climate change; On the other hand, topics as important as the attractiveness of agricultural occupations, the income of actors in the agricultural sector or the revitalization of rural areas would be considered as priorities only. I have had the opportunity to talk to many representatives of the agricultural world in my constituency of the Somme: many are waiting for clarification on the introduction of the eco-regime. Indeed, the third way, with the diversity of assolations, is also too restrictive, since the first proposals of the DGPE do not systematically count as different crops spring crops such as barley, beet or potatoes. Farmers of the Somme with diversified crops fear that these rotations will not be recognized in the context of the eco-regime, which seems to them inconsistent, frustrating and discouraging. If the new CAP is to enshrine the diversity of agriculture, particularly between Northern and Southern Europe, it is necessary for the French strategic plan to recognise that agriculture is just as diverse in our territory and we hope, Minister, that you will be able to take this into account. At the same time, many farmers are apprehensive of new standards developed at European level, while new obligations, such as the obligation not to treat certain areas, reduce their income and are not compensated by additional aid. Many are therefore alarmed at this strengthening of standards while the CAP has been further reduced. So, if the precise share of payments for environmental services is not known, how can they restore fairer competition between the French producer of virtuous practices – I am thinking of a strawberry producer in Matigny, in my department of the Somme – and the Spanish farmer who produces strawberries under a heated greenhouse? More broadly, Minister, can you explain how France wants to improve the competitiveness of its farmers through the NHP and how it will be more effective for actors in the agricultural world?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u7	Mrs Sylvia Pinel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u8	Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the agricultural world is waiting with concern for the latest trade-offs on the common agricultural policy. Indeed, there is uncertainty, both at Community and national level, about the contours of the future CAP, since the details of the common policy which will enter into force in 2023 are still being negotiated in Brussels. On the French side, only a few proposals are known about the national strategic plan. You have detailed the main axes, Minister: food sovereignty, the structuring of sectors in the territories, the quality of products and the agro-ecological transition. These are goals that I agree with. Now it remains to ensure that it is properly developed within the framework of our national strategy. On this point, I still have doubts. Like many agricultural organisations, I regret that the first elements outlined by the Directorate-General for Economic and Environmental Performance have so far been the first pillar of the CAP. In view of the interdependence of the CAP's tools, consultation would have become more readable if the first and second pillars had been jointly presented. I fear that the future CAP will leave more room for transfers between pillars, at the risk of increasing distortions of competition between Member States. My concerns go beyond these architectural issues. They also concern support arrangements. Thus, the new version of coupled aids calls upon me. The project plans to take a significant part of the envelope for ruminant farmers for the benefit of plant proteins, small market gardeners and dairy farms. The first victims will be cattle farms, which could lose nearly 250 million euros to them today. Ovine farms could also suffer the consequences, even though they are very often settled in fragile territories, where their contribution to the maintenance of landscapes and the preservation of biodiversity is indispensable. Is a more balanced distribution of coupled aid being considered so that the emergence of new sectors does not take place at the expense of existing farms? Another area of concern is the introduction of eco-schemes, which will allow between 20 and 30 per cent of direct payments to be conditioned on environmental criteria. The three conditions for access to this aid – the holding of certification, the implementation of agro-ecological management practices and compliance with a percentage of "non-productive" biodiversity-friendly elements – seem too restrictive for some actors. You estimate that 70% of farmers would benefit from eco-regimes. For my part, I consider that they must guide farms in their changes of practice without sanctioning them. At a time when French farmers are faced with conflicting injunctions – a requirement for quality, a reduction in environmental impact, all under a low cost constraint and significant foreign competition – they need a strong and legible accompaniment. This support must in particular be rethought to enable our farmers to cope with climate change. The last episodes of frost that devastated much of our territories, as is the case in my department, have come to remind us of this urgency. Are new risk management arrangements foreseen under CAP 2023-2027? What means will be used to invest in innovation and promote the emergence of varieties resistant to severe colds and drought? Will you step up the support provided under the first pillar, in particular to allow farmers to invest in equipment to cope with climatic hazards while reducing their remaining burden? In addition, can you reassure the farmers about the de minimis rules that will apply to the funds you have just released? Finally, I want to mention two crucial and interrelated points: the remuneration of farmers and the attractiveness of the profession in the eyes of new generations. The French agricultural strategy has not ensured a satisfactory standard of living for our farmers or guaranteed the renewal of generations. The common agricultural policy has a responsibility for this failure, with surface aid promoting the expansion of production structures. In order for these aids to be more targeted towards family farms, it seems to me necessary to revalue the redistributive payment on the first 52 hectares. [[Ms. Michèle Crouzet, Mr. Jimmy PahunetM. PhilippeVigieraplaudent]] The future CAP is designed to bring about structural changes for our agriculture. It is your responsibility, Minister, to ensure that our farmers have a more protective and environmentally friendly national environment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u9	Mrs Bénédicte Taurine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u10	I would like to begin by thanking those who have proposed a discussion on this subject, because I share Dominique Potier's observation of the lack of exchanges on this subject and I support his requests on this point. The CAP is at stake, as it accounts for almost half of farmers' incomes. One of the signals sent by the Ministry of Agriculture seems to indicate that the priority of the national plan would be the financing of climate risk insurance. This may be agreed in a context marked by periods of freezing or drought, but the main challenge is rather the transition to a more resilient model in the face of these hazards, which, in the context of climate change, will multiply. Moreover, the model chosen tends to reinforce with public money the income and profits of insurance, which are private bodies. However, other ways are possible to support farmers. With regard to the redistributive payment, which consists of reallocating part of the first pillar's budget on the first hectares of farms, the Directorate-General for Economic Performance of the Ministry of Agriculture proposes to retain the 10% envelope of direct aid, and even to increase it to 20%, as requested by several trade unions, including the Peasant Confederation and Young Farmers, in order to support and preserve our peasant model. I would have liked to know your opinion, Minister, on the strengthening of the redistributive payment, particularly for the first 52 hectares and, possibly, on the idea of dividing the values into three levels – it would be maximum for the first 10 hectares, intermediate of 10 to 25 hectares and minimum for the 25 to 52 hectares. On the other hand, there is still the question of capping aid. It is catastrophic not to call into question the priority given to surface aid, because it is a very negative signal sent to the whole profession, and it is opposed to a fairer distribution of aid. Could you explain to us why you persist in this refusal to limit aid? A public debate was held in France in January 2021 in order to define the objectives and hierarchy desired by the citizens. It expressed the wish to move from demand to supply, which we believe is very positive. It is good to think about what the French want to eat and how they want their food to be produced. In fact, it is up to the consumer to decide, and it seems logical that the national territory should respond to its needs in the most autonomous way possible. The national public debate has thus revealed a clear demand for acceleration towards the agro-ecological transition of the CAP. Citizens no longer want to have to choose between environment and agriculture. It was in this sense that we had, for example, drafted a bill to limit intensive farms according to the ranking of their environmental impact. As far as the second pillar is concerned, the ecological transition objective is allocated a much too small share of the budget. I also note that inventiveness is at work with regard to eco-regimes, since everything is possible or almost possible. This provision is new and seems to us to be appropriate. You are proposing a scheme which is widely accessible to farmers, but which will not necessarily reward the most virtuous. It also seems necessary to stop or, at the very least, limit beef exports to fattening beyond our borders and, in order to do so, to extend coupled feeding aid to the BFU, or livestock unit, with, why not, an age-related threshold and a ceiling for loading per hectare. This would make it possible to diversify production, e.g. to promote beef farming or to fatten heifers or reform cows, which seems to me to be quite positive. Finally, it seems eminently important that coupled aids have a link with grass. In addition, it is necessary to re-sanctify the ICHN, the compensatory allowance for natural handicaps. All these elements will help to implement a balanced and coherent agricultural model.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u11	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u12	As we debate today the national strategy for the next common agricultural policy, I would not forget the fishermen who, day after day, see Brexit do them more harm. Norman fishing is now dependent on licences needed to access British territorial waters and is the victim of fishing pressure in the Channel by large factory vessels that loot our resources. We need a France that protects its fishermen and artisanal fishing. This is of course also true for all of our agriculture. With regard to the next CAP, it is difficult, Mr Minister, despite your personal commitment, to trust the Government to define an ambitious national strategy when, two years after its adoption and in the midst of a health crisis, we are confronted with the triple failure of the EGALIM law, which has ended up showering the hopes of our farmers – which, moreover, you have somewhat politely acknowledged by showing the limits of this law. Two years later, we see a failure in terms of remunerative prices for our farmers, who are still blackmailed by large-scale distribution and the dumping of foreign products. Two years later, we see a failure in terms of protecting our French know-how. I am of course thinking of Norman milk, which sees its origin, its quality and its know-how disputed by the major industries, for example, – the very ones that negotiate prices at the lowest possible level. I am still thinking of our PDOs – protected labels of origin – cheeses, in Normandy and everywhere in France, whose survival is threatened by nutritional displays such as nutri-score, which give their good points to processed products, at Babybel rather than at Neufchâtel. Two years later, finally, we see a failure in our plates. We know that neither in collective restorations nor in the share of organic farming, the objectives of a more virtuous agriculture and food by 2022 can be achieved, for lack of sufficient resources. This is in addition to the health crisis, which has demonstrated to us in great measure that it is urgent to recover our food sovereignty and that the necessary transformation of our agriculture should leave no one at the edge of the road. It is to be feared – and you know that this concern is now being expressed – that the CAP will not be up to the situation. By 2018, we had learned that its budget would be down. The European Union has preferred to refer its responsibility to the states by demanding a national declination of the CAP, and this declination has the face of a new gadget which, I am afraid, will not settle anything. What will such a tool do if nothing is done to protect the price of milk, our marketers, our meat producers? This new fiscal and regulatory gadget will not end social and environmental dumping in other countries. Let us see, for example, the need for our farms to transform. If we all know here – and you often say so – that it is necessary to change our agricultural practices, for example to replant hedgerows in our Norman or Bourbon prairies – because Jean-Paul Dufrègne would be mad at me not to mention it – or to reduce the share of inputs in our crops, how can we achieve these objectives when only 4% of the current CAP budget is used to accompany agroecological transitions and conversions to organic farming? Farmers who are already unable to afford SMIC will find it difficult to invest in sustainable agriculture if they are not given the means to do so. The question is decisive. In this regard, you said, Minister, that with the future CAP and the introduction of eco-regimes – let's move on to their level of requirement! – some 70% of French farmers are potentially eligible for aid. If it is necessary to encourage new practices, how do you intend to do so without any additional resources? Another area of concern: what will become of the coupled aid granted to certain productions in difficulty with this new CAP? On this point, I fear that you will choose the method of communicating vases, by undressing Paul to clothe James. Our farm is already in arrears and this decision could sign the death sentence on many of our farms. The proposal discussed could lead to a reduction in specific aid for cattle farming from EUR 610 million to EUR 360 million per year, while cattle farmers are already suffering from sub-remunerative prices. On average, a farmer earned 8000 euros in 2020, or less than 700 euros per month: will this new nationalised CAP solve or worsen the problem? It is to be feared that the national strategy will endorse a new rut strategy and, once again, the CAP risks forgetting the essentials: those that make the land live. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and SOC groups]] Mr Minister, I do not doubt your personal commitment, but there is still time for another ambitious policy for our farmers.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u13	Mr. Stéphane Travert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u14	We are in the final line of the negotiation of the future common agricultural policy and I know, Mr Minister, that you are putting all your energy into it to create and strengthen the best possible tools to build a CAP in line with our French and European ambitions. This negotiation is a turning point for our agriculture, because it is one of the places of profound transformation, not only of an economic sector, but also of a form of organization of our society, of organization of many territories and of choice of food – sometimes of choice of crisis or even post-crisis. We must build for today and tomorrow this profound change, build together the transitions, avoiding the Manichean debates, putting a sense of nuance in our reflections, and time. The green deal, which is the European Commission's political priority, is a cross-cutting approach to promoting carbon neutrality. The great European agricultural transition that we all want to achieve towards a more sustainable, resilient agriculture that serves our French food sovereignty must be accompanied by a common agricultural policy with common and ambitious objectives. I would like to welcome, Mr Minister, your energetic action and that of the President of the Republic, who, after a difficult negotiation, made it possible to have a comprehensive budget that was equally ambitious, while the initial budget proposal was falling significantly and unacceptable to France. This revised, corrected and stabilized budget in July 2020 allowed us to define guidelines, solid priorities to accompany our farmers, our sectors and our territories. I want to remind you of some of the key principles and issues before us. As you know, it will be necessary to define relevant economic support, which will enable the structuring of the sectors to be accompanied by adequate exploitation of production on the various markets. I also note that agriculture provides multiple solutions that are essential to our response to the major climate challenges we face. The CAP must evolve in order to make better use of the services that farmers give us with simple and incentive tools. I still consider the support and transformation of the production lines, taking into account their diversity and their specificities. I want to stress, if it is still necessary, the major challenge of risk management and the resilience of systems to be integrated into our thinking to keep women and men engaged in agriculture in all our territories. One of our objectives is, as we all recognize, the simplification of the CAP, which must not be a policy of over-administration, but must be readable and understood by all – by its beneficiaries as well as by all European citizens. The CAP is a real economic tool for creating added value. Another objective is risk reduction, with preventive means, while improving our environmental impact and combating climate change. Expectations are strong in this area after the climatic hazards we have experienced recently – the freezing and, at present, the drought that is coming back in many of our territories. We have identified economic, environmental and climate challenges that require comprehensive responses. I know, Minister, that you want to be part of this virtuous circle that pushes each Member State to move forward. This is the difficulty we are currently facing: how can we find, with our farmers and their representatives, the right balance between common objectives, specific objectives, global models, local models, generalized arrangements and territorialised measures? We must also value our different forms of agriculture, their respective strengths and their specificities, and maintain overall coherence with our common objectives, both economic and environmental. You have launched, Mr. Minister, an unprecedented consultation exercise with stakeholders on the "objectives" part and the actions of the national strategic plan, calling on each other, in a responsible manner, to give their priorities. We welcome this method of work, which is based on consultation and which allows in full transparency to share the impacts of the various possible solutions that will allow you to make your arbitrations in a clear political vision: this is what you call the open book principle. You have already pointed out that there would be no massive transfers between the territories, as had been the case in previous reforms. With regard to the first pillar, the issue of eco-scheme is essential: an eco-scheme system will have to be put in place which, while supporting the agro-ecological transition, remains inclusive and accessible. Indeed, the door of this device must be open to as many people as possible, whether to access the basic eco-regime or to progress to a higher level of the device. The eco-regime must also recognise the farms already engaged in the agro-ecological transition. Perhaps it will be necessary to integrate new practices such as precision farming and soil conservation agriculture, but also to support collective investment. We can start thinking today. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I will end by reminding the minister that the work is vast to change the common agricultural policy. To be effective, France must speak with one voice. The CAP is a powerful instrument in the service of inclusive growth, and so we must collectively stay on course until an ambitious proposal is reached, regardless of the difficulties to be overcome: Minister, we will be with you and behind you to meet the challenge, in the name of the success of French agriculture and our territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u15	Mr Julien Dive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u16	Before every new negotiation of the common agricultural policy, the speeches always take the same tone: these negotiations are essential, it is about saving our agriculture, we are facing the operation of the last chance for our agriculture. Today, more than ever, this tone has meaning; Today, more than ever, the decline of the next CAP will be decisive, as it will be part of a historical context marked by a global health crisis whose economic and social consequences are no longer to be demonstrated. The ecological, environmental and climate crisis now leaves us no other option: we must accompany and accelerate the agricultural transition, but also better prevent the climatic hazards that may affect farmers, such as the freezing episode in 2021, the yellow beet in 2020, or the drought in 2017. The health crisis has highlighted a key issue: the absolute need for our food sovereignty. Our country has the chance to have women and men farmers, who have shown infallible courage and determination to feed the French throughout the various confinements, even though, a few months before the start of the crisis, agribashing had become the favourite sport for some commentators – remember. The multiple-faced crises that threaten French agriculture must push the public authorities to support and protect this opportunity further. This must be the objective of our national strategy for CAP 2023, which must be France's voice in these negotiations. When the founding fathers of the CAP drafted it in 1957, they included among the objectives the need "to ensure an equitable standard of living for the agricultural population" or "to guarantee security of supply". Sixty years later, we are still there: farmers' incomes, food sovereignty. How can we guarantee this sovereignty if the rules apply differently in the Member States, creating distortions of competition within the Union? How can we guarantee income if the criteria for eligibility for CAP aid are tightened? I come from the Hauts-de-France region, Mr Minister, a region where, over the last fifteen years, farmers in Aisne, Somme and Pas-de-Calais have already made a major contribution, as CAP aid was reduced by transfers from the first to the second pillar: they now need stability – simply stability: they do not even ask for a return! Farmers in field crops, on which our agri-food industry is heavily dependent, sometimes in the middle zone, are concerned about coupled aids, the eco-regime scheme and the new NHP-PAC scheme. Coupled aid must evolve, whether in terms of its amount or its modalities. But this development must take into account the economic structure of the sectors and their contribution to our goal of food sovereignty. With regard to eco-regimes, we understood that this was a tool to enable us to complete the agro-ecological transition. But they must also be an opportunity to accompany all actors, not to divide farmers among themselves, as some do sometimes by opposing the organic certification or the HVE label. They must also take into account national labels or productions under SIQO – signs of identification of quality and origin – whose specifications are already very strict. The criteria for eligibility for the eco-scheme which will be adopted must take account of the diversity of agriculture, but also of our territories: let us not create a two-tier national strategic plan of the CAP which, on the one hand, would reward those who have already embarked on the transition and, on the other, would sanction those who, for various reasons, have not yet done so, by reducing CAP aid. Finally, a few days ago, France as a whole, from the north to the south, was hit by a cold wave that affected all the crops – vineyards, orchards, beets, rapeseed – some of which have ruined the entire season. Covered mainly by the CAP, the crop insurance base contract offers minimalist coverage and remains inoperative. The share of farmers who buy this type of insurance remains largely in the minority, for a number of reasons that I do not have time to go further. In any case, the new CAP cannot miss out on the risk management issue: can you tell us your ways of working on the current CAP tools for precautionary savings or ISR – an instrument to stabilize income? [[Mr. Vincent Rolland applauds]] French agriculture is heterogeneous: it affects different territories, different soils, different spaces, different women and men, anchored in these territories. Parliamentarians are the representatives, the spokespersons for agricultural diversity: it is therefore a great pity that we are not systematically involved in the preparation and arbitration of the CAP's national strategic plan as a stakeholder, and that it took initiatives like this to discuss them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u17	Mr Philippe Vigier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u18	When we talk about agriculture, we talk about the territories of France that we all love and whose voice we are, about the wealth that farmers embody through their courage and dedication. These first of all, minister, we must not forget them: during the crisis of the covid, they were always present, in parallel with the caregivers, and it did not happen one day without their professional activity. In my personal capacity, I would like to begin by commending your commitment: the majority of agriculture ministers have shown this, but you will leave an important image in French agriculture, Minister. We know that the discussions are difficult, that in Brussels there are many complexities, but there are times when we must not let go, since it is – everyone has understood it well and Julien Dive has said it right now – a factor of independence. How can we not want to be self-sufficient in food security? It is about the life of our territories: do we imagine a France without farmers? It is also a question of being able to meet the various challenges: that of innovation, that of ecological transition and, quite simply, the human challenge, because it is necessary to allow our farmers to live with dignity the product of their work. The new CAP creates many questions. I also note that those who are opposed to the common agricultural policy are not here:...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u19	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u20	... we often talk about Europe, but there are meetings that should not be missed, since we have been talking about major elements of political life and the life of our country for more than sixty years. I therefore regret that those who talk to us all the time about the defence of agriculture and rural life are absent from the debate: I say this without political aggression, but with conviction, because it is an important subject for me. The second point I would like to stress, Mr Minister, which has already been mentioned by the previous speakers, is the multiplicity of crises. In my Beauce territory, where beet is grown, I can assure you that restructuring is not a small subject! Neonicotinoids have not been a little adventure either – and I see that Stéphane Travert nods his head. I could also talk to you about the floods, or the dogmatism with which some – who were sitting on the bench a few years ago in your place – have addressed the topic of collinary deductions: I had pointed out to them that we had to create them, and today we still don't have them. However, it is the same people who tell us that tomorrow, the use of water on farms will have to be increasingly monitored. But as we approach the last straight line, we must remove the remaining questions. First of all, in order to have the chance to pilot a start-up village for agriculture, I can assure you that absolutely exceptional innovations, especially in the digital field, are conceived and designed by men and women who know how to challenge themselves at all times, and that these innovations offer extraordinary margins of progress. It's one of the prides of our country. On the other hand, with regard to compliance controls in the Member States, on which you are discussing with your colleagues, we must be certain, Mr Minister, that they will be applied everywhere in the same way. This has already been recalled to you by a previous speaker, but I repeat it all the more readily since a few years ago, when I was special rapporteur on food security appropriations, I had opened some containers in Le Havre, which allowed me to see that the productions from some European countries were not entirely in line with what could be expected. So we really need to make sure that the controls are applied. In the case of young farmers, will new arrangements allow for compensation per hectare, not for the assets? This is an extraordinarily important element, because the presence of ever larger farms at the expense of "in a way" farms is a loss of substance for our agriculture, and I wanted to emphasize that. It will also be necessary to give their place to the famous eco-regimes, which are naturally supported by environmental programmes, and to report without dogmatism, Minister, on the important difficulties encountered by certain fields of field crops. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group]] Finally, I cannot finish my remarks without reminding you of the need to call on the territories: you have launched ambitious programs, territorial food projects, and we will see which communities play the game. What will be the role of the regions? They manage European funds and are able to create highly structured agricultural sector projects; they are therefore a considerable lever. These issues are before us, and you can be assured, Minister, of our solidarity: together, we must reassure farmers about this formidable profession, regenerate its attractiveness for young people and avoid the realization of AgroParisTech's conclusions, so reserved on the environmental objectives set. I imagine you'll be able to remove the obstacles.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u21	The next speaker is the Minister for Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u22	The debate which brings us together this afternoon is of the utmost importance: to discuss a policy as structuring as the common agricultural policy is obviously essential, but at the same time as our country and the rest of Europe are going through, as several of you have pointed out, this is of even greater importance for our country, since it is at stake both food sovereignty, the development of our territories, environmental issues, but also women and men who have been working tirelessly since the first day of the covid crisis to feed the people of France. You have collectively paid tribute to them, and I thank you for that, because it is extremely important. First of all, let us recall the context in which this debate on the CAP is taking place: it is obviously European and, as Minister Stéphane Travert pointed out, marked by the will of some within Europe to make the common agricultural policy a kind of adjustment variable for the benefit of other European policies.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u23	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u24	In October 2018, the European Commission's first proposal provided for a significant reduction in the budgets of the common agricultural policy. It was France and its President of the Republic who really returned the table – because that is what it was about – in July 2020, allowing an upward revision of the amounts allocated to the common agricultural policy and thus avoiding it being an adjustment variable. [[Mrs StellaDupontetMarie-ChristineVerdier-Jouclasapplaudent]] This has enabled us to secure a CAP budget that is roughly similar to what we know today, about EUR 9.5 billion a year. This was not gained in advance, and when we see the difficulties we are facing today, I let you imagine what they would have been if the budget we are discussing this afternoon was not EUR 9.5 billion, but 10%, 15% or 20% less. [[Same movements]] The second element of context is, of course, the political framework within which the common agricultural policy is based. This framework, which has been discussed at length between European agriculture ministers, has led to decisions on, inter alia, the aims of the common agricultural policy, but also on eco-regime. France had set itself a very important red line: eco-regimes, which are ultimately the vector of the agro-ecological transition, must be compulsory for all Member States, without the possibility of derogation. It is about putting an end to unfair competition – which many of you have stressed – not only with products from imports, but also with products from the common market, coming from other European countries. The basis of the eco-regime, its mandatory nature and the impossibility of derogation make it one of the first elements – but not the only one, the road will still be long – favouring a convergence of all standards. There is nothing more exhausting than to produce beautiful products according to different standards within the same common market. The last element of context, finally, is that the discussions are still under way. The trialogue is not finalized, although some progress has already been made. I would like to highlight two of them, which are very important to me. The first is the introduction into the common agricultural policy of a right to error, which will profoundly alter certain behaviour in the context of the application of the common agricultural policy.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u25	That's for sure!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u26	Several of you have regularly asked me, e.g. by sending me letters...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u27	Besides, you didn't answer me!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u28	...explaining to me the situation of young farmers who, despite their efforts, had to repay the aid they had received from the CAP after the hazards of life had placed them in an impossibility of meeting one of the criteria.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u29	It happens every day!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u30	So far, the CAP has not been able to deal with this type of situation, and the introduction of the right to error will finally change things. Another step forward is the extension of authorisations for wine and wine plantations from 2030 to 2045, in response to a strong demand from France. Finally, other subjects are still under negotiation, such as the share of eco-regime – will it be 20, 25 or 30%? – or as certain conditionalities, including crop rotation. In response to the comments of Members Grégory Labille and Philippe Vigier, I believe that the policies defined by the national strategic plans should not be national, but converge: I fight every day at European level for these plans to be discussed and signed by the Council of European Ministers, because these documents are purely political. What schedule do we put in? National strategic plans must be finalised at European level before the end of the year. This means, for France, that we must finish the first version before discussion at European level by this summer. We must therefore, in the next few weeks, complete the ongoing consultations and consultations. Many have already taken place. As MP Potier pointed out, for example, a major public debate has been initiated. No fewer than 1083 questions were asked by the citizens and we answered each of them. Several of you also mentioned the agricultural diagnostic exercise. Of course, there are also consultations with professional organisations and representatives of civil society – both on the first and on the second pillar, Mrs Pinel: discussions on the second have started well. The aim is to find the right balance during these consultations and consultations which – as has been pointed out – must also include the regions. Indeed, since the enactment of the law on various provisions to adapt to the European Union's economic and financial law, known as the DDADE, which you have adopted, part of the second pillar, including non-superfacial aid, will now be managed entirely by the regions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u31	We have to wait until June!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u32	Following ongoing consultations and consultations, I will have the heavy task of arbitrating the overall architecture of the national strategic plan. Four main pillars must guide the arbitrations that I will make infine. The first has been mentioned by several of you, in particular Mr Julien Dive: the common agricultural policy must ensure the income of farmers, which means that it must be geared towards production. It is essential to stress this. This raises many key questions, particularly as regards the scale of aid provided through the first pillar, and this explains why I have repeatedly expressed my opposition to transfers from one territory to another, from one region to another or from one production to another, such as those which took place under the last two CAPs. The second pillar that guides me is food sovereignty, which many of you have mentioned. You won't be surprised, for I've been saying it since I was appointed minister. My predecessors had also made it a strong line of action, Philippe Vigier stressed. Various types of production must be involved, such as vegetable proteins. Sovereignty raises the question of the structuring of the sectors, mentioned by Dominique Potier, as well as that of innovation, which is absolutely essential. The third pillar is, of course, the support – a very important word – of farmers in agroecological transitions. This is the challenge that the eco-regime must address, which must be inclusive and not exclusive.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u33	Inclusive or harmless?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u34	He must accompany the transitions, without leaving. It's essential. Finally, the fourth pillar is the specificity of the different territories, whether they are mountain, plain or overseas. Faced with particular constraints, bearing singular characteristics, they make the richness of our agriculture. Let us always bear in mind that our French agriculture is deeply marked by its diversity, which makes it a quality agriculture. The quality of agricultural products is the key word, because it determines the quality of food that our fellow citizens consume. Beyond the debates we will have this afternoon, there are three other issues that intersect with the issues of the common agricultural policy and must inspire the CAP that we are defending. First of all, there is the EQUALIM law. Led by the then minister Stéphane Travert and by Parliament, it has made progress, but we must now go further. For this reason, proposals for texts were tabled, notably by Member Grégory Besson-Moreau, following the fact-finding mission chaired by Thierry Benoit; We discussed it a lot at the beginning of the week. [[Sébastien Jumel applauds]] The second issue is justice in trade. This is an essential subject, as Mr President-in-Office has pointed out. Potier, Dufrègne and Jumel. There is now a form of hypocrisy to want to speed up agroecological transitions within a common market while continuing to import products that do not comply with our standards. For a simple reason: European means of protection are themselves, by their nature, hypocritical. Thus, in order to ban an import product, it must present the risk of affecting the health of our consumers or the environment of European territory – meaning "far from our eyes, far from our consciences. Today, importing Brazilian soybeans is importing deforestation. What needs to be changed is not the rules of free trade agreements, because a foundation is obviously needed – which is why we are opposed to an agreement with Mercosur. We must go beyond the question of tariffs and ask ourselves about trade rules beyond Europe, at the WTO level, that is, on the question of mirror clauses. I made it France's agricultural priority during the French Presidency of the European Union. Finally, the third issue is crop insurance, which completely interferes with the CAP, and whose tragic events of the last few weeks have reminded us of the importance. However, I am convinced that the agricultural world alone will not be able to finance it:...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u35	That's for sure!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u36	[[Applause on the banks of the LaREM groups,DemetAgir ens.– Mr VincentRollandapplauditedalso]] ...it is not with the CAP or with the CAP's national budgets that we will be able to take charge of it. Climate risk is such that we absolutely need to reinvent the model of crop insurance and the agricultural calamity regime by accompanying the agricultural world in the face of the hazards of climate change. Again, it is a matter of sovereignty: consider that 50% of French farmers will retire within the next five to seven years. But it takes a lot of courage to settle down with a sword of Damocles above your head! Farmers are driven by a great passion, but it must not overshadow the issues of remuneration and safety.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u37	At the request of the Minister, the sitting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u38	The meeting was resumed. We come to the questions. I would like to point out that both the duration and the duration of the replies are limited to two minutes, without the right to reply. Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u39	At a time when the negotiations on the next common agricultural policy 2021-2027 are under way and when the amount is consolidated – as you have pointed out, Minister – the challenges for French agriculture have never been so numerous. The foreseeable consequences of Brexit have been compounded by those of the health crisis. More than ever, France's strategy under the CAP must be to ensure its food sovereignty. Many farms are now at risk. Several thousand jobs are likely to disappear, especially in mountain areas, and with them part of rural life and its economic model. According to INSEE, France has already lost two thirds of its farmers in 60 years. We therefore have a responsibility to stop the hemorrhage, to establish our food sovereignty and to support the most sustainable productions. To this end, France will have to ensure that farmers retain the combined aid of the first pillar of the CAP, and that the compensatory allowance for natural handicaps benefits mountain farming specifically – for which I recall that it was originally planned – in order to compensate for the additional costs of farms and to strengthen the installation of young farmers. This is particularly important for dairy production, one of the most important agricultural products in mountain areas. It is in fact experiencing a certain decline and is likely to disappear, leading to the impoverishment of these territories. It is therefore essential to build a CAP for these living territories and to rethink a system of fair aid by reintegrating the forgotten ones of the CAP. Finally, the new CAP will also have to take into account the needs of small farmers, farmers, marketers and all the small structures that have so far been kept away from the debates. The challenges are too great for this CAP to leave them on the edge of the road. Minister, how can you still weigh in the negotiations to guarantee our country's food sovereignty? How can each farmer be given the necessary aid and thus avoid the relegation of many territories? Of course, I couldn't help but draw your attention to mountain farming.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u40	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u41	Mrs Battistel, the answer I will give you will be worth all the other questions. The first challenge before us was the consolidation of the CAP budget and we noted it: it was a victory for France, and especially for the President of the Republic, because it was he, in the discussion that was conducted at the level of the Heads of State and Government, who made it possible to raise this budget very significantly so that it was little or no more stabilized – I put aside the debates on current euros and constant euros. The question is then that of the distribution: putting more somewhere involves putting less on the other side, it is the great difficulty of the exercise. I am pretty sure that in the debates this afternoon, some will say that we need to put more here, others more there. But where to put less? You will, of course, tell me that this is my responsibility because it is up to me to make the final arbitrations. The elements you mentioned, Mrs Battistel, make this exercise even more complex. The CAP is based on two pillars, and ICHN is one of the central elements of the second. Under the new CAP, if the State wishes to maintain the current levels of the budget corresponding to this allowance, in particular to allow for transitions through agri-environmental measures and measures for organic farming, it will have to provide an additional EUR 140 million per year for five years. I will let you imagine what is at stake in this additional budgetary effort for our agriculture, if the second pillar is maintained, which we hope, of course. As far as milk production is concerned, I would not like to sink a corner among your colleagues in the GDR Group. I would stress only the differences between Mr Jumel and Mr Dufrègne, one calling for strong support for dairy farming and the other for breastfeeding.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u42	I mentioned both of them!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u43	I know your roots, Congressman. It must be borne in mind that coupled aid cannot exceed 15% of the total envelope of the first pillar. To give more to one is to take to the other.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u44	Yes, undress Paul to dress James!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u45	But we'll have an opportunity to talk about it again.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u46	I call on everyone to respect their speaking time, because we have two more debates on this Wednesday's agenda. Mr Luc Lamirault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u47	Farmers have always been able to adapt to societal changes and the introduction of eco-regime is both a challenge and a high risk to their incomes. My last intervention concerned rather the herdsmen, and today's one will focus on plain farming. Despite the efforts to open it to all, eco-regime is subject to three conditions of access that worry those who feed us. Alerted by farmers in my department on this subject, I share their questions. Based on the CAP 2020 declarations of the Departmental Directorate of Eure-et-Loir, almost 70% of our farmers would be excluded from the eco-scheme premium for crop diversity. For the vast majority, only "biodiversity and agricultural landscape" or "certification" options would give them the opportunity to obtain the premium. Here too, walking is relatively important. The first option would be to transform 10% of the agricultural area into an agro-ecological infrastructure (AEI) area. To do so, the only solution for most of them would be to leave some land fallow, which would result in a reduction in their arable land and therefore in their income and would affect our food sovereignty. For me, set-aside is synonymous with decline, and I do not think it appropriate to combine ecology and decay. If the decline in production seems understandable to me when it is the result of better use of plant protection products, it is not acceptable in the context of a reduction in the area under cultivation. The second option, known as certification, could lead to an influx of organic and high environmental value (HVE) productions at level 3, resulting in a decline in prices. That is not acceptable. Access to eco-regime must also be possible through certification procedures based on the level of guarantees provided.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u48	Thank you for closing, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u49	It therefore seems desirable to create a specific intermediate certification. We all wish eco-regime great success. This requires that our farmers get a fair return. It is therefore important to avoid the creation of fallow areas and to put in place appropriate certifications.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u50	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u51	I repeat, Mr President, eco-regime must be inclusive, which means that it must be accessible. However, when the new CAP is finalised, we cannot expect that 100% of farmers will already be eligible for this eco-scheme, otherwise it would mean that no change is required. This would be a bad service to the agricultural world, because we can be sure that if this were the case, the national strategic plan drawn up by France would be rejected at European level by my peers – and I would be the first to understand it, since I myself am ensuring that each country makes the same efforts to avoid unfair competition within the common market. I would no longer have any legitimacy to demand anything from the other Member States. The question is what work can be done by farmers. This refers to the whole structure of the eco-regime, on which consultation and consultation are under way. I know that figures have been circulated; Some are wrong. For plain farming, it was said that only 25% of farmers would be eligible for eco-regime. That's totally wrong! It would be contrary to my vision of this eco-regime: inclusive, it must allow everyone to make the necessary efforts. There are three ways, as you pointed out: the first is the diversification of crops; The second is certification – work is underway on creating a level 2+ environmental certification (HVE2+); the third is on agri-environmental infrastructure. The devil in the details, we are in the process of discussing these different paths with representatives of the profession, with the territories, whose opinion is very important if we are to ensure that this accessibility is real and not a mere speech effect.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u52	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u53	My question is very similar to that of my colleague Lamirault, as the agricultural problems of the Loir-et-Cher differ little from those of the Eure-et-Loir. The discussion is about the clarifications you have to make about eco-regimes. I know you put the second degree certification on the table. All at stake is to ensure that a minimum number of farmers – we come back to the figures – in the Centre-Val de Loire region, a zone of intermediate crops, are severely affected by this new CAP regime. [[Mr. Philippe Vigier applauds]] Of course, we understand the argument that, at constant perimeters, giving more to some is taking away from others, but what is at stake is the whole balance of the agricultural model of these intermediate zones. The Centre-Val de Loire region, which is one of the first regions of French grain production, a diversified production which is also intended to feed not only the French population, but also part of the world population. This model of the medium-scale agricultural farm must be defended, because, as you know very well, Mr Minister, large entities, which are not really agricultural in nature, are now receiving CAP aid which is in some way diverted from their original objectives.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u54	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u55	I would like to make a parallel to make clear what eco-regime is. You need to have in mind certain elements, ladies and gentlemen, I say this especially for all those – some of them are not there, as you stressed, Mr Vigier – who say that agroecology is not strong enough or that the transitions envisaged are not real. The eco-scheme will consist of levying 20%, 25% or 30% – the final rate is not yet established – of farmers' remuneration under the first pillar and paying them that share only if they make agro-ecological transitions. Imagine, ladies and gentlemen, that President Ferrand will come and explain to you that 25% of your allowances will be paid and that this quarter will only be returned to you if, during the five years of your term, you change your behaviour.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u56	That'd be good!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u57	In fact, ladies and gentlemen, can you tell us which of your daily behaviors you have changed since the beginning of the legislature as part of the ecological transition? In particular, I am addressing those who are constantly criticising the agricultural world.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u58	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u59	I do the Dieppe market every Saturday!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u60	[[Applause on the benches of the LR and IDU-I groups]] I'm questioning them. I did not submit this proposal to President Ferrand, but you know how close I am to him: I will do so very soon. It is essential that this eco-scheme be inclusive. All the figures are not yet consolidated, Mr President, but at the present stage of the discussions, I can give you the following calculations for the Loir-et-Cher department: 49% of farmers are already at the maximum level, in large-scale cultivation; 21% are at the intermediate level; 15% are just below. In a department such as Loir-et-Cher, accessibility to eco-regime is perhaps easier than in the Eure-et-Loir department. It's not necessarily intuitive, but it is at the moment I'm talking to you. All these modalities will evolve, but be assured of my willingness to make the eco-regime inclusive.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u61	Thank you, Minister, we have taken note of your proposal. Mrs Jennifer De Temmerman has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u62	My speech will mark a slight change of tone. In the progress report of the National Public Debate Commission, published last year, the three themes most popular among participants are climate change issues, sustainable management of natural resources and biodiversity protection. The Council of European Ministers of Agriculture and Fisheries has set up eco-schemes to meet the demands for ecological transition. I wonder, however, what they understand. You have spoken out in favour of a rise in high environmental value. However, several studies, including the most recent one published in March by IDDRI, conclude that HVE's terms of reference cannot accompany a real agroecological transition in the current state. The researchers are calling for the removal of Track B for access to certification. Indeed, statistics show that large farms such as viticulture and market gardening can obtain certification without any improvement in their environmental performance. They also called for a revision of the criteria and indicators selected for Track A, which were considered too broad. Another problem is the development of organic farming. I welcome the increase in conversion aid over the period 2014-2020, but regret that we have no visibility on the development of the areas to be devoted to it in the future. The EGALIM law, supported by the climate law, provides for the collective restoration of meals comprising at least 50% of quality and sustainable products, of which at least 20% are organically grown by 1 January 2022. As a former school catering manager, I know that arbitration is difficult if the territorial supply is insufficient, especially for bio. Minister, are you considering reviewing the criteria for high environmental value? What changes do you expect in organic farming, whether in terms of areas or jobs? What do you think about the submission of a Government report to Parliament on these matters? As for your proposal concerning parliamentarians, I believe that all those who defend agroecology are ready to adhere to it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u63	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u64	You are referring to the issue of high environmental value and quality. As far as the first is concerned, we have already had the opportunity to discuss it in this House: I believe, like Mr Dive, that it would be a fundamental mistake to oppose HVE and bio, even if they are different certifications and farming methods. In fact, the opponents of HVE often come from the organic world, and vice versa. It's a fratricidal war that doesn't make any sense. We must support both and do it massively. We must continue to review the criteria for obtaining HVE certification, since it is quite recent – it is five to six years old. We have opened up, as part of the Ecophyto plan, the revision of some of these criteria to make it evolve. We support this certification and I welcome the action of the presidential majority, which voted for the introduction of an HVE tax credit, which has been in force since 1 January this year. As far as organic farming is concerned, we will have increased the organic agricultural area in France by 50% by the end of the quinquennium. Of course, some believe that this is not enough, but we are still talking about a 50% increase! Within the framework of the common agricultural policy, it is up to us to clarify our organic ambition by 2027 and the related financing elements. This falls under the second pillar. I can only tell you again what I said to Mrs Battistel: in order to maintain the second pillar and defend our ambitions, the state will have to abound the CAP budget by EUR 140 million a year, in addition to the EUR 9.5 billion I mentioned.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u65	That's a third of the ISR!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u66	Mrs Bénédicte Taurine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u67	The European Commission has included a list of objectives for the future of the CAP, the implementation of which depends on the national strategic plan of each Member State. They include, for example, supporting the adaptation of agriculture to climate change, reducing the use of pesticides or promoting sustainable forest management. However, we note inconsistencies between these objectives and the political decisions you have taken, such as not banning glyphosate or reintroducing neonicotinoids, rather than reducing the use of pesticides. Another example is how to promote sustainable forest management, when you have rejected an amendment on the ban on clearcuts. The national strategic plan could be an innovative vehicle and could defend strong positions. This would allow you to finance more and support the transition to agroecology. France, the first beneficiary of CAP aid, must set an example for the necessary ecological bifurcation, which meets a strong expectation of our citizens, eager to know what they eat and how food is produced. Minister, you often talk about the import of vegetable proteins such as soya, which contributes to deforestation in South America, a point on which I join you. In considering the draft law on combating climate change and strengthening resilience to its effects, you have referred to the plant protein plan. Could you tell us how you intend to translate this will into the national strategic plan?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u68	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u69	The subject of vegetable proteins is essential to me, because it raises the question of our sovereignty. We depend on imports of soybeans from the American continent. This is the result of decisions taken at the time of the Treaty of Rome, when the United States of America had agreed to the establishment of a common agricultural policy in Europe, provided that it maintained its dependence on American plant proteins. From international discussions to international discussions, dependence has continued and we now need to reverse this trend 60 years later – especially since the notion of sovereignty is added to an environmental issue, with every tonne of soybean imported from Brazil contributing to deforestation. Europe is an essential element: we will be all the stronger as we defend these issues at European level and not only at national level, including in bodies other than the agricultural sector – I am thinking of the trade and the strong position of France in favour of a no to Mercosur, precisely for the issues I have just mentioned.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u70	You've evolved on Mercosur!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u71	In addition, under the common agricultural policy, there is a percentage of coupled aid which is dedicated to plant protein crops. France must also define a protein strategy of its own. As part of the France Recovery Plan, we are investing EUR 100 million to structure and support the various sectors, both livestock and field crops, towards the development of proteins. This is the triptych we are defending to achieve this true protein ambition.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u72	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u73	The common agricultural policy is about to enter a new phase marked by the national strategic plan. Established for five years – 2023-2027 – it will have to respect the two pillars of the CAP through nine specific objectives and will be presented by France and neighbouring countries to the European Commission next June; the deadline is approaching and the stakes are enormous. I want to address the issue of breastfeeding cattle again. L'Allier, my department, is the second largest producer in France. It seems that the conditions for the allocation and allocation of the coupled aid envelope among breastfeeding farmers are still being considered and even arbitrated. I have a somewhat technical question: what would be the consequences of a shift to UGB-based aid for a fall broiler-type farm and a farm that feeds males and heifers in two to three years, which is a much longer cycle? Whatever the method of distribution, the envelope devoted to this type of breeding should not diminish or slide towards other production which is currently not eligible. On the contrary, it should progress because these breeders usually check the right boxes, as a young breeder from Saône-et-Loire said we had invited Monday night. I quote only the example of lactating cattle, which I know well, but I could also have mentioned the intermediate areas, the maintenance of ICHNs for livestock production, or the productivity ratio of the sheep sector. I am sorry to insist, Minister, but this is the case with the survival of our livestock territories, which are so special, and with the maintenance of an agriculture that respects this rich environment. 700 euros per month on average, this is what the breeders manage to agree to live! Any reduction in CAP aid would further reduce this low income: this would not be acceptable. Finally, you said earlier: where could we give less aid when everyone wants more? Light up, Minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u74	It won't change anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u75	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u76	As far as animal husbandry is concerned, which we shall be discussing again in June in this House, let us recall that the wish of every farmer is to live not by aid from the CAP, but by compensation for his work.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u77	Luckily!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u78	There's still work!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u79	The first challenge is therefore to continue the momentum launched by Minister Travert and yourself with the EGALIM law. In our future discussions, we will need to determine how, beyond the change of mind and the progress made by this legislation, we can fill the current gaps. Indeed, the account is not yet there and the remuneration of "farm yard" is not up to the quality that our breeders produce. This is the priority of priorities. There are two very important topics for breeding. The first concerns the ICHN, as you said, especially in your territory. I repeat, maintaining payments under the ICHN and the other ambitions of the second pillar requires that the nation's budget spend EUR 140 million a year, which is 700 million more than the CAP appropriations. The stakes are high. The second is the subject of coupled nursing cattle aids. My conviction, which is shared by many, including industry professionals, is that the transition to what is called aid to the UGB – you know this by heart – is a good idea. Consultations and consultations now focus on defining the award criteria: loading rates, capping, etc. Discussions with the industry are ongoing.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u80	Mrs Claire Bouchet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u81	The deadline for submission to the European Commission of the national strategic plan for the common agricultural policy is fast approaching. We all know the importance of the CAP for the 450,000 farmers who make France the European Union's largest agricultural power. The reform of the CAP over the period 2023-2027 will radically change the logic of the payment of aid. While this change is inevitable to meet current challenges, particularly environmental ones, it raises many concerns in the peasant world. It is therefore necessary to present a fair and equitable national strategic plan. In order to do so, the concept of a genuine farmer should be better defined. Indeed, coupled aid – which to date accounts for 75% of CAP aid – is allocated almost exclusively according to the area and level of production of the holding. This is why some farmers have not hesitated to declare areas on which they work little in order to inflate their basic payment entitlements (BPDs). Not only does this lead to a bad shift in aid, but it also makes it difficult for young farmers to settle down. It would therefore be preferable to establish a principle of proportionality between the quantity produced and the number of hectares held. In the example of pastoral farming, particularly on all mountain massifs, the introduction of a minimum loading threshold would limit the number of declarable hectares. In the same vein, it is essential to guarantee the full rights to CAP aid exclusively to farmers whose agricultural incomes are higher than non-agricultural incomes. A principle of duty degression could thus be envisaged for those whose main income does not come from their agricultural activity. How do you intend to take advantage of the CAP's new orientation to define eligibility criteria that highlight genuine farmers in order to respond to issues of general interest, which are crucial in our territories?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u82	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u83	You are asking a question that many of you have already raised. We must be very careful, because there are actually two subjects which seem very close to each other, but which have nothing to do with each other: the first concerns the concept of an active farmer and the second concerns the concept of a genuine farmer. Earlier, it was felt by some that the way in which the common agricultural policy should be managed should be moved to an active one. I do not consider that to be in France's interest at the moment when I speak to you. Why? Because there is no European definition of active farmers and because of the structure of employment and wage costs, other European countries have much more assets per hectare than France. What would be the consequence if tomorrow we came to a breakdown of the common agricultural policy calculated on the assets rather than on the hectares? The €9.5 billion available to France would be significantly reduced. Moving to this method of calculation within the framework of the common agricultural policy, even though we have not achieved harmonisation at European level, would be quite contrary to France's interests, which would see its envelope reduced. I would then be in front of you to explain to you that we no longer have 9.5 billion euros to distribute within the agricultural world, but a much lower amount. A harmonised definition of the concept of assets must be pursued at European level. The concept of a genuine farmer, on the other hand, is another subject which leads us to wonder, within our agricultural models, about the characteristics which should make it possible to benefit fully or partially from the common agricultural policy. I am ready to open this debate, because there are still issues to be resolved – it is of particular interest to young farmers. This topic is not included in the financial distribution model and we have not yet considered it. Let us first complete the major strategic choices of this model; We will then deal with this issue.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u84	Mr Loïc Dombreval has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u85	I am speaking on behalf of our colleague Sandrine Le Feur, who is being held on her farm in Finistère. Clause 65 of the Climate and Resilience Bill mentions the compatibility of the national strategic plan with the national low-carbon strategy, but not its compliance with it. Is a referral to the High Climate Council planned, as well as an annual follow-up in the form of an ecological monitoring board, as envisaged for the sectoral orientations of the national low-carbon strategy? On the other hand, environmental certification and HVE reflect an average ambition: it is not necessary to display virtuous practices to obtain it, it is enough to raise to an average level on various criteria. Its inclusion in the French eco-regime leads to a significant risk of greenwashing – or ecological bleaching – at European level, as Member States too could introduce their own environmental certifications into non-uniform specifications at Community level. We may also see a reduction in the funds available for the development of organic farming in France. Are you considering, in spite of these risks – of which you are obviously aware, Minister – to include environmental certification in the eco-regime? Finally, what ambition do you want to give to the structuring of plant protein chains in the next programming?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u86	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u87	I will try to answer these many questions as much as possible. You mention the risk of divergences between the climate and environmental ambitions of the Member States' national strategic plans. It is precisely against this risk that I have fought, working to define a political framework for the CAP that prevents a large number of derogations required by certain Member States – I am thinking, for example, of the desire to freely implement eco-regimes, the foundations of the agro-ecological transition, without defining very precisely the rules that govern them. Last autumn, when we set the policy framework, I fought against the risk of unfair competition between Member States – a risk that we have been facing for years, and against which we absolutely must fight. With the help of partners such as Germany, Italy and Spain, France won. However, we remain vigilant, as these topics are being discussed at the trialogue level: our demands should not be reduced. Trilogues will continue until the end of May. On the other hand, we need to define our ambition for organic farming, which means that we need to provide substantial additional funding under the second pillar of the CAP. As I have already indicated, we will have to contribute to this pillar through a national effort; This will bear witness to our strong ambition, which must give rise to accompaniment. Finally, in my reply to Mrs Taurine, I have already mentioned the three main axes of the protein strategy.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u88	Mr David Lorion has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u89	This week begins the CAP trialogue on subjects specific to the outermost regions. Three issues are of great concern to professionals in the agricultural sectors: the programme of options specific to remoteness and insularity (POSEI), the specific supply regime (RSA) and the extended interprofessional contribution (CIE). In these three areas, the Council's mandate is unfortunately empty. With regard to the POSEI, we share your optimism, Minister: farmers in the overseas departments had been forgotten but have been reinstated – it's fair, it's normal and it's encouraging. On the other hand, the other two areas raise serious concerns. As regards the RSA, freight aid intended to reduce the cost of supply, the Council did not take a position. However, not to raise the ceiling of the RSA in a context of competitive development of local production, it would not only increase the cost of food for local farms – and therefore of locally distributed meat – but also be inconsistent with the remarks made by the President of the Republic during his visit to La Réunion, when he encouraged us to be self-sufficient. Finally, you know as we do, Minister – you have come to Reunion – that the CIE is vital to ensure the local agricultural model. If the Council continues to fight the amendment proposed by Parliament on this subject, it is certain that at the end of the presidential term we will produce fewer eggs, less meat and less milk than at the beginning. Is France ready to obtain from the Council an amendment to its negotiating mandate? Is she ready to accompany the raising of the RSA ceiling? Is she ready to experience the CIE? Is it finally ready, despite the blackmail exerted by the other Member States, in spite of the fact that they have been blackmailed by the other Member States, to accompany their overseas countries in the fight against the CAP?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u90	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u91	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u92	I cannot be more clear: France defends the POSEI, the RSA and the CIE; It was defending them at the time of the Council, and it continues to do so at the time of the trialogue. The POSEI has been the subject of a general mobilisation to ensure that its budget is maintained. I know your involvement in this area, Mr Lorion, and you know how much we fought, at the highest level of the state, to secure the maintenance of POSEI's budgets. We are very vigilant about the proper implementation of this decision. As for the RSA, it is a subceiling of the POSEI – so it is necessary above all to preserve it. The RSA has not been the subject of any mandate, either from Parliament or from the Council: it is therefore not included in the trialogue itself, but we are studying the possibility that it may be. For its part, the CIE is included in the trialogue, and we support this proposal. France does not decide alone – the decision is a matter for the trialogue – but it weighs its weight to defend these subjects. On the occasion of the European Council of Agriculture Ministers, which I attended ten days ago, I once again stressed the priority to be given to the outermost territories – to use European terminology – which are incredibly important to our agricultural power. We are therefore very strongly mobilized – you have seen this in the POSEI, in particular. Be assured that we will remain so.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u93	Mrs Josiane Corneloup has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u94	As a new CAP develops, the first European proposals raise legitimate concerns, and our farmers fear disastrous consequences for their farms in an already devastated context. The farmers in the intermediate areas express their concern about the arbitrations to be carried out by the Ministry of Agriculture and Food; They claim a more fair and balanced CAP 2023-2027. In Burgundy-Franche-Comté, two thirds of the useful agricultural area is classified as an intermediate area with low potential, i.e. about 10000 nursing farms, mostly Charolais. The new eco-regime conditions exclude many farms and could cause them to lose some EUR 80 per hectare. The reduction in aid for these intermediate-area farms, which represent 5000 indirect jobs, would have a very serious impact on the territorial economy. It would be all the more incomprehensible if the agricultural development model in force on our land, at the opposite ends of the "meat factories" in North and South America, fits perfectly into the terms of reference of the new CAP, which promotes a more sustainable and supportive agriculture and food policy. It is therefore essential that the allocation of future CAP subsidies for the years 2023-2027 should not forget the intermediate areas, and that the processing of the beef and veal sector should be accompanied with a view to ensuring a fair income for farmers. A balance must be struck so that as many farmers as possible can benefit from it. It is important to preserve the coupled aid scheme and to ensure that the development of eco-regimes, combined with aid to the livestock unit, does not lead to a decrease in permanent grassland areas. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Similarly, it should be ensured that national strategic plans, under the responsibility of the States, do not lead to distortions of competition within the European internal market. There is no question that agriculture is once again the variable for adjusting the budgetary policy of the European Community. We must do everything possible to ensure that the French agricultural model remains, as it guarantees the food security and autonomy of our country. Mr Minister, can you pledge that CAP 2023 will maintain support for livestock farming in the intermediate zone and support the processing of the beef and veal sector?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u95	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u96	I will not dwell on the distortion of competition, which I have already addressed on several occasions. I have fought for the political framework to make eco-regimes compulsory for all Member States, because I am fighting against distortion of competition in the common market. When France holds the presidency of the European Union, I would like us to defend this position, including outside Europe's borders – I mentioned examples of this earlier. If we want to make a faster transition in France, it is essential to define production standards and make them a standard in the agricultural world and in so-called "trade chains". You fear that the CAP will become the variable for budgetary adjustment of European policies. This is precisely the risk we faced in April 2018, and against which we fought. France has won a great victory in this area: we have made sure that the Commission's proposal of October 2018 is completely reviewed, and that the debate is about budgets that are little or no equivalent to those of today. I repeat, France has fought to ensure that the CAP does not become an adjustment variable but remains a major European political project, as it has been since the Treaty of Rome, and as the founding fathers of Europe wanted. I have defended the intermediate areas since the day of my appointment, considering that they deserve special attention. In the current debates, some argue that redistributive payments should be increased; This would greatly affect the intermediate areas – this is what happened in the last two CAPs, which explains that the average level of basic payment in the intermediate areas is lower than the national average, and even more so than that of our German friends. We must therefore be extremely vigilant. In your department of Saône-et-Loire, Madame Corneloup, the accessibility of eco-regime is real – I can give you the figures. We're taking care of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u97	It would be interesting to have the numbers for all the departments!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u98	Finally, I have already answered the question of breastfeeding.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u99	Mr Philippe Bolo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u100	The future CAP sets a new horizon for French agriculture. Its main novelty lies in the national strategic plan, in which eco-schemes symbolize environmental ambitions. The review of the CAP has aroused interest far beyond farmers alone, whether on the occasion of the public debate ImPACtons!, led by the National Commission for Public Debate (CNDP), or within the many organisations concerned. In these debates, the environmental ambitions displayed were criticized by environmental protection associations on the grounds that they were not at stake: according to them, aid for certain productions must be abolished, as it hinders the transition. Criticism has also been expressed by farmers: they feel environmental demands as a lack of recognition of the efforts made, and expect the new CAP not to exacerbate their difficulties. I would like to stress that farmers are the first victims of environmental and climate damage. They are affected by temperature variations – we have seen during the exceptional episodes of freezing in recent weeks –; they suffer from absences or excess rain; They depend on a biodiversity that, together with pollinating insects, ensures the yield of many crops. They are the most convinced of the need for action, and the most active for the preservation of water, soil, climate and biodiversity. However, this preservation effort requires a creation of value to invest, as any company would do, in the adaptation of means and the evolution of practices. The subject is therefore also that of the competitiveness of the "farm France". This competitiveness, in addition to investments for the environment, must meet the challenges of installation, modernisation and insurance against crop losses. Minister, how will the national strategic plan combine the preservation of the environment with the competitiveness of the "Farm France"? [[Ms. Nadia Essayan applauds]] This equation is complex, but it is also that of our food sovereignty. The epidemic has shown us how crucial this notion of sovereignty is when it comes to managing the shortage of medical devices in another sector.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u101	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u102	Your question is essential and your vision is exactly mine: we need competitive agriculture, production agriculture. At the same time, we need an agriculture whose key word, including DNA, is nutritional quality and environmental quality. This is what makes our agriculture sovereign: that it is both capable of producing in short circuits and exporting. Agriculture must not be opposed: it must all gather around quality. The competitiveness of our agriculture will never be reduced to a competitiveness - cost - it will be above all an out-of-cost competitiveness, and therefore a competitiveness based on quality. For some who like to caricature our agriculture, the size of our farms is much less than the European average, and a fortiori than the international average. [[Marie-Christine Verdier-Jouclas applauds]] This means that a proper balance must be struck within the framework of the common agricultural policy. Having a competitive agriculture, that is production, capable of exporting, presupposes that our farmers get a sufficient income – this is the first pillar. At the same time, the agri-environmental measures taken – which fall under the second pillar – must make it possible to invest massively. However, if the second pillar is strengthened at the expense of the first, the basic income of farmers is reduced. Courage, ambition, is also to assume a certain form of stability between production and quality, a path that you have drawn very well in your question.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u103	Mrs Delphine Bagarry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u104	Wave of frost, drought, loss of soil quality, diseases, epidemics among crops: farmers are the first victims of climate change and none know themselves safe from calamity. Adaptation to climate change requires a shift to agroecology. Because the CAP provides the bulk of farmers' average income and directs their practices, it is a major lever for the expected transition of agricultural and food systems. The policy of small steps towards greening the CAP, which has been carried out so far, is a failure. The European Court of Auditors itself highlighted this in a severe report published in June 2020. The new CAP discussed in Brussels also has limited ambition. By calling on member States to develop a national strategic plan, however, it offers real scope for the Government to accelerate the agro-ecological transition. To switch to conservation agriculture, we need a real ambition, real objectives: we must not make greenwashing, the stakes are too important. The national strategic plan must therefore break with the trend towards enlargement, simplification and intensification. It must bring together the producer and the consumer, rethink the sharing of added value, support the diversification of crops, promote extensive farming, the association of plant and animal production, the valorisation of the maintenance of our meadows, and preserve semi-natural environments. As such, how can we understand the possible inclusion of the highly criticized HVE certification, which could be done at the expense of bio? Can you assure us, Minister, that the national strategy for the next CAP will be truly at the service of the ecological transition? I am well aware of the redundancy of the question, but it shows that it reflects a primary concern.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u105	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u106	[[Marie-Christine Verdier-Jouclas applauds]] [[Marie-Christine Verdier-Jouclas applauds]] I would really like to see an awareness of the part already taken by the agricultural world in the agroecological transition and of the aberration of opposing the environment and agriculture. I repeat, bear in mind that tomorrow, in the framework of the CAP, farmers will be told: you will be paid 25% of your salary, that you will be paid only in return for progress in the agro-ecological transition. I hear here or there those who think it's not enough. I therefore propose that President Ferrand inform Members that they will receive 25% of their compensation, which will only be returned to them if they take agro-ecological measures. Chiche? Well, that's what we're going to do for the agricultural world! I hear the criticisms of those who feel that more should always be done. What are we talking about? The reality is the one I describe. I could even add that all the conditionalities provided for in the last CAP, which covered 30% of the first pillar, will now cover all of them. You also know, I mentioned, what will happen to eco-regimes; In addition, the financing of agri-environmental measures will promote the transition; In addition, we will intensify our efforts on bio strategies or HVE strategies. Despite all this, the current discourse is always to regret that farmers do not do enough, or even do nothing...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u107	What they're doing is huge!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u108	Let's get out of here. Let us consider the facts. Above all, let us stop discouraging all those who fight every day, who listen to us and who say: but what an aberration, since we live from the environment, for God's sake! [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Twenty-five years ago, when I decided to become an agronomist engineer, it was because I had the environment in my body. The first, René Dumont, what was he, if not agronomist? There it is, reality! Let us therefore support our farmers, and let us be proud of what we are doing collectively and collectively.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u109	The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u110	The next item is the questions on the issues of the national strategic plan under the CAP 2021-2027. I would remind you that the Conference of Presidents has set the maximum time limit for each question and answer at two minutes. Mrs Jeanine Dubie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u111	A greener CAP, a fairer CAP, are the key words in the negotiations on the future common agricultural policy for the period 2021-2027. This must be clearly reflected in the future national strategic plan by the recognition and compensation to their fair value of already virtuous mountain farming systems, which are fully in line with this objective. With 50,000 farms spread over one third of French soil, mountain farming accounts for €8.5 billion in revenue each year, $7.2 billion in environmental amenities and 250,000 jobs in the agriculture and agri-food sector. It is also more than 2 million hectares of pastoral land that are valued by more than 35,000 farms. The reform of the 2015 CAP has had a real leverage effect for the development of our territories: that is why the CAP of tomorrow must be in line with that of today. However, the ongoing negotiations within the framework of the national strategic plan are worrying. Farmers and mountain farmers fear that coupled aids targeted at livestock will be called into question, as well as changes in the system for assessing low-production areas by satellite, which could exclude certain pastoral areas. They also wondered about the budget for the compensatory allowance for natural disability (ICHN) in mountain areas. Minister, these are the concerns and questions that the Association nationale des élections de la montagne (ANEM) – of which I am president – and the French agricultural intermassif wanted to express to you at the meeting we asked you last February.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u112	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u113	Despite our many revivals, you have still not responded to this appointment request. [[Mr Jean-PierreVigierapplaudit]] So I have two questions. Will you, in the next few days, give a favourable response to our request? In the meantime, can you assure us that farmers and mountain farmers, key players in our territories, will not be harmed by future national arbitrations?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u114	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u115	The next speaker is the Minister for Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u116	You fail to state that, following the publication of the forum you signed on this subject, we held a meeting at which I received the signatories. I don't think I'm one of those who keeps the door of their office closed; On the contrary, I have always attached great importance to consultation and discussion with parliamentarians, and I am very pleased to continue this discussion. As far as the maintenance of ICHN is concerned, as I have said on several occasions, in addition to what we are doing on the CAP, the State must provide funding of EUR 140 million. The stakes are therefore significant for the territories, and all that this implies in terms of strategic choices is measured. I am one of those who give priority to stabilization in our territories. I come to your specific question about laser remote sensing (LIDAR) from a satellite. I want to reassure you: the current experiment will be discussed to determine what is useful and what is not. To this end, we will take into account, in a collegial manner, returns from the ground to find out what the possible constraints and fears are. While some experiences show that LIDAR is relevant, some are concerned that the data may not correspond to the reality of the field. It is also necessary to move forward calmly, cautiously and in consultation. Finally, I have already answered the question of coupled aid. They are important to the territories. It is necessary to move on to a so-called UGB regime, which is widely discussed. If everyone, including professionals, recognizes its relevance, the devil nests in the details – in this case the sliders, which we are debating.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u117	Mr Jean-Michel Clément has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u118	The final round of discussions on the future CAP and its national declination is under way. Your Ministry has commissioned a study from the Institut national de recherche pour l'agriculture, l'alimentation et l'environnement (INRAE) on the capacity of French agricultural lands, grasslands and forests to combat climate change. A happy initiative that would be a shame to lose sight of the conclusions at the time the national strategic plan is to be drawn up. Indeed, according to this study, if we develop virtuous agricultural and forestry practices, we can store some 8.5 million tonnes of carbon dioxide per year across the French territory, which would make up for 6.6% of our greenhouse gas emissions. These nature-based solutions increase carbon storage through plant photosynthesis. Recent studies show that permanent grasslands – I am thinking in particular of marsh areas – are resilient in this area, as opposed to field crops. The challenge is therefore twofold in the development of the national strategic plan for the CAP: first, to preserve grasslands and wetlands; Then encourage farmers to change their farming practices. When considering a CAP by 2027, the climate dimension cannot be ruled out. The aim is to recognize and encourage virtuous practices whose intermediate areas are already carrying. They are mainly engaged in sheep and cattle farming and must persist. Let us not deprive ourselves of their contribution to the fight against global warming. On the contrary, encourage these practices and we will win on all sides: land use planning, support for beef and sheep production and reduction of the carbon dioxide footprint. [[Bertrand Pancher applauds]] Minister, can you confirm to me that the national strategic plan will take into account this priority that farmers and farmers who will change their practices and territories will benefit from?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u119	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u120	As part of the eco-regime, we are considering the creation of carbon-type certifications. I'm very supportive of it. As far as carbon is concerned, the forest has made, if I may say so, a public buying offer (OPA) on agriculture. If we ask our fellow citizens about where carbon is being collected, most of them will answer us: in the forest. The reality is that after the sea, it is in the soil that we capture the most carbon. This is not valued. In other words, what we have managed to do either in the forest or in agroforestry, including by valuing both the environmental benefit in carbon capture, but also the creation of value for the holder of the forest or the parcel of agroforestry through the mechanisms of carbon credit, we have failed to do so in the agricultural field. For me, however, this is a top priority. We are working on this, beyond the CAP, in general. We are thinking – and this is really one of my ministry's objectives – about structuring the carbon credit sector. We are in the process of defining the supply, i.e. the emission of carbon credits granted as cropping practices for CO capture, such as conservation agriculture. I note, moreover, that while so many heated discussions are raging on glyphosate, no one has really raised in the public debate the role of conservation agriculture in the capture of CO in the soil.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u121	Yes, I do!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u122	We do!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u123	It's essential, though. The second point concerns the creation of demand, i.e. the mobilization of all those – industrialists, energy scientists or others – who might be interested in carbon credits from French agriculture and soil. Finally, the third element relates to the interfaces between supply and demand. On 30 April, under the France Relance plan, we launched the "good carbon diagnosis" scheme, which we have developed with young farmers, to finance the carbon diagnoses of farms. I see it as a fundamental issue: it combines the creation of environmental value with the creation of economic value and shows that farmers are actors in the fight against climate change. It is very important to remind him.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u124	Mr Paul Molac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u125	The development of the new CAP could have a serious impact on livestock farming, with its attendant effects on employment, rural vitality, environmental protection and food sovereignty. The production model of western France is based on a polyculture-breeding system and on medium-sized family farms, the positive externalities of which are well known. However, it is seriously threatened by the low remuneration of livestock, with farmers receiving on average less than EUR 20000 per year. Every day, farmers cease their activities, and their land is too often destined for vegetation: there is a great risk that these spaces will be transformed into areas dedicated solely to cultivation. On the contrary, we want to preserve livestock farming by redirecting it to productions with high added value and low environmental externalities. While the CAP could be an instrument to promote this type of agriculture, the amounts collected by Brittany under the first pillar increased from €571.9 million to €425 million between 2006 and 2019. The last CAP, through the convergence of aid and the elimination of most coupled aid, has led to a significant decline in income. We have been alerted by farmers in our constituencies, who ask that the share of the first pillar of the CAP devoted to the redistributive payment paid for the first fifty-two hectares be increased from 10% to 20%. This measure had been accepted by Stéphane Le Foll, but was never applied. What will be your attitude to this request? Furthermore, since HVE certifications are based primarily on crops, breeding systems are struggling to comply with the requirements associated with the Level 3 certificate. It is therefore proposed to create a level 2 + HVE certification, oriented towards breeding. What is the status of the negotiations and what will your philosophy be about it? [[Bertrand Pancher applauds]] Finally, 56 per cent of farm managers are over 50 years old: over the next 10 years, half of these men and women will have to be renewed. The Young Farmers' Union drew our attention to the need to double the envelopes allocated to young farmers, in order to facilitate their installation and to avoid the phenomena of concentration detrimental to the family model.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u126	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u127	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u128	Your first question is very important, since it concerns redistributive payment. It illustrates all the difficulty of the position that is mine. As a worthy representative of your dear Brittany, you feel that redistributive payments should be increased. Earlier, however, several representatives, no less worthy, of the Burgundy-Franche-Comté region, spoke to recall that farmers in their constituencies had made a major contribution in the framework of the previous CAPs. They even pointed out, I believe, that redistributive payments have contributed significantly to reducing farmers' income, particularly in intermediate areas. Indeed, while the redistributive payment is certainly very favourable to Brittany because of the size of the holdings, it is incredibly unfavourable to other areas, such as the intermediate areas. The last two CAPs have organised massive transfers leading to the allocation of basic payments – the so-called DPB – far below the national average to farmers in intermediate areas, including large-scale farming. The result is an increasing increase in farms, not because of the will of the farmers concerned, but simply because the low yield per hectare forces them to expand their farms to live there, and because many young farmers refuse to settle in areas where it is impossible to live on the farm's produce. This is the whole difficulty of the exercise: I fully understand your request – I would probably do the same if I were in your place – but I understand just as much as that of your colleagues who believe that we should perhaps take the opposite path. In the end, my responsibility is to find the right balance between everyone's interests. With regard to the installation of young farmers, I promise to answer a question later.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u129	Mr Bertrand Pancher has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u130	As negotiations on the next common agricultural policy continue in Brussels and France is working on its national strategic plan, concerns are growing among farmers, particularly in the intermediate areas. I am thinking of the farmers in Lorraine and those in my department, the Meuse. As you know, these regions are characterized by agronomic potentials below the national average: in winter, the crops in place are more difficult to recover because they do not warm up early enough. Too dry, they are also difficult to sow in late summer or early autumn. Moreover, the quality of these lands is a real obstacle to diversification and even crop rotation. However, these territories are only subject to limited accompaniment, unlike other less-favoured areas. Worse: As a result of successive CAP reforms, farmers in these intermediate areas have seen their aid cut. The General Council for Food, Agriculture and Rural Areas (CGAAER), in its report on intermediate areas, noted the difficulties experienced in these regions and pointed to the risks of an agricultural and economic impasse. I therefore wonder about the support provided for these areas in the future CAP: will the national strategic plan allocate additional resources to accompany the intermediate areas in the ecological transition? If so, which ones? Do you intend to adapt eco-regimes to the constraints of these territories, where crop rotation, for example, is difficult given the characteristics of the land? If so, how do you intend to proceed?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u131	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u132	Thank you for your question, which comes right after Mr Molac's and is a perfect example of the balance we must find. The intermediate areas seem to me to be facing a real problem. They have first undergone significant transfers during the last two CAPs – whether transfers between sectors or redistributive payments. Should we continue to make these transfers? Such an option would be beneficial to regions such as the one represented by Mr Molac, but very penalizing yours, Mr Molac. The second point is that some believe that there is a need to increase remuneration in intermediate areas. As the envelopes for basic payments are frozen, there is no other possibility to do so but to transfer from the second pillar to the first pillar, i.e. to make a levy on ICHN or agri-environmental measures (AEMs) – I leave you to imagine the reaction of those who have expressed themselves on this subject –; or to undertake a massive transfer of aid coupled to basic payments. Free to refer to this last hypothesis with President Chassaigne, but I fear that it is impractical in his answer.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u133	To rule is to choose and arbitrate!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u134	[[Smile]] In the end, the challenge is to achieve a balance. I am also very lucid: I think I can say that at the end of the work on drawing up the CAP which is under way, I will be yelled at by almost everyone: everyone will consider that the result achieved does not go far enough, that it would have been necessary to do otherwise, or that the choices are not sufficiently stated. My goal, in any case – as you know, because you're beginning to know me – is to make these choices after consulting with a large number of stakeholders, and relying as much on reason as possible. The eco-scheme scheme could be of great interest to the intermediate areas, as it allows all payments to converge. This system is based on the national average of basic payments. Since the intermediate areas receive less than the national average, being able to qualify for eco-regime will allow them to get closer to the other regions. On the other hand, we have a huge problem with agri-environmental measures which, since 2012, do not benefit the intermediate areas: we must find a way to make them eligible.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u135	Mrs Bénédicte Taurine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u136	The direction taken by the national strategic plan to decline the CAP in France follows the productivist path promoted for years, while the current period would require political courage and a reorientation of our system towards a more resilient model, developing for example polyculture-breeding and returning to the agricultural specialization of the regions. In addition, the current CAP still contains a majority of aid allocated according to the size of the structures and thus favours enlargement. It is regrettable that aid is not re-targeted on the first hectares and capped. France could, thanks to the €9 billion it collects, better direct agricultural practices towards a more peasant agriculture, defend extensive livestock farming, or support farms according to the number of workers per hectare – which would, for example, favour vegetable production. What is your position on the capping of aid? Such a measure would allow for a fairer redistribution and an increase in the "grant" for the first hectares. What are the measures of the national strategic plan that will help to maintain a peasant or family farming model?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u137	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u138	Contrary to what I hear here or there, the current CAP – let alone the future CAP – is much more redistributive in France than in many European countries, as evidenced by the number of beneficiaries compared to the amounts allocated. As proof, for example, of the changes in orientation taking place in Germany, which is approaching the French configuration. That's the first point. You have addressed two important issues: asset and cap issues. The question of whether to first pay an aid per hectare or an aid to the asset is relevant. However, as I explained earlier, the difficulty lies in the fact that there is no definition of an asset at European level. Thus, because of social structures and very variable wage costs from one country to another, if the overall amounts allocated to the Member States had been determined on the basis of the number of agricultural assets per hectare, France would not have received EUR 9.5 billion, but a much smaller sum: the budgets allocated to it would have decreased for the benefit of other European countries. It would have been in no way in our interest. On the other hand, as I mentioned earlier, the question of the definition of the true farmer arises: we must continue to treat and promote it. A final point concerning capping: France already has a much lower cap than that prevailing in many European countries, such as Germany. I will complete my answer on this point later, but know that we are facing a problem of feasibility: the circumvention of the ceiling being very simple, it probably does not allow, in fact, to make the transfers expected by those who call it their wish.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u139	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u140	[[Smile]] On Monday, at the initiative of André Chassaigne, our venerable group president, the National Assembly discussed the review of the EGALIM law. We had chosen to give the floor to farmers, who see their trade weakened, fail to earn a living and often work at a loss. Young breeders, in particular, no longer believe in the future of their profession...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u141	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u142	... and, for many, only CAP aid is the only source of income, while they obviously aspire to live by the fruits of their work and the remuneration of their production. In the case of agriculture as a whole, as in the case of livestock farming, the current CAP is therefore, in a way, a failure – in any case as far as the subject I am referring to is concerned. What is worrying for the future is that this finding is getting worse. In Auvergne as in Normandy, breeders fear that this new CAP – I said earlier – will undress Pierre to dress Paul or Jacques to dress up...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u143	Emmanuel!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u144	...Leon. They do not want the merger of aid packages coupled with suckler cattle and aid for dairy cattle. Such a measure would be dangerous for French meat and milk in our regions – for example in Normandy. We would risk seeing farmers' incomes collapse once again and permanently condemning many farms, in a way rolling out farms with human dimensions for the benefit of, in particular, XXL farms. You said earlier that in order to compensate for the effects of this measure, EUR 140 million per year would be needed, which would represent a considerable cost to the nation's finances.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u145	No, that's not it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u146	You're telling me I'm wrong, minister: forgive me for this confusion. In any event, we want you to take steps to correct this wrong copy of the CAP and the anomaly about the coupled aids that I have just mentioned, after acknowledging the failure of the EGALIM Act.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u147	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u148	The questions you are addressing are very important. First of all, and even if everything I am going to say cannot be generalized because the situation varies from one territory to another, the share of subsidies in the total income of farmers has increased. However, I reiterate that the absolute priority is to achieve "farm court" compensation, thanks to mechanisms that are not limited to those provided for in the EGALIM Act – I am thinking, for example, of Mr Besson-Moreau's bill known as EGALIM 2, which we will be discussing as early as June. Similarly, we need to accelerate the creation of value at the level of the sectors, an absolutely essential issue which we discussed here the day before yesterday. I went to Mr. Chassaigne's riding a few months ago to discuss this crucial issue. Finally, the 140 million euros a year I mentioned do not concern coupled aid: they are intended to maintain ICHN. You are right to mention this measure, which is essential, because today ICHN is a very important resource in many territories – not yours, but that of the chairman of your group, for example. That is why I believe that we must make this effort to maintain this mechanism. As far as coupled aid is concerned, I am in favour of the reform aimed at allocating it according to the UGBs. Everyone agrees that it is important to lead it – we have discussed it a lot with representatives of the industry. Nevertheless – the devil nests in the details – the question of the sliders arises. I would add that these coupled aids are in any case limited, since they cannot exceed 15% of the total envelope. Some sectors say they need a higher amount of coupled aid – it is rare for a sector to demand less, you will agree. The equation is complex. How can we manage to accompany everyone? It is all the more difficult to take into account other factors. Indeed, convergence is very unfavourable in some territories, which lose if we take into account other criteria of the CAP – we mentioned this case earlier – but it is very favourable in other territories. It is therefore necessary to find a proper balance, which is atrociously difficult. We try to do so with the utmost professionalism and with constant concern for our territories, our productions, quality, sovereignty and accompaniment. You are right: we must reconcile these different objectives, which is not obvious. But it is not because the task is complex that we will not succeed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u149	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u150	A man of the terroir!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u151	The CAP already leaves a share of competence to the Member States with the second pillar, which defines the rural development policy co-financed by the Member States. An à la carte CAP is thus drawn up, with Member States having the flexibility to select the actions to be supported. The 2013 reform increased this subsidiarity by extending flexibility to the first pillar: aid coupled with 15%, enhanced support for areas under natural constraints, redistributive payment to provide a bonus to small farms or conditions for greening implementation. Finally, some measures are the subject of an entirely national framework: the compensatory allowance for natural handicaps, installation aid or agri-environmental and climatic measures. Thus, the CAP already strikes a balance between defining a common policy and adapting to the specificities of each Member State. Do you not think that the strategic plans will call into question this balance and lead to the gradual dismantling of the CAP? There is a high risk of distortion of competition between Member States by reducing their normative alignment and environmental requirements. In addition, each Member State's strategic plans will be able to target certain sectors to make them more competitive at the expense of other Member States. Is the machine not on its way for the CAP to take the form of an agricultural and rural cohesion policy with 27 different or even divergent agricultural strategies? Once again, the European Union will go back to other continental-sized agricultural powers, such as China and Brazil, which continue to invest heavily in harmonised agricultural policies and spend twice as much on agricultural support as Europe. [[Smile]] Minister, you have two minutes to tell me if your choices will take this issue into account.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u152	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u153	What I am absolutely sure of, first of all, is that I do not wish for our country the American or Chinese model that you mentioned. The harmonization which characterizes it is profoundly contrary to what makes our agriculture rich, namely quality. It finds its roots in the plurality of our territories. The quality of the farms in your beautiful department is not unrelated to the intrinsic characteristics of this one. Other departments have other characteristics that will be found in the types of culture developed there. While the very different model observed in the United States or in Asian countries is distinguished by total harmonization, sow rearing is practised in 13-storey buildings. That is certainly not what I want for our country. Secondly, you are asking whether or not convergence between Member States is in progress. She's, in my opinion, compelling. You described the current situation. I will give a few examples: redistributive payments can be very different from one state to another; in some states, the first pillar is very strong, in others it is the second; States shall establish the compensatory allowance for natural disability, others shall not; In some countries, this aid concerns both plant and animal protection, while France, taking into account mountain areas in particular, has chosen to apply it only to the animal world. In short, our policies need to adapt to the realities of the territories. The maintenance of the plurality of the French territories is fortunately made possible by some form of flexibility at European level. Conversely, the battle to achieve greater convergence and to combat unfair competition is imperative. I repeat, I have fought a lot – and France has fought a lot – so that the foundation of eco-regimes does not suffer any derogation. We have achieved this progress at the level of the Council of Ministers. We are currently fighting to confirm it at the trialogue level. The parliamentarians on all sides also support us, which I welcome. Yes, we must make progress in order to reduce unfair competition within the common market. The eco-regime system must also be defended in the framework of trade agreements, in order to become the basic rule for international trade negotiations. However, this must not be done without taking into account the diversity of our territories. I believe deeply in the importance of these goals and will strive with determination to achieve them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u154	Mr Xavier Batut has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u155	While the new common agricultural policy is to be defined for the next few years, the French position has already helped to avoid a catastrophic fall in its budget by keeping the envelope allocated to France at around 63 billion euros, whereas it was initially to be revised downwards. Although the negotiations are not yet fully completed at European level, this redefinition will be marked by two very important achievements: the implementation throughout Europe of environmental ambition to avoid distortions of competition, but also the recognition of the right to error when informing CAP cases. This last measure was particularly expected by our farmers. Indeed, a simple check-box error or plot description could call into question the receipt of these premiums, thus endangering farms. In addition, the European Union has made soil conservation agriculture eligible for the new eco-schemes of the first pillar. I would like to draw your attention to this practice, which responds to the current environmental challenges – soil fertility, carbon storage, erosion control, water quality, the development of the use of biocontrol products in order to limit the use of pesticides – and thus promotes the return of biodiversity to our countryside. The territory of Normandy of which I am elected has been for more than fifteen years a precursor on these subjects defended by the association Sol-en-Caux and the Association for the Promotion of Sustainable Agriculture, through the establishment of direct seedlings, even for industrial crops. Minister, will soil conservation agriculture be recognized in the future eco-regimes of the national strategic plan, in order to pay farmers for the environmental services provided and to initiate a more massive transition to this future agriculture? [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] More broadly, what are the axes that the Government intends to promote as political projects for the common agricultural policy in France, for the territories and for the sectors?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u156	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u157	Conservation farming is incredibly important to me. You have to bet a lot on her. My point of view is somewhat biased, because my generation was formed by this agriculture, but I deeply believe that when we talk about agriculture, we must start by looking at the soil. It's the most important thing, because he's the one we cherish. However, the approach to conservation agriculture focuses exclusively on the issue of soil. So I believe in it a lot. When we discuss certain uses of herbicides, I am a little saddened that we do not ask ourselves the question of the feasibility and sustainability of this beautiful conservation agriculture.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u158	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u159	This debate is nevertheless very interesting from a democratic point of view, since two environmental objectives come to pass: on the one hand, the fight against climate change, with carbon capture; on the other, biodiversity. I am not saying that one is more important than the other or should be privileged, but that we really have to make a choice, because unfortunately these two criteria cannot be taken into consideration at the same time on the same plot – some say the opposite, but they have never shown how that was possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u160	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u161	Let us not forget that nature is very complex. It is absolutely necessary to support conservation agriculture, of which I am a fervent advocate. There is, of course, no certification for conservation agriculture today. On the other hand, we are considering the development of a carbon storage certification. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Such a measure would make it possible to recognise the important role played by conservation agriculture, the one that captures the most CO, and to remind – I affirm it and the loud cry – that farmers are actors in the fight against climate change. Indeed, they capture tons of CO in the soil, even more than forests can do – it is a reality, even if everyone who knows me knows how much I love our forests. We must therefore favour this type of agriculture, which has a lot of future. You can count on me.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u162	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u163	Mr François Cormier-Bouligeon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u164	This afternoon we are discussing the issues of the national strategic plan within the framework of the common agricultural policy 2021-2027. Above all, we should welcome the action of the President of the Republic, which allows us to consolidate an envelope of 62 billion euros for French farmers. We should also welcome the method of consultation that you have been implementing for several weeks. At a time when you are working on this national strategic plan, I want to raise an alarm here in the National Assembly about farmers in the middle zones. Since already two CAPs, the intermediate areas have seen their aid decline significantly, so much so that some of the farms in the 20 or so departments concerned are now exsanguous. Their farmers work the land and raise animals in territories with lower agricultural capacity due to the agronomic structure of their soils. I know that you are well aware of this subject and I am sure that you still remember this afternoon in my constituency, in the Charlon family breeding in Montigny, where Berrichon farmers have explained their practices and constraints to you. These farmers work daily to feed the French. They do so with pride, with excellence, because our agriculture is the most virtuous in the world, but also, alas, without taking away the income to which they are entitled. And I want to repeat here my loyalty to the farmers of the Pays-Fort. Some of them are already challenged by the unfair withdrawal of the ICHN; They should not be victims of the new eco-regime system. You want to propose, for example, the transition from a swimmer system to a feeder system – the transition to the UGB. Very well: our polyculture-breeding system can allow us to do so while the export of broilers has not paid enough for farms for a long time; But then what will you do to ensure that these farms have the means to invest in order to ensure this change, and what will you propose, downstream, to organize the processing and distribution, at the right price, of taurillons and heifers? [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] On this 5th May, I would like to ask you, Minister, as a Bonaparte at the Pont d'Arcole: what is your plan of battle for a sun of Austerlitz to rise tomorrow in our intermediate areas?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u165	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u166	Your question suggests to me that I have not been able to show how aware I am of the seriousness of the situation in the intermediate areas and the action I am taking to deal with it, although I have put it as a priority for the department as soon as I take up my duties. It is indeed a subject that I have known for a long time. As you said, Mr President, the fact is that the last two CAP reforms have led to massive transfers from intermediate areas to other areas, hence from crops from intermediate areas to other crops. I am convinced that we should not continue this way but stabilize the situation, knowing that, in addition, since the average level of basic payments is below the national average in these areas, the eco-scheme scheme will increase them by 20% to 30%. That's a positive point. And then, we discussed it during my visit to your constituency, it is true that all the accompaniments under agri-environmental measures since 2012 have failed in the intermediate areas. Since the State is now responsible for the management of these measures, I believe that it is essential that they serve these areas. Once these statements have been made that reflect my vision of the intermediate areas, we must not overlook the fact that the main aspects of the issue go beyond the common agricultural policy, since there is also the remuneration – I mentioned earlier about the EGALIM law – and the subject of access to water in the context of climate change. Intermediate areas first impose an agronomic approach, knowing that their own constraints are often amplified by climate change. This will be one of the topics that I will mention in the context of the Varenne agricole de l'eau et du changement climatique that we are about to organise, a subject that is all the more important in areas like these.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u167	Mr Jean-Claude Leclabart has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u168	The climate news and its recent adversity prove, alas, that climate change is very real... The Government has decided to release €1 billion to help French agriculture in this disaster, but the Climate Bill as adopted at first reading has not selected concrete proposals to show that agriculture has its full place and role to play in addressing the climate emergency. Among the elements of the future reform of the CAP, the greening proposed by the transfer of support from the first pillar to the second raises concerns and tensions in our countryside, particularly in the intermediate areas, concerning, inter alia, eco-regime. I would remind you that agriculture, starting with agricultural soils, is a major carbon sink. Therefore, Minister, do you not think that it is urgent to propose to our farmers, actors in the midst of reaction in our territories, solutions of positive externalities favourable to resilience in the face of climate change? You have already responded in part, but this point deserves my insistence. This would ensure the remuneration and profitability of their operations through all crops and inter-cultures – wheat in all its forms, legumes, up to durum wheat and rice. Carbon capture and the opening up of this green market, and hence the farmer's direct access to the carbon market, would thus create added value on an environmental basis. The "good carbon diagnosis" for farmers who have been in operation for less than five years should only be a step towards access to the carbon market for voluntary farmers. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] I heard your answers. You are insisting very much on cover and conservation agriculture, which already exists on many hectares in our territories, but my question is precise: are you in favour of farmers' access to the carbon market?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u169	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u170	I am very pleased to come back to this very issue, honourable Member. There are actually two carbon markets, one mandatory and the other voluntary. The mandatory carbon market is the result of European directives, including the so-called ETS directives – emissions trading scheme. Beyond the difficulties of past years, it works by its constitution even in a closed vacuum. Emission sectors – industrial or other – need to reduce emissions or buy carbon credits from others in order to offset them in this market so that, at the end of the year, there will be an overall reduction in emissions. As for the voluntary market, it consists of undertaking an approach that compensates for the program produced – remember, a few years ago, it was proposed to compensate for a plane trip by going to plant trees in the Amazon. The voluntary market is of interest to many companies, but also to many of our fellow citizens, because it allows – which through an event, which through a practice, which through an enterprise, association or community policy – to achieve carbon neutrality. It is the development of the voluntary market that I am aiming at for the agricultural world, because its integration into the first market would not create value and for the environment and for agriculture, in accordance with the philosophy of action that is mine, but to subject it first to reductions even before any possible creation of value. I am not in favour of this approach, but, on the contrary, of new creations of value for the environment and for agriculture, which requires connecting not to the mandatory market, but to the voluntary market, the possibilities of which can be very interesting for the agricultural world. But the low-carbon label must first be put in place. We have developed it with the Ministry of the Ecological Transition and are currently duplicating it: today, between 300 and 1000 farms have already entered this process of creating carbon credits. That is, in a very precise way – a little technical, I agree – the position that is mine.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u171	Mrs Nicole Le Peih has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u172	Specific objectives of the National Strategic Plan include the need to ensure a fair income for our farmers. This is the first challenge for our agriculture, which has led us to support investment in the production tool through the recovery plan, which devotes EUR 1.2 billion to agriculture, to encourage diversification of activities, to protect our CAP subsidies through the work and support of our ministers and Members of the European Parliament and, finally, to rework price formation, in particular through the proposal for a law by my colleague Besson-Moreau. As an open-air poultry farmer, I have a conviction that has been inspiring me for 30 years: everything depends on the ability of our agriculture to scale up. We have already made progress and will continue to do so; I know that the transformation of the farm France is progressing very fast and we must congratulate the men and women of the agricultural world. In spite of this, if the consumer does not have the reading keys to favour products that earn their farmers well, we will continue to face a twofold problem: that of the race for low prices and that of the capture of value added from the downstream. I know, Mr Minister, that you have followed and supported the work of my colleague Célia de Lavergne and of all the Members of the group working on Title V, "Feeding", in order to develop, on the occasion of the future Climate Act, a poster indicating to consumers the share of the added value to the farmer. Can we therefore count on your support to incorporate this display device into the Besson-Moreau bill proposal? Because without this spine, I fear that the national strategic plan will not achieve its economic objectives.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u173	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u174	Like your colleague Besson-Moreau in his bill, I think that origin is absolutely essential, firstly because it is a very legitimate request of the consumer that it is very important to hear, secondly because I am firmly convinced, as you have rightly said, that the DNA of our agriculture is quality...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u175	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u176	... and must therefore be reflected in the indication of the origin of the product. It is not the same thing to eat a chicken from a French farm and a chicken from a Brazilian farm, from an environmental and nutritional point of view. But today, in a school canteen, you don't know what chicken you eat: it's a big problem for me. That is why, whether it is in the context of the consideration of this bill or in the context of the measures that I may be led to take by order, I will do everything I can to facilitate the indication of origin. I will therefore support the article you mentioned. That is also why we are currently fighting for the implementation of the original articles adopted under the Circular Economy Act last year, which included the censored articles of the GALIM Act. Moreover, the question of origin also arises at European level, following the referral by the Lactalis Group of the European Court of Justice on the regulation of the origin of milk. I will also lead this fight at European level, because I believe much in the origin, as well as in the relevance of developing as far as possible the indications in this field.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u177	Mrs Mireille Robert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u178	I would like to ask you about the situation of farmers on the mountain ranges. The revision of the CAP gives rise to growing concern among their representatives whom I have been able to meet, particularly in my department of Aude, whose geographical characteristics you know, and you know the difficulties encountered in zoning certain communes during the last delineation of disadvantaged areas. You will therefore understand the concerns of the herders about the arbitrations of the National Strategic Plan for the financial balance of their farms. Livestock in my department is a model for agro-ecological agriculture that we defend. Breeders insist that their territories must be recognised as production areas in their own right, with their geographical specificities. Many concerns remain. Firstly, breeders question the introduction of laser remote sensing software – LIDAR – to identify pastoral surfaces: they doubt that it will be able to precisely delimit certain areas enclaved, wooded or pentuated and consider the method of declaring their pastoral spaces more effective. Secondly, on the financial side, they want the level of ICHN to be strengthened and strengthened. I want to defend with them the absolute need to support our Audian territory in order to compensate for the additional costs caused by the natural and geographical handicaps of their farms. Thirdly, the breeders have expressed to me their great concern about the projected decline in coupled beef and sheep support. With 300 sheep, an ovine farmer specializing in mountain areas could lose up to 50% of his income; That would be the death of the farms. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] With regard to remote sensing, the level of ICHN and coupled assistance, can you, Minister, indicate the directions of the national strategic plan and remove any doubts? What specific place will be given to the economic conditions of farmers in mountain ranges?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u179	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u180	Mrs Robert, as I said, it seems important to stabilize the level of ICHN. To achieve this, however, the national budget contribution under the second pillar of the CAP, which includes ICHN, agri-environmental measures, organic farming and crop insurance, must reach at least EUR 140 million per year, or EUR 700 million over the period. You who vote on budgets every year, you see the importance of the necessary effort. As far as remote sensing is concerned, the LIDAR device is being tested. Let's stay calm and see if it works. The climbs should inform us of any concerns and the analysis of the experiment will show whether the game is worth it. I go there without preconceived ideas and look forward to the conclusions of the experiment. I note, however, that the scheme is being deployed massively in other sectors, for example in the forestry sector, thanks to the funds of the France Recovery plan. Finally, with regard to coupled aid, as I pointed out earlier, discussions and consultation are under way. These aids are obviously necessary. I believe in moving to the UGB, but the related cursors still need to be refined. We work with all professionals.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u181	Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u182	[[Smile on the benches of the LR group]] Is that a housing question?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u183	I would also like to convey the concern of the "intermediate areas" with regard to the future national strategic plan on agriculture. These territories, which cross France from the north-east to the south-west, constitute an area of large crops with low levels of production due to the agronomic structure of their soils and the use of polyculture-breeding. They consider that the CAP has not been taken into account so far and would like to see the solidarity mechanisms strengthened for their benefit.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u184	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u185	To date, current policies have encouraged expansion strategies driven by low soil productivity. There is now a new intervention tool called eco-regime, which could account for between 20% and 30% of direct aid to farmers. Its objective would be to condition aid for environmentally friendly measures. Intermediate areas could be disadvantaged over highly productive land with more room for manoeuvre. You have recognized that there is a risk of penalizing the Lorrain producers. I therefore ask you to take account of these territories both in terms of direct aid – basic payment entitlements, future eco-schemes, ICHN, for cereals and livestock – and in terms of investment aid in the second pillar of the CAP. These farms and their operators will only be able to survive if their specificity is taken into account by these solidarity mechanisms. Minister, can you reassure us about the accessibility of this new eco-scheme for all territories? Very concretely, will you take into account the production constraints of the intermediate areas by supporting the criteria, to allow all territories a fair approach to progress? This would make it possible to move towards a more so-called environmental one for as many farmers as possible in the country, without excluding those in intermediate areas, often without, in the vicinity, tools for diversification, such as a sugar factory or an agri-food plant. Last question: could you imagine, through this eco-regime, a valorisation of the melliferous plants along the streams? This would translate into the CAP a good practice that recreates food diversity.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u186	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u187	With regard to taking account of the specificities of the intermediate areas within the framework of the eco-regime: yes and archi-yes! As I have consistently explained this afternoon, eco-regime is one of the elements that allow the intermediate areas to regain somewhat higher levels of basic payment. Indeed – I am sorry if my remarks are very technical, but that will allow those who listen to us to have all the details on this point – inasmuch as, in terms of eco-regime, the convergence is total and the average level of basic payments in the intermediate areas is often below the average, this arrangement is favourable to them. Even if it concerns only 20% to 30% of aid, it would be a step in the right direction. On the other hand, the assessments show that, if we take the criterion of diversification of crops, the intermediate areas have easier access to eco-regime than the very productive areas. This is not necessarily intuitive, but when we look closely, we realize that, because of the agronomic constraints linked to the specificities of their soils, these territories have often already made a significant diversification. Thus, in your beautiful department of Meurthe-et-Moselle, the rate of access of intermediate areas to eco-regime is very high.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u188	What is he?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u189	This rate depends on the scenarios – which I could communicate to you – but, in general, the farms in the intermediate areas have easier access to them. I insist on this because it is not the first intuition that one can have, but we see it with the agronomic approach. Finally, with regard to environmental architecture – so-called agri-environmental infrastructure – discussions are under way. We explore three ways of accessing eco-regime: either through crop diversification, which I mentioned, or through certifications – HVE, bio, etc. – either by agri-environmental infrastructure. These, in addition to representing bonuses, could become a direct way of accessing these aids. We're working on it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u190	So why not melliferous plants?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u191	Yeah, why not.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u192	Mr Marc Le Fur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u193	The Member of Parliament whom I am will raise two issues. Hedges, first of all: not only do they contribute to the proper management of agricultural areas, but they also have a very positive impact on biodiversity. Will they be well taken into account in the area under the new CAP? We had a sketch in this area, some time ago, I hope that will not be repeated. The second point is milk.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u194	Very important, milk!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u195	We can use euphemisms, but the facts are there: the EGALIM law failed. The price of milk paid to the farmer has decreased and, which has been less noticed, the costs have increased. I refer you to Cerfrance Bretagne's study: the average cost of 1000 litres was 385 euros in 2018, 398 euros in 2019 and 402 euros in 2020. The CAP could possibly correct this situation. Two solutions, two tools are available to you; Are you going to use them? The first is aid coupled with the dairy cow. Today, they represent little; tomorrow, will they be able to increase, especially in areas like mine, supposed to be plain areas? Another formula was outlined: the redistributive payment, which allows for a little more aid per hectare, for the first fifty-two hectares. Today, this system weighs only 10% of the total aid. Do you plan to increase to 20%, as some would like? This formula is a plus for family farming because if we help all farms, support is proportionally more important for small and medium-sized farms. It is essential to maintain the dairy herd and milk production, which, as everyone knows, play a major role in land use planning. In the face of the failure of EQUALIM, prices can no longer be reversed, but the effect of their increase can be corrected thanks to developments in the CAP. On these two subjects, hedges and milk, what are you planning to do?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u196	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u197	With regard to hedges, the answer is yes.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u198	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u199	This is a technical point, but as you know, we have fought for this point to be included in BCAE 7 – the theme "maintenance of topographical features" of good agricultural and environmental conditions – and the inclusion of hedges in the farm area has normally already been revalidated as a trialogue. I am, like you, one of the great defenders of hedges. As part of the recovery plan, these will be financed to the tune of EUR 50 million. Since the major policies of re-memberment, in the second half of the 20th century, hundreds of thousands of kilometres of hedges have been destroyed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u200	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u201	...which is now reflected in a disaster in terms of carbon capture, but also in the explosion of plant health diseases. As far as milk is concerned, I am very concerned, given the current context, because I do not want to create any dissension in the Republican Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u202	We're all united!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u203	I'll explain. Mr. Le Fur, you embody a certain right,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u204	The Republican right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u205	...but Messrs. Vigier and Bazin will find it difficult to join.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u206	Don't oppose each other!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u207	You say there are two possibilities.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u208	We can combine them!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u209	At the same time!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u210	If we choose to increase the redistributive payment, I guarantee you that it will displease Mr. Bazin, because if the redistributive payment is very beneficial to your territory, Mr. Le Fur, it is not at all so for the intermediate areas.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u211	It is beneficial for small and medium-sized farms.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u212	No, not at all: because of the low profitability per hectare in the intermediate areas, they structurally need to have large areas, not because of the desire for gigantism, but simply because their reality is that they have to invest a lot of work for a lower profitability than elsewhere. Yes, to say that because we have a lot of hectares, we're necessarily very rich, that's totally wrong. But if we choose to favour coupled aids for milk, then the Le Fur line will oppose with the Vigier line, because the coupled aids are capped at 15%, so any transfer is made between the lines. Without pretending to represent the motion of consensus in the Republicans, I will try to satisfy you all three. The task is difficult!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u213	Good luck, Minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u214	You can do it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u215	It's "at the same time," but you're good, minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u216	Mr Emmanuel Maquet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u217	In my constituency of the Somme, the malaise of farmers is the same everywhere. After a year more than proving, the project of the new CAP worries. How could we turn a deaf ear when our farmers have made so much effort to guarantee our food sovereignty in the midst of the covid crisis? It is time to react: you must guarantee, in the national strategic plan, a fair and balanced CAP guaranteeing three fundamental objectives: to protect our sovereignty and our food health, to develop actions that are favourable to environmental objectives and to strengthen the economic fabric of rural areas. In ten years, the gradual convergence of aid has, on average, led to a 42% reduction in direct agricultural aid in the Somme, to the benefit of other regions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u218	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u219	In 2014, the shift in redistributive payment from 5% to 10% enabled some regions to partially offset this convergence of the basic payment, but unfortunately not in the Somme. The proposed 80 % gradual convergence corresponds to a further reduction in aid of EUR 12 per hectare, i.e. EUR 5.66 million; With a convergence of 100%, the loss would be €8.5 million. Our farmers are concerned about the guidelines that appear to be taken in the national strategic plan, such as the criteria for access to eco-regime, much mentioned this afternoon – a new version of the green payment, to which 30% of farmers will not be able to access with the criteria currently proposed. It is more than necessary to facilitate access to this device. Guaranteeing aid in case of bad harvest due to difficult climatic events would send a strong signal to farmers, especially small farmers, who feel like the forgotten CAP. Mr. Minister, you explained this to me this afternoon, but I regret that you are not discussing a better territorialization of the ICHN of the second pillar, of which my constituency is still not benefiting, which is incomprehensible in view of the difficulties encountered, in particular, by the operators of the Lower Fields area of Somme Bay. I miss time, alas, but these three main points lead me to a very simple question: will the next CAP really answer these issues?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u220	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u221	My objective is to respond to it as best as possible with the constraints that are mine. I repeat, this is not a budgetary constraint since we have already fought this fight and fortunately won it. We have been debating this matter for three hours, and we see the complexity of it, with the demands of each other; If the CAP budget had been cut by 15%, imagine what it would have been! We have managed to secure a consolidated budget; Now the great difficulty lies in its distribution. Convergence is necessary, everyone knows it. It is not a reform or a political vision; It's a necessity and we've been dragging it for years. There are two possibilities for us: either full convergence at the end of the next CAP or more gradual convergence. I am among those who consider that there are sometimes far too strong impacts, imposing progressivity. On redistributive payments, beyond the tone of humour that I used in response to Mr Le Fur, some departments will demand this redistributive payment in a very strong way and others, who are often already affected by convergence, will have a double effect which will have a heavy impact on farmers' income. The eco-regime must be accessible, but we must be clear and not tell carabistyles: it is a new effort demanded of farmers. This new effort will have to be accompanied, i.e. the eco-scheme will have to be accessible. This is the work we are doing with the industry.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u222	Mr Jean-Pierre Vigier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u223	Mr Minister, last month you met with your European counterparts to find an agreement on the next CAP, which is of particular importance for our farmers, who are going through a major crisis. Mountain farming is a sector of activity and attractiveness for the territories generating an annual economic potential of €8.5 billion. While the Mountain Law of 2016 has reaffirmed the importance of specific support for mountain areas to ensure the dynamism of our agriculture, the future CAP should be part of the continuity of existing arrangements, in order simply to ensure the sustainability of mountain farming. From this point of view, it is vital that current aid, in particular coupled aid and ICHN, be maintained in the interests of fairness to all farmers and to all territories. I stress that these aids are essential to maintain the economic balance of mountain farms. For example, as regards the mountain dairy sector, it is not conceivable that aid for dairy cows should be transformed into aid for the BMU without distinction between mountain and plain. More broadly, the future CAP must take into account the strategic stakes of the sector by promoting the establishment of new farms for the promotion of quality products while at the same time promoting the ecological transition. So what guarantees do you intend to bring to our mountain farming in the future CAP, a path of excellence that needs to be supported and encouraged?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u224	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u225	Mr President, I know your competence on these matters. I think the reform of the BMU is important. This is a complicated reform because it changes the calculation rules, which are now fixed on the number of calves per cow and do not take into account the actual composition of the herd. Like many, I think that moving to the UGB allows us to promote the sector and the creation of value, to give a boost to dairy farmers, but this must be done with a view to detail: since there is a loading rate, which is not the case in the milk sector, what happens in a plain territory, a territory like Normandy which is dear to me, where access to land is such that loading rates can sometimes be very high? These calculations are on the table. We had wondered whether a single UGB or several categories should be retained. In the first scenarios, there was only one; We went back on it by dissociating nursing UGBs and milk UGBs. But then, who of the different breeders, ask yourself. There is also the question of mixed farming. All of these issues are being addressed and we have even moved on to case-by-case, farm-wide assessments to measure the effects of each other and to make this reform accessible. The project seems to me to be shared, but it requires accompaniment and consideration of all the specificities, which you embody each other.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u226	Mrs Michèle Crouzet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u227	Among the major challenges of the next common agricultural policy are the installation of new farmers and the transmission of farms. We need a CAP that facilitates the installation of people not from the agricultural sector and accompanies them in the development of value-added projects. First of all, with regard to the installation of new farmers, I would like to ask you about the young farmers' allowance (YTD). The "For another CAP" platform proposes to transform this endowment into an installation aid, the main difference of which would lie in the lag of the age criterion of 40 to 50 years in order to allow the greatest number of people to benefit from it. The main aim would be to target people undergoing vocational retraining, sometimes a little older, who tend to move towards particularly virtuous agricultural systems. The aim would therefore be to give priority to the most virtuous installation projects linked to organic farming, agroforestry or collective action. Although this is a "non-superfacial" aid and therefore falls within the competence of the regions, I would like to know how you feel about this proposal as well as about the ongoing reflections on installation aid. Secondly, with regard to the transmission of farms, we are more than ever faced with the enormous challenge of renewing generations. If we are to meet the challenge of transferring farms, we may need to get out of the race for expansion and overinvestment. The European Commission has also proposed to step up the specific aid to small farmers, which we have unfortunately not used in the current CAP because of its capping and its too small amounts that make it impossible to have a real impact. Yet it is a very useful tool to support these small farms. I would therefore like to know whether you intend to intervene in the ongoing negotiations so that this mechanism can be deflated so that it can help small French farmers in addition to coupled aid.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u228	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u229	In addition to the issue of aid for the establishment of the CAP, there are two more crucial ones: compensation, of which we have talked a lot, and insurance. Fortunately, there is an agricultural passion, in order to assume the ever-increasing risk of climatic hazards: to settle down thinking that in the next two or three years may happen an episode of frost, drought or hail like those we have experienced in recent years, risking to affect an entire year of production, one must indeed have a great passion. We need to consider the installation as a whole: the support tools of the CAP but also the action on compensation and crop insurance, and I will even add the action on access to land because agriculture is one of the only sectors of activity where, before we even begin, we owe ourselves several hundred thousand euros to buy land. These three subjects are the subject of different policies, all very strong because it is essential. The CAP has two installation support tools in the first and second pillars. Support from the second pillar, the ADI, will be managed by the regions. It is important, fortiori in the run-up to regional elections, to know what the regions want to do for the establishment of young farmers. In the first pillar, there is a payment for young farmers, an AJA, which is part of the escarcelle of the arbitrations that I have to render. I am rather in favour of supporting these facilities. This calls for choices, not between sectors or between territories, but within a sector between young and old.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u230	Mr Philippe Vigier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u231	We are talking about the CAP, the first and second pillars, the eco-schemes, the percentages of aid of 20% to 30%, which is absolutely considerable. French farmers do not start from anything, a lot of effort has been made on all farms, field crops like others, because if the transition is mandatory, competitiveness must be preserved. This triple objective, the accompanying of the agri-environmental transition, the preservation of the margins of competitiveness and the guarantee of a decent remuneration for farmers – in recent years have abounded in sinusoidal curves – we share, but it seems to me essential to move forward on two requirements. First of all, there is a need for accessibility for all farmers, so that some of them are not left out. Efforts have been made with respect to level 2 environmental certification, and HVE's efforts have recently been undertaken in my region. The specificities of certain farms, such as the intermediate areas, Luc Lamirault spoke about this for the Eure-et-Loir, but it is also true for other departments in the Centre-Val de Loire region, it is something important: in an intermediate area, there is less agronomic potential and, of course, the economic balance of the farms is affected. [[Ms. Jeanine Dubie applauds]] Secondly, it seems to me essential not to exclude farmers in access routes: diversification, certification, biodiversity. You don't have to separate everything, otherwise you're going to put each other in a kind of path, while it's important that each of the paths can be explored, with sufficiently significant amounts, so as to achieve the desired result, the ecological transition, with competitiveness and decent remuneration to the key. Thank you for telling me about your discussions on these issues.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u232	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u233	Accessibility must be ensured. I stress one point: eco-regime is the mechanism for accelerating agro-ecological transitions, but some see it as a financing instrument. Ecoregime does not finance: it collects and renders, it is very different. The reality is the way in which you have presented the eco-regime: it is a levy that is made when certain practices exist, which shows, let us repeat, what the agricultural world is doing in favour of preserving the environment and that few sectors of activity would accept. The eco-regime must therefore be accessible, that is to say, and we are working on it by exploring three possibilities: cultural diversification, agro-ecological infrastructure and certification. It remains to be clarified what would be covered by each of these channels. What certification would we be talking about? What agro-ecological infrastructure would be involved? Can bridges be considered between these three routes? One thing is certain: the rules laid down by the European Council require us, whatever the number of routes we choose, to provide for at least three levels of eco-regime: zero, standard and high. For the time being, therefore, we are considering these three paths and, for each of them, these three levels. Here too, the devil nests in detail: we are therefore working with stakeholders to determine the right accessibility for our farmers.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u234	To solve such an equation, we would need an engineer...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u235	And we have one!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u236	Mrs Nadia Essayan has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u237	The CAP is very much expected in our territories because it is a strategic tool for French and European sovereignty. Indeed, as anti-European discourses become stronger, the CAP represents a major Community achievement that must be preserved, strengthened and valued. At a time when negotiations are still under way in Brussels, farmers are fully mobilized in my rural department to defend our local production, as on 6 April in Bourges. In order for this CAP to be a success, it must be declined according to the Member States. This is precisely the purpose of the national strategic plan. I welcome the work of consultation initiated with the assistance of the National Commission for Public Debate so that citizens can express their views on what they expect from the CAP in France, from their CAP. The national strategic plan is to be submitted by France to the European authorities in June. However, some uncertainties remain due to the continuation of the negotiations. In my constituency, as in many others, farmers are questioning the conditions for access to the eco-regime. You said in this House that 70% of farmers are eligible for this aid. This clarification, given during the question-and-answer session to the Government on the same day as the demonstration in Bourges, reassured the producers. However, some issues remain and prevent them from projecting into the new CAP and in line with the logic of eco-regime. This should be based on the HVE certification, the HVE + coefficient giving rise to the standard level of the ecoregimes and the HVE 3 coefficient at the upper level. In order to be fully informed about this, we would like to know whether you have assessed the percentage of farmers who will be affected by these two levels. Could you also tell us the difference between the standard level and the higher level of aid?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u238	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u239	I cannot answer your questions with precision, Mrs Essayan, because we are still working on the modalities of the various certifications. Of course we know the HVE 3 certification and the Biodiversity certification, but the CE 2 + certification remains to be created. In all cases, these devices are only gateways. A farmer cannot satisfy himself, in fact, to obtain only the standard level of the eco-scheme. It will automatically seek access to the highest level. We are also thinking about certifications on specific productions, very specific agronomic realities, but also the low carbon approach, which could be very interesting in terms of certification, but which is not yet finalized. This work is ongoing and does not need to be completed at the budget model stage. They will be completed as and when they are discussed at European level. In any event, it seems to me appropriate to develop differentiated approaches – cultural diversification, certification or agro-ecological infrastructure – for eco-regimes. Important work still needs to be done to analyse the issues of these different approaches across jurisdictions and to determine the degree of accessibility of the highest levels. The work continues and is the subject of many exchanges.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u240	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u241	I have two questions for you, Minister. I am elected from a territory, Burgundy-Franche-Comté, identified as an intermediate area due to the weaker agricultural capacities due to the agronomic structure of its soils. Farmers are legitimately concerned about the national strategy that you are going to pass on to the European Union. According to the information available to the agricultural authorities, you could make choices leading to a significant reduction in financial support for nursing farms, whose low incomes are well known. However, in this large banana-shaped area that crosses France from east to west, virtuous agricultural practices are developing in terms of the environment. So my first question is: What is the status of the discussions on the subject? My second question concerns the choice of organic farming made by many farmers in my territory. Maintenance aid is eliminated after five years as it gives them time to consolidate their economic model and allows them to cope with recurrent drought episodes. The tax credit introduced as a currency does not fill the deficit far from that. Under these conditions, the deconversion of these farmers seems inevitable. What financial measures do you intend to attach to organic certification? How will you help farmers who committed to organic farming five years ago?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u242	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u243	With regard to coupled aid, which we discussed a great deal this afternoon, we must, I repeat, continue discussions in order to clarify the rate of loading for each territory. As for organic farming, it is financed by the second pillar. We want to develop it in line with the "From Farm to Fork" strategy. The latest scenarios we have examined plan to increase the budget allocation for organic farming from EUR 250 million to EUR 340 million. I cannot answer your question more precisely. Some may say that it's not enough and others that it's too much. In order to maintain ICHN and MAEs, support the development of organic farming and the trend of crop insurance, and include predation measures in the second pillar, either transfer credits from the first to the second pillar, which would not be in line with income stabilization, or make internal choices in the second pillar, which would be very complicated. In any event, an additional 140 million will be required each year from the national budget. Now you have all the data in the equation, Mrs. Untermaier! Believe me, I'm fighting to solve it and achieve the best balance.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u244	Mr Dominique Potier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u245	We have been together for almost three hours, Minister, and my question is simple: does not your search for balance actually lead to a form of immobilism and conservatism for our agriculture? Nothing would be less opportune given the demand for justice that must now be ours to rebalance farmers' incomes. As you know, some are more equal in terms of income and work than others. It is easy, but not brave, to evacuate this question. Secondly, we must engage agriculture in a profound transformation in order to respond to the climate emergency and the changing markets as it emerges. However, any reluctance to trivialise eco-regimes and to make the most of them, as well as to transfer from the first to the second pillar of the CAP, would lead us to an impasse. As you know, we actually have only two room for manoeuvre: the capping of aid to the asset and the redistributive effect. We have no choice but to continue this movement. In the end, the risk would be to achieve an unimaginative CAP, while the proposals of cooperatives for the use of agricultural equipment, CUMA, and other collectives, particularly in favour of PDO cheeses, could generate virtuous savings, sources of added value. I am thinking in particular of the proposals concerning agroforestry. In 1950, France had 2.5 million kilometres of hedges, compared to 750,000 today. To plan to raise this figure to 1.5 million in 2050 would be far from prohibitive. This is a political choice: to promote more resilient ecosystems, in particular to be less dependent on phytopharmaceuticals. Such a choice is within our reach. Minister, are you ready to share with us the farmers' income tables, tell us what budgets they can expect and how they can prepare for future markets? How can we redirect appropriations towards greater justice and better preparation for the future? It is not enough to aim for balance, especially when it limits to immobilism: it would not be wise for the fairness that we want for the agricultural world, nor would it be in favour of the policy of installation and succession, without which everything else will be in vain.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u246	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u247	We must seek complementarity of approaches. The issue of farmers' income is obviously essential. We have databases on current revenues, but not yet simulations of the different scenarios. As soon as they are available, we will of course transmit them to you. You consider that we do not go far enough and you propose, among other things – because you make many proposals – the capping of asset support and redistributive payment. Does the cap make sense and would it allow for transfers? In any case, it is the subject of technical discussions, particularly because of the ease of circumvention, which is all the more tempting because it allows for a large amount of money – experience has shown us this. I'm at your disposal to discuss it again. On redistributive payment, on the other hand, I do not agree with you. To refuse to touch it or to make transfers between the first and second pillars does not, in my view, constitute a lack of courage or a sign of immobilism. The specificities of the territories should also be considered. The situation in the intermediate areas, of which we have spoken so much this afternoon, is in no way due to the lack of courage on the part of farmers.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u248	Do the breeders get it?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u249	No, but a strategic choice was made 15 years ago, to end a large number of farms in these areas. Today, in order to help farmers in these territories, the solution is absolutely not a redistributive payment, which would instead contribute to aggravating the difficulties.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u250	Not for breeding.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u251	It depends on the areas. Farmers who could be eligible for redistributive payments, for example through a polyculture system, would be severely penalized initially. In the intermediate areas, what I think has mostly been lacking is agri-environmental measures. That is where the main failure lies and where we must act.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u252	Mr Antoine Herth has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u253	My question comes against Dominique Potier's. When I read the figures of the diagnostic project published by the Ministry of Agriculture on the CAP being completed, I find, on average, that the technical and economic organisation of the beef and veal network has received 10000 euros of additional aid, that of the sheep and goat farming network 20000 euros of additional aid and that of the field crops 10000 euros of less aid. The policy launched by Stéphane Le Foll has therefore borne fruit. Those who wanted social justice had social justice! These three techno-economic organisations now have the same revenue envelope, between 25000 and 27000 euros – I developed this point earlier in the gallery. We cannot continue this way, except to ruin other sectors. The Minister's proposal therefore seems to me to be of common sense. It is now necessary to stabilise the reallocation of aid between the various sectors of production. This is what worries the world of livestock farming, especially that of cattle farming. I have co-signed – perhaps you have also done so, Mr Potier – a forum that conveyed this concern of the producers, because I understand it. Indeed, they face a real challenge: they must create added value by better valuing their productions. Here is my question, Minister: in addition to what we will be doing under the CAP, we will have to accompany the cattle farming sector to enable it to generate added value, although it seems that the breeders doubt their own ability to achieve this. They do not have sufficient slaughter and recovery tools; Moreover, they are present too widely in the territory and are poorly organized. How do you intend to develop a policy that will help them create products with added value?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u254	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u255	You have a thousand reasons. In the current context, some areas of our agriculture depend on the support provided by the CAP. ICHN and the coupled aids, which we talked about this afternoon, are contributing to this: they are tools that, within the framework of the CAP, can help to create value, and for my part, I deeply believe that this can only be done by starting by supporting the development of sectors. New mechanisms, operational programmes, have also been created within the CAP and farmers can choose to adopt them. Second, creating value is also done by rewarding the value that exists but that is not sufficiently recognized by intermediaries or, at the end of the process, by the consumer – this refers to the debate that we will have in June about EQUALIM. Finally, as I said, value creation can also be supported by the structuring of agricultural sectors – from upstream to downstream – through labels. I take an example: in the general states of food (EGA) – many of you have participated in it and I thank you for it – we set ourselves the goal of achieving 40% of cattle products stamped Red Label by 2022. At that time, 3% were; Today, the figure has not changed – it is still 3%. I have, however, pushed a great deal in this direction and the players in the industry know that very well; The fault is not on either side, but on the whole, from the upstream to the downstream, to the distribution. As part of the recovery plan, I have introduced funding of EUR 50 million for the structuring of sectors. I'm pushing for this to happen! I was in Lezoux with President Chassaigne to launch the so-called Lezoux road map, which aims to structure the beef sector at the territorial level. Since then, we have declined it in other territories: I grow to the maximum! Finally, you are right: we must succeed in supporting the sector with the tools at our disposal; The reform of the beef and veal UGB must also make it possible to do so. We must also fight for fair remuneration for farmers under the EQUALIM law, and we must strive to create added value within the sector. I have sometimes been a little mocked because of my call for the consumption of young cattle in school canteens. But finally, in the canteens of our breeding territories, we sometimes serve imported meat! That's the reality! In France, very little meat is consumed from the male route, so very few young cattle, whereas it would be ideal for school canteens. There is a need to support the French sector everywhere; This market is just an example, but I think it is quite speaking.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u256	Mr Antoine Herth has the floor for his second question.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u257	Last Friday, I went to Strasbourg to listen to the demands of 1500 demonstrators who had met with their tractor – the subject, of course, was the reform of the common agricultural policy. The message was addressed less to you than to the European bodies, particularly to Parliament, since it was a matter of weighing on the negotiations of the trialogue. Three subjects emerged from the exchanges that I had with them: firstly, the problem of the maize sector – which we have already discussed –, in particular the production of seeds whose plots must be sufficiently isolated from neighbouring crops, which constitutes a strong constraint in the context of possible crop rotation; sugar beet, then, which is a major issue for our territory because the decline in its production threatens an important processing tool, the sugar factory of Erstein; Finally, blond tobacco – I discovered it on this occasion –, a very environmentally virtuous crop since it requires to limit to the maximum the intake of nitrogen fertilizers and even to exhaust the nitrogenous residues of the soil – the cultivation is thus made several years in a row on the same plot. The big question asked by the farmers I have met is, how will these three particular crops be treated? Will they be considered within the spring culture bloc, or are there any ongoing discussions with the European Commission to find specific solutions for them?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u258	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u259	I met yesterday with the delegation of the beautiful territory that you represent and we were able to discuss several of the topics that you are referring to, following the mobilization that took place about a week ago. I will not go into the details of the different cultures that need to be specifically taken into account, but I would be very pleased to discuss them. The new eco-regime tool must promote diversification of crops and we are seeing the possibilities depending on the type of crop concerned: in some cases, finding a satisfactory solution is complicated and requires lengthy discussions; in others, this is simply not possible. Work is under way. You have mentioned three examples that have the merit of being quite talkative, but many others could have been. A second area of great concern is the rules of good agricultural and environmental conditions for crop rotation, BCAE 8 – you mentioned it. The Council's position, for which France had fought a lot, has so far not been taken up in the context of the trialogue, and this concerns many farmers in your territory, rightly – these rules can have very important effects. We have managed to reopen the case, but the final decision will not go back to France, since it will come from the trialogue; We are in the middle of a discussion on this and BCAE 8 is a matter of concern to me. We are fighting alongside the channels concerned and some parliamentarians are mobilized with us; On this subject, France's message is very clear. We have also mentioned the subject of beets: we wonder whether they should be integrated into the eco-regime as a type of plantation like the others, giving access to points to reach a certain level of aid. All these discussions are under way and I have them in mind.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u260	Mr Thierry Benoit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u261	Mr Minister for Agriculture and Food, I would like to ask you about a subject which has been discussed recently and which we have dealt with this afternoon very quickly: the way in which the common agricultural policy can be used in the context of the renewal of generations in agriculture. Like a number of elected officials and French officials, I am concerned about the decrease in the number of farms and farmers, and I am particularly concerned about the conversion of certain farms to plant crops. We are living in a time when many trades aspire to work less, especially in our country. About 20 years ago, we had the debate on the reduction of working time, the legal duration of which was reduced to 35 hours; Today, some propose to raise it to thirty-two hours. The breeders, on the other hand, work 24 hours a day and seven days a week for a remuneration that is still not – as has been said and you know – up to the efforts made. [[Ms. Jeanine Dubie applauds]] My question is this: can the European Union, within the framework of the CAP, with impunity continue to distribute aid which was up to a very recent period linked to the areas, whereas what must be imported is that each farmer can have a man-made farm, in which a human work unit (UTH) earns a decent income of a working week amounting to fifty, fifty-five or sixty hours? I believe that part of the common agricultural policy, particularly with regard to French agriculture and its 28 million hectares of agricultural area used (SAU), must be devoted to the renewal of generations but above all to the maintenance of farms and farmers.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u262	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u263	As I have always said, the installation of new farmers will be a measure of our success or our failure. A newspaper recently asked me how I saw agriculture in five years, in 2025; What I can say is that we will see then whether we have succeeded or not. We will have succeeded if we succeed in convincing the young people of France to invest in agriculture. Installation is therefore a key issue, especially when half of the farmers retire. I like to define farmers as entrepreneurs of the living who feed the people. Feeding the people is a noble mission to which one strives out of passion, but passion cannot do everything, especially since the living is a very complex reality which requires a mobilization of every moment. Passion cannot hide remuneration: farmers are also entrepreneurs and we must do everything in our power to guarantee them a sufficient income – the common agricultural policy contributes to this, as well as EQUALIM, and I once again welcome your commitment to this. Finally, you ask whether we should not go so far as to review the way in which aid under the common agricultural policy is calculated, by basing it on the number of assets. Again, I understand your question, which is entirely legitimate. But the difficulty is that we are in a common market: as a result, anyone who can sell his products anywhere in this market and the selling prices are finally the same everywhere, just about anything. On the other hand, the costs vary greatly depending on the country, particularly those related to assets and wages. If we started delegating funds to the different Member States on the basis of their number of assets, while the very definition of an asset – in all its dimensions – has not been standardized within the European Union, it would be counterproductive; Indeed, there are many more agricultural assets in other countries than in our own. We would no longer have EUR 9.5 billion in aid to be distributed in our production models, but much less, and part of that amount would be transferred to other countries. So we have to find the right balance. That is where we stand: we must move forward at European level to deal with these issues, but let us bear in mind that if such a reform had been endorsed now, it would have been at the disadvantage of France.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u264	Mr Michel Zumkeller has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u265	I am going to ask a question on behalf of our colleague Christophe Naegelen, who had to take care of it himself but had to give up being present at the last moment. It concerns mountain farming. As the negotiations in Brussels on the reform of the CAP enter their final phase, it is essential that the French position be aimed at preserving our mountain agriculture and defending our mountain agricultural territories in order to secure their future. As we measure it well, the ongoing negotiations are crucial, since the future of our territories depends on how you treat the aid schemes devoted to these particular areas. These various mechanisms specific to mountain farming, those of coupled aid and ICHN, must be strengthened as they accompany our farms, which are, I would remind you, an indispensable foundation of the mountain economy as a whole. The negotiation of the amount of the new CAP assures us 62 billion euros; Since this framework has been set at Community level, it is up to our country to allocate it at national level by determining the boundaries. So, minister, I have a series of specific questions to ask you: how will the difficulties faced by our mountain farmers be compensated? Will the compensatory allowance for natural handicaps paid to mountain farmers be increased? How do you intend to compensate the competitiveness deficits of farmers, whether suckler or dairy? Are green payments provided for these farmers who also maintain our grasslands? Finally, how can we encourage our food independence by helping farmers who wish to grow vegetable proteins to end our dependence on imported soybeans?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u266	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u267	During these three hours of debate, I have already had the opportunity to speak on several of the points you are referring to, including ICHN and coupled aids. You mention others, especially the issue of vegetable proteins. This afternoon we talked a lot about the common agricultural policy and that is quite normal, since this was the subject of our discussions. We also discussed two very important topics, EGALIM and our policies abroad – mirror clauses. Little has been said about a structural policy launched recently: the France Recovery plan, which represents 1.2 billion euros in agriculture and forestry, as some speakers have said, and which will allow us to invest 100 million euros in a plant protein plan. The aid will be granted to crops, livestock and also to the structuring of this sector. I believe a lot because many co-operatives and processing companies demand 100% GMO-free raw materials, that is 100% South American soybean-free. It is good to accompany this transformation; It is even better if these proteins are valued by consumers, businesses and cooperatives. The recovery plan will therefore enable us to accompany the dynamics of this sector, which, in my view, must be a priority of our action: our country must absolutely regain protein independence. The topic is important for field crops, but also for livestock farming, at a time when droughts affect grasslands and force other sources of livestock feed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u268	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and IUD-I groups]] I should like to thank you, Minister, for having answered these thirty-seven questions with patience and precision.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u269	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u270	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u271	The next item is the debate on the deployment and effectiveness of aid granted in support of economic activity in the face of covid-19. The Conference of Presidents decided to organize this debate in two parts: first we will hear the speakers of the groups and then the Government; Then we will move on to a traditional sequence of questions and answers. Mr Benoit Potterie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u272	The times are difficult for the French, for many entrepreneurs who face a context of uncertainty, and for employees who have lost or fear of losing their jobs. On behalf of my group, I would like to pay tribute to all the French who are stepping up their efforts despite the difficulties. The Government is at their side. That is why it was important to set up an ambitious aid plan. In response to the crisis, the Government's response was prompt, comprehensive and effective. We have to say hello to him. We have chosen to put in place both an aid plan to enable businesses to survive and a recovery and investment plan to prepare for the future. These aids cover all sectors and take the form of various levers: solidarity funds, partial unemployment, State-guaranteed loans and specific sectoral aid. We have changed these aids according to the health and economic context, but also to the rise of the ground. Also, despite the frailties associated with the period we are living in, our economy is beginning to recover some colors. France is one of the only euro area countries with a positive growth rate in the first quarter of 2021. A recovery seems to be beginning, with vaccination campaigns allowing companies to look at the future with serenity. This rebound is also due to the fact that we have put in place one of the most ambitious plans in the euro area, which we can be proud of. Of course, it is not enough to spend billions, we must also make sure that the aid is effective. Our group has therefore raised this debate, in order to discuss the reactions coming from the ground. If we welcome both the Government's responsiveness to the crisis and the ambition of the aid and recovery plans, we would still like to inform you of a few alert points. First alert point: the deadlines for payment of the solidarity fund. Some companies have reported delays that have contributed to pressure on their cash flow, particularly in small structures. Second alert point: some multi-entrepreneurs may be excluded from the schemes because one establishment's turnover removes another from the aid criteria. Third warning point: some sectors remain in difficulty despite the aid because the nature of their activity does not allow a recovery in the short or long term. I regularly receive messages and calls from entrepreneurs in the event sector, for example, who are in a situation of great distress. Finally, we would like to draw your attention to the issue of seasonal stocks, particularly in the clothing and travel goods sectors. This is a matter of concern for many traders, to which the Government responded with several announcements, including the payment of sectoral aid. We would like to have some details on the implementation of this mechanism in terms of amounts and timetable. Deputy Minister for Small and Medium Enterprises, I know that you are fully aware of these problems and that you are working hard to find pragmatic solutions, as you have done for cafes, hotels and restaurants. We have had the opportunity to work together on these issues. I hope that our discussions will continue in the same spirit. The next few weeks will be marked by the acceleration of the vaccination campaign and the gradual reopening of the various sectors of activity. They are a source of hope, but we must not lower our guard. That is why I will conclude my speech by making two general proposals. First of all, the exit of aid must be as gradual as possible, taking into account the specificities of the economic sectors and the territories. Companies are still very fragile despite the rebound that is taking place. The exit of aid will therefore have to be accompanied on a case-by-case basis. Secondly, we must take advantage of the context to make a gradual transition from an aid system to an investment strategy in the future. This is a project that the Government has already undertaken with regard to batteries and hydrogen. We can go even further to improve the overall competitiveness of our businesses, which is necessary to guarantee our sovereignty. We will therefore support any initiative in this direction. When we consider the first amending finance bill for 2021, our group will table amendments consistent with that vision.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u273	Mr Michel Zumkeller has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u274	Let us start with an undeniable observation: the public support of the State has limited the consequences of the crisis on our companies. In April, the committee for the monitoring and evaluation of financial support measures for enterprises, chaired by Benoît Coeuré, drew up a rather favourable assessment of this action. There could have been a boon effect: the Court of Auditors recently warned about the risk of cumulation of aid allowing companies to receive more than the cost of their injury. But in fact, companies have not rushed on all the accessible devices. It can be seen that only 3% of SMEs used the four schemes, while 21% of enterprises accumulated carryovers and partial activity. We are pleased to see that the mechanisms put in place to address liquidity or solvency issues have reached their goal. The aid benefited proportionally more from companies reporting a sharp drop in their turnover in the second quarter of 2020. The crisis caused a doubling of the number of companies that became insolvent – 6.6 % compared to 3.6 % – but the Monitoring Committee said that this figure would have tripled, reaching 11.9% without state aid. We are concerned about the decline in business profitability: in the first three quarters of 2020, the margin rate fell by four points compared to the previous year, from 33% to 29%, while gross debt increased significantly. The exit from the crisis is therefore very delicate: the effect of the crisis on the balance sheet of companies is likely to have an impact on their investment in the recovery phase. According to the Treasury, the additional debt associated with the crisis could reduce investment by about 2% in the medium term, justifying specific measures such as those taken under the Recovery Plan. In this post-crisis phase, we are faced with a dilemma: it is necessary to invest more in order to revive our economy, but also to manage our public finances well without aggravating the debt. Recall that since the beginning of the pandemic, the only emergency measures have cost a total of 206 billion euros, or 9% of French GDP. The entrepreneur must invest of course, but also be able to restart his business without being penalized by the absence or decrease of his business during the last twelve months. It is the whole issue of accompaniment that needs to be put in place. To sum up, during the crisis, we had, on the one hand, many administratively closed businesses whose main safety net was state aid, and, on the other hand, very large companies which extended their activities, since confinements had offered a monopoly to some of them. I am, of course, targeting the digital giants known as GAFAM, of which we have spoken a lot recently, when we examined a bill from the La France group that was not submitted. Amazon has tripled its sales in the third quarter of 2020. Among the favored sectors are also large-scale distribution, the pharmaceutical industry and insurance, as the rate of disjunctity fell in 2020. Indeed, the International Monetary Fund (IMF) has recently advocated the introduction of an additional and temporary tax on the businesses to which the pandemic has benefited, in order to combat the increase in inequalities and to show our citizens that everyone is contributing. We must therefore collectively consider the equitable participation of all segments of society in the national effort. That is why we propose an exceptional contribution on the surplus profits of companies in 2020, which would obviously be calculated on the basis of objective criteria. We support the policy while stressing that, in such a difficult time, it is important for everyone to take their part. We need to talk about it very freely and align the figures, so that everyone contributes to the end of this crisis and thus to the successful recovery of our economy.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u275	Mrs Jennifer De Temmerman, for the Libertés et territoires Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u276	In March 2020, at the time of the first confinement, the Government advanced into the unknown. A year later, uncertainties remain on the health front, but we still have the impression that the executive is on sight. It cannot be denied that the aid deployed was useful: four out of five companies appealed to it. Our country has been able to mobilize significant sums to protect our economic fabric. The measures announced at the beginning of the week, in particular the relaxation of access to the solidarity fund, are in the right direction. However, it is necessary to draw lessons from past mistakes, in order to best prepare for the end of the crisis and to strengthen the still limited effectiveness of this action. First of all, Minister Delegate, your original fault is not having sufficiently reassured companies when the aid was deployed. In this area, advertising effects are essential – but I will not go back to the distinction between essential and non-essential businesses.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u277	Of primary necessity!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u278	From the point of view of economic actors, the Government's communiqués were a succession of blurred, contrary and unintelligible signals. I understand the concern to adapt, but we need to calibrate ab initio aids better in order to gain clarity. Beyond the emergency measures, we can only regret the slowness in announcing the recovery plan: the problem is not that we have little time, but rather that we lose a lot of time. The U.S. plan was signed in March 2020, while the French plan was only officially specified in September for an application in early January 2021. This slowness of the past few months is repeated. Some 40 of the EUR 100 billion of the recovery plan must come from the European Union. When? While you announced that 5 billion euros would be paid this summer, we have just learned that they would not be paid before September. Should the European administrative wall curb our recovery? Every month of delay is a month lost for our economy. Furthermore, the Libertés et Territoires Group regrets that these aids are thought of at national level without adapting to local specificities. Our economic fabric is heterogeneous and the current response, a series of uniform measures, can only be failing. In comparison, our European neighbours, particularly Germany, have opted for regional differentiation. Our group had proposed to better involve communities by creating a new departmental solidarity fund for the situations left behind by the current framework – the famous holes in the snowshoe. Territorial operational support is also needed. Money is one thing, but companies also need to be guided in their efforts. This is in particular a difficulty identified by the chambers of commerce and industry. Many companies are finding it difficult to access the aid because of its abundance, complexity and constant changes. Simplifying the administrative architecture is a priority to increase efficiency. On the other hand, the effectiveness of aid depends not only on its economic effects: its overall impact must be considered. Our support for the economy must be a lever to accelerate our ecological transformation. The question of an eco-condition for aid has been addressed, but the answers have unfortunately remained too evasive. I am thinking in particular of the recovery plan and the reduction of production taxes: EUR 20 billion over two years, a missed opportunity to introduce a genuine conditionality of aid. I welcome the criteria of the European climate plan, but this support will be delayed. In the meantime, it seems that ecology and climate are not sufficiently present in the current arrangements. Finally, it is now necessary to prepare for the next phase and to avoid an overly brutal exit. An adaptation of this disengagement, particularly to preserve the most affected sectors, seems to me to be essential. Companies and workers have been able to adapt to live with the virus. It is the responsibility of the State, in turn, to learn the lessons of the year 2020. Last Thursday, the stages of the deconfinement were announced. Do you think that there will be a differentiated transition of aid between territories and economic sectors? Economic actors need opportunities to bounce back better. Public debt is often referred to; What about corporate debts? The Treasury Branch indicates that our assistance has little effect. This could affect our ability to invest in post-crisis situations. How do you think you're correcting the shot and reassuring all the companies in debt? The State-guaranteed loan scheme – 300 billion – will finally be extended until the end of the year. This is good news, but what do you think of a conversion of these EMPs into grants or their staggering over ten years? Our goal is to avoid the irreversible collapse of our economic fabric while transforming this crisis into an opportunity for social and ecological change.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u279	Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u280	For more than a year, the health crisis has made the future of small businesses and workers uncertain. For more than a year, La France insoumise has been calling for support mechanisms to be made progressive for more justice. We also call for them to be conditioned by the absence of dismissals, the absence of dividends, tax transparency, respect for human rights and that of the ecosystem. In vain. A million citizens have lost their jobs since the health crisis. While the CAC 40 has already planned to pay its shareholders €50 billion in dividends in 2021, while multinationals are getting richer, taking advantage of the crisis on French soil, small businesses and precarious workers are seeing their situation worse, and even more so in overseas countries. In La Réunion, more than a quarter of companies are planning to close down, 42 per cent are unable to pay their employees and 65 per cent of entrepreneurs are no longer able to agree on remuneration. It is in this context that you decide to relaunch your reform of unemployment which will aggravate poverty and leave hundreds of thousands of citizens without jobs on the tile, such as the 4200 employees of Lapeyre, a subsidiary that Saint-Gobain will sell to a German investment fund – it is 4200 families who rightly fear that the investment fund will not siphon the cash before liquidating the famous window manufacturer. What did you do to stop it? It is time to have the courage to ban dismissals for relocation. The French State, a shareholder of Air France, voted a bonus of 800,000 euros to the Director, despite the grant of a €7 billion EMP and the announcement of a voluntary departure plan. It is time to demand that wage differentials be regulated on a scale of one to twenty. There can be no justification for such inequalities, let alone in times of crisis. While partial unemployment has limited the break-up in the medium term, very large companies, Atos, Michelin and Capgemini, have 20,5 %, 17 % and 18 % respectively of subsidiaries in tax havens. Tax transparency must be demanded. Moreover, the scheme has been diverted in disregard of the rights of workers who, for fear of unemployment, have participated in this fraud. And it is not the reduction in the number of labour inspectors and their means that will deter dishonest employers from diverting partial unemployment, which is necessary, but whose funding is problematic. It is the state that should finance it entirely when you have made the choice that Unédic should participate in it to the tune of about a third, creating its deficit of more than 10 billion euros in 2020, which will undoubtedly allow you to affirm the legitimacy of your unemployment insurance reform. How are you going to justify the fact that you are preparing to facilitate liquidations, as required by the European Directive that non-viable businesses with no prospect of survival should be liquidated as quickly as possible? While common sense would like you to try to contain the wave of balance sheet deposits that will occur when the specific aids cease, you choose to speed up the pace. You are therefore preparing, in fact, to facilitate dismissals. Your recovery plan does not suffer the comparison, all proportions kept, with the one undertaken by the President of the United States. If you want to help businesses, therefore, support demand and citizens. You should still take the money where it is, in the pockets of the crisis profiters. The French billionaires have doubled their maggot, while the rest of our fellow citizens are struggling. Again, you are swimming against the tide, because even the IMF – which cannot be suspected of being communist – calls for a tax on crisis profitors, but also to increase both corporate taxes and the taxes of the richest individuals. Eliminate tax niches, increase property taxes or inheritance taxes. You're very lonely...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u281	The Government is not alone, the deputies of the majority are there!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u282	Ma'am, you don't have the floor! You are very alone in your blindness and Mr. Macron persists in being the president of the rich.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u283	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u284	There is little to say about the effectiveness of business aid and the legitimacy of the schemes, isn't there? By the end of 2020, grants, guaranteed loans and other mechanisms had amounted to between EUR 150 billion and EUR 160 billion. These schemes were particularly welcome for SMEs and in the sectors of activity that were very affected. All this has enabled the economic fabric to be safeguarded, which is a little counter-intuitively demonstrated by the drop in bankruptcies in 2020 compared to 2019. But the real subject is the exit from crisis and the conditions for extinguishing the devices. But isn't the considerable public effort already required to be pursued, against the backdrop of your political trajectory, which is the reduction of corporate taxes and, last of all, the reduction of production taxes of course, which is a "normal" political logic, in your view at least? Therefore, we are once again faced with a double requirement that your ministry and your government have absolutely failed to respond to: on the one hand, social and environmental compensation for aid granted to companies and, on the other hand – that has been said far beyond our ranks – a contribution that is finally significant for groups that have not suffered from the crisis because they exist, and you know that. Indeed, a number of large companies assisted by public funds did not safeguard their workforce or, of course, those of their subcontractors – in this regard, the situation in the aeronautics and automotive sectors is flagrant – and while the CAC 40 groups have made 37 billion euros of profits, certainly in decline, – Sanofi: 4.8 billion, LVMH: 3 billion, Vivendi: 2.8 billion – they will, and it is still quite remarkable, draw on their cash to deliver a total of 51 billion dividends to shareholders – Saint-Gobain triples the amount, Veolia the quintuple. You understand that, under these conditions, there is a strong demand to block redundancies in companies, especially the large companies that have been helped, and a demand for contribution from the large groups that have been spared and even calmly continued their profit-making route during this crisis. For the Communist Members, these demands are still valid, because the considerable aid expenditure cannot continue to take the same course, especially if it is maintained, because in the end it translates into sacrifices for others, in this case for employees and job seekers. You could tell me that the average salary increased by five points during the period. Yes, but workers who were laid off and who were poorly paid were excluded. At the same time, there is evidence of increased pressure on wages. Moreover, the mandatory annual negotiations are expected to take place in a very tense context. Unemployment is on the rise, inflation is at the lowest, and all this will weigh on wage developments in the coming months. A sign of the times, the proliferation of performance agreements is in addition to periods of partial unemployment which, in fact, have led to a decline in the purchasing power of employees, all on the basis of a government refusal to intervene on low wage incomes, which we have repeatedly denounced. If you are still able to save the capital of a black year – which he himself has taken care of – the employees will not bear the black year reserved for them in view of the situation in the companies. Let us remember this once again: in companies, there is capital but also work!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u285	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1263.u286	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one hours: Continuation of the debate on "Supporting economic activity in the face of covid-19: deployment and effectiveness of aid"; Debate on the law of military programming and its consequences for the independence of France. The meeting is adjourned.
