ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u1	The next item is the continuation of the discussion of the draft law on differentiation, decentralization, deconcentration and various measures to simplify local public action (No. 4406, 4721).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u2	We come to article 56 on the competences of the metropolis of Aix-Marseille-Provence and the amendments to the additional article after this article, which are considered as a matter of priority at the request of the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u3	Mr Julien Ravier, the first speaker on the item, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u4	Although I would like to commend the work done by the Government on the proposed reform of the metropolis of Aix-Marseille-Provence, which has the merit of finally existing in this decentralization text, I must express some regrets and points of disagreement. On the form, the process of working through a government amendment to your own text, tabled in a certain haste, does not seem to me to match the stakes. I also see a lack of consideration for an institutional reform that was clearly, from the beginning, in the hands of the Government – remember that the report of the Prefect Dartout was already three years ago. In essence, this is ultimately a small-scale reform.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u5	Not at all!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u6	The strategy chosen is that of small steps – even if we take what is to be taken. Contrary to what you were announcing, it is actually a reform of the competences, not of governance: nothing concrete is foreseen about the powers of compensation or even of the voting method. However, we were promised ambitious and far-reaching institutional reforms in this five-year period. For the metropolis of Aix-Marseille-Provence, this included merging the department and the metropolis or electing metropolitan councillors by direct universal vote. I also do not forget other institutional reforms aborted during this quinquennium, in particular – remember – the reduction in the number of parliamentarians, the introduction of a proportion of the general elections, and even a recast of the law on the administrative organisation of Paris, Marseille, Lyon and public institutions of intercommunal cooperation, known as the PLM law.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u7	We're getting away from the subject!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u8	Your approach lacks ambition and political courage. As proof of this, I would like to point out the constant search for the consensus that characterized the consultations that you have conducted, in order to finally settle for the widest common denominator, that is to say, not much. We will certainly be forced to come back to the reform in two years' time. Nevertheless, I recognize the effort that has been made: congratulations, Madam Minister, because there has been work.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u9	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u10	As far as the substance of the government amendment is concerned, I am generally in favour of it, with some adjustments that I will defend by means of sub-amendments – since that is how you decided to get us to work. The Chairmanship of the Local Commission for the Assessment of Transferred Charges (CLECT), first of all, cannot be exercised by the President of the Regional Chamber of Accounts (CRC): that he be associated with the work and consulted, very well, but the power of an elected official cannot be replaced by that of an official. Financial arbitration must remain in the hands of politics. I also welcome the mobilisation of parliamentarians from all sides who oppose this provision. I hope that you will be able to hear us and give a favourable opinion on the sub-amendments that we have tabled. The power given to the commune of Marseille in the procedure for defining metropolitan interest, which is similar to a veto right, is also totally unacceptable to me: it is an affront to the ninety-one other communes of the metropolis. In the present case, the rule of common law would have its full meaning and should continue to apply. Then, as I have already had the opportunity to say, I deeply regret the absence of Marseilles sector town halls in the metropolitan conference of mayors or in the reassignment of local authority competences at the municipal level. However, they are essential for the proper application of the subsidiarity principle, as they are the institutions of first-level proximity. I will not expand further: we will have an opportunity to discuss further in the context of the discussion of the sub-amendments that I will propose. I hope that a consensual spirit will animate us. The fate of my sub-amendments will depend on my vote on the Rule.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u11	Mrs Alexandra Louis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u12	We have come a long way: we have to remember, we were leaving very far to arrive soon, I hope, at the concretisation of many months of work and consultation on the future of the metropolis of Aix-Marseille-Provence. For historical reasons that became political, or vice versa, Marseille was born late, just six years ago. She was ill-born, as her late arrival confronted her with the previous existence of other local institutions, such as the territorial councils, which had each adopted their own methods of operation and practices. Everyone here knows how long the habits, once inscribed in the marble of the Republic, are lasting and especially difficult to change. According to a recipe that had borrowed from each other without wanting to deprive or offend anyone, a millefeuille had been concocted which proved particularly indigestible at the tasting. Maintaining the status quo is therefore impossible. This observation, let us say, is very much shared by the elected representatives and by our fellow citizens, who sometimes face difficulties on a daily basis and fail to obtain the answers they expect, whether in terms of road transport, maintenance of public spaces or mobility. How many times have I heard, "I don't know who to talk to, I don't understand anything about it anymore"? We have a historic opportunity to put things back in the right direction. In this regard, I would like to highlight the efforts made by the Minister and her teams to consult widely with the various actors in the territory and to seek the most balanced drafting possible, even though the starting positions were sometimes very remote. I also greet the local elected representatives who have participated, in a spirit of responsibility and in a very constructive manner, in this project, despite – that is true – some disagreements. Through the Government's amendment that we are about to consider, we are responding to a threefold challenge: simplifying the governance of the metropolis, reviewing the allocation of its powers and better thinking about the distribution of compensation allocations. With regard to governance, the removal of territorial councils would allow for a more direct dialogue by removing a step that was often screened. The objective is to promote proximity by means of a decentralization effort. As far as competences are concerned, the municipalities have strongly expressed the wish to take over certain prerogatives. The aim is to achieve a general rule that simplifies the distribution of competences without concealing the specificities of the territories. The most significant example is, of course, the road, a concern that affects the daily lives of our fellow citizens: Marseilles could regain control of its road, while the other municipalities would retain their own. With regard to the definition of the Community interest, which we will be dealing with in the very near future, I believe that a balance has been found to take better account of the specific nature of Marseilles. The representation of the city centre in the bodies will also be strengthened, since any vote by a two-thirds majority of municipal councillors representing at least 50% of the population will necessarily have to include Marseille. Some will say that this compromise text does not satisfy anyone perfectly. I will reply that it is the very nature of this exercise that wants it: to build a metropolis at last, it is above all to seek the common interest of the territory, thought as a whole.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u13	Mr. Mohamed Laqhila has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u14	First of all, I want to state a principle: it is man who makes the structure, not the other way around. The article that we are about to examine concerns the much needed reform of the metropolis of Aix-Marseille-Provence and is part of the Marseille plan in large-scale launched by the President of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u15	All right?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u16	Marseille in large, it is above all a territory. With 1.85 million inhabitants, six territories and ninety-two communes, the metropolis of Aix-Marseille-Provence is the largest in France. At the centre of our exchanges are the question of the transfer of competences from the metropolis to the communes, the future of the territorial councils as an intermediate level, the place of Marseille in the governance of the metropolis, or the method of financing the community and the communes. The task was not simple. I would like here, Madam Minister, to pay tribute to your method of work, which has reconciled listening, abnegation and availability to all stakeholders throughout the dialogue. Attentive to the demands of local elected officials and anxious to find the optimal solution that would satisfy the greatest number, the elected members of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related Democrats, as well as those of the other groups of the majority, have tabled several sub-amendments to the Government's amendment, which we will have an opportunity to discuss in a few moments. They did so with self-denial, I said, and above all with the shared desire to reform a territory that all actors and field observers readily recognize the lack of efficiency and, above all, the potential wasted. I would obviously have liked, in my personal capacity – you know that I am expressing this position, that I am not the only one to defend, since 2018 – that we go even further by simply merging the Bouches-du-Rhône department and the metropolis of Aix-Marseille-Provence. However, this bill is already an important first step forward for the metropolis, its constituent territories, their elected representatives and, above all, their inhabitants. It will be, let us be sure, the first step towards reinvigorating metropolitan territory as a gateway to Europe and a genuine economic opening to the Mediterranean, Africa and the world. Let us restore strength and vigour to the metropolis of Aix-Marseille-Provence and to all the territories that make up it. Our group will vote in favour of this article, as amended by the Government and by the sub-amendments that will undoubtedly be adopted.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u17	Mrs Anne-Laurence Petel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u18	Article 56 is the first stage of a reform which has become necessary for the metropolis of Aix-Marseille-Provence. Since the failure of the metropolis was shared by the ninety-two mayors, it became urgent to break with the immobilism that had settled since 2015. The bill, including future section 56, which has been the result of local consultation since the beginning of the quinquennium, gives us an opportunity to do so. Here I would like to thank you sincerely, Minister, for this and to pay tribute to the listening and dialogue that has been taking place for months between the Government and the local elected representatives. I would also like to point out that my fellow Members of the majority and I have worked constructively...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u19	And not the others, maybe? It doesn't start well!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u20	... to bring together opinions that are sometimes difficult to reconcile. You've been able to listen to the climbs of the terrain that we've relayed. The sub-amendments that have been tabled are proof of this. So yes, if differences of opinion persist, the elected representatives, aware of their responsibility and in a constructive spirit, are keen to seize the opportunity given to them to change the metropolis, in the interest of the nearly 2 million inhabitants who live and work there. Your listening has been appreciated and recognized. Thank you. We have, in the framework of the finance bill, dedicated credits to the schools of Marseilles, but also to the transport of the metropolis. In addition, there is State support for housing, integration and employment. The metropolis of Aix-Marseille-Provence is France's second largest population, but it is the largest – twice as large as the Greater London – and has very strong inequalities. Its unique polycentric nature also makes public policies much more complex to deploy than elsewhere. This first stage will first clarify the competences between the metropolis and the communes, and better distribute them. The mayors wanted to recover or retain local skills. This will be done, for example in the area of roads. The need to discuss the definition of metropolitan interest will also be enshrined in the law, which is a prerequisite for any evolution. The text also makes a major change in the law that will enable the city to gain in efficiency and capacity to act to accelerate its achievements, particularly in the field of transport: I am referring to the abolition of the territorial councils. Again, listening to elected officials was exemplary. If there are still some reservations, the elected representatives and the metropolitan executive must now build together a deconcentrated organization, which will allow the dialogue and action between elected officials and the administration to be fluidized. Thanks to this first stage of the reform and unprecedented financial support, the State shows that it stands alongside the elected representatives and citizens of the metropolis to build and advance the territory, in the general interest of all its inhabitants.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u21	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u22	The metropolis of Aix-Marseille-Provence is failing – not to say it is a failure. It is a mastodonte, which comprises 92 communes and covers two thirds of the Bouches-du-Rhône department, which has 119. I recall that it has been imposed on elected officials and inhabitants, in an alleged logic of power and centralization. Our territory is a mosaic territory, which, in my mouth, is a wealth, and yet it was not without cooperation since there were six institutions of intercommunal cooperation, some of them very old, carrying original projects adapted to the various issues, cultures and ponds of life: the Country of Aubagne, the Country of Martigues, the Country of Aix, the Country of Istres-Fos-Miramas and the Country of Salon. But no, we had to centralize everything in Marseilles. It must have been for her benefit and it turns against her. We were sold a dream and it all happened, alas, as we had anticipated. So we had to do something, Madam Minister. You have understood this, and here we are – even though discussions have been conducted, including by yourself, in the Bouches-du-Rhône – to be discussed here without a net, the Senate having already examined, but without all the provisions you are going to propose to us, a text on which the urgency has also been declared... We actually have very little room to fine-tune things. Moreover, your proposal is not unanimous, contrary to what I have heard in some previous speeches: the mayors told you when you came, as well as five of the six territorial council presidents. In the end, this proposal amounts to going to the end of the logic of forced integration, centralization of powers, making the metropolis a pyramid. In my view, the metropolis must have the responsibility for the major master plans, a point which could be the subject of a broad agreement, the environment, economic development, spatial planning... It is also necessary to give back powers to the communal bloc – what you are doing in part, taking note of a situation resulting from the decisions of the metropolitan elected representatives; but you do it without going to the end, for example for road traffic, but also for other subjects, which would merit further discussion. And at the end of the day, you choose to remove an element that has made reform a little acceptable and not run completely for disaster: the territorial councils. This is an incomprehensible choice for me, because you know that the cooperation imposed on ninety-two communes in our territory cannot be an end in itself and that cooperation between the various communes – in our department and beyond – is also necessary.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u23	The territories are places for the development and construction of a common policy. We run the risk of weakening existing cooperation. You are telling us that you want to deconcentrate a number of services while also recentralizing, since you are abolishing the level of the territorial council, which may ultimately return to strengthening administrative power at the expense of democratic life and its vitality. We do not want to be administered: we want to be able to live up to local democracy fully. Finally, the question of financial resources remains. It is not settled, which leaves a doubt about the decisions that our Assembly will take today, and it is very concerned, whether one thinks of the old idea of always drawing a little further from the resources of the communes or of the decision to have the President of the Regional Chamber of Accounts chair the CLEC, a fairly eloquent symbol of a form of administrative takeover of issues which are of a political nature. It is therefore not a compromise for us, but rather a disappointment. You could listen even better to the elected representatives of our territory. The perspective is not clear: where are we going? What's the plan? Some speak of ending the status of public institution of intercommunal cooperation of the metropolis in order to make it a community overlooking the communes. In my view, this is not the right direction. We have to fix it first. I think that is possible, and I will make proposals during this debate to make the amendment that you put on the table more acceptable and more effective.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u24	Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u25	Here we go. Allow me to greet all my good colleagues from Bouches-du-Rhône, as well as the Member of Parliament for Vaucluse concerned with this metropolis. This is certainly a territorial specificity, as shown by the number of Members of the Bouches-du-Rhône who are present this evening, but it is above all a national, European and Mediterranean issue, which makes it necessary to meet the expectations of our fellow citizens. As the adage says, "better late than never," minister. I recall our first meetings, in September 2017, at the Prime Minister's office, the mobilization of elected representatives from all sides to change – already – this metropolis, the mission of the prefect Dartout, more than three years ago... All this in order to bring about a late amendment, a few blocks from the end of our term of office. I will obviously mobilize to get the best of this amendment. But the question of fusion and its perimeter is still before us. I am thinking in particular of Pertuis, a pivotal city of Vaucluse included in the metropolis: the surrounding villages, which are excluded from it, can no longer work in the same way with it, since it is oriented towards the metropolis. When I told a senior official – whose name I will keep – that the city of Pertuis should not be in the metropolis, he replied: "Indeed, but it would cost 40 million euros to undo its link with the metropolis. The question is: are 40 million euros worth more than the search for coherence? This may not be tonight's debate, but I wanted to say a word about it. If we cannot build this metropolis on its natural bases, we can also regret that the very structure of the election of metropolitan councillors is neither fair nor fully democratic. I have always been for direct voting and for balance in the distribution of seats. However, Madam Minister, the rapporteur, the rapporteur Jacquier-Laforge, we will benefit from taking these very small steps, even if the essential thing is still before us to make the metropolis of Aix-Marseille-Provence the southern gateway of Europe, a force for the Mediterranean and, above all, a territory at the service of its inhabitants, who need jobs, transport and housing. Let us never forget that this territory has the biggest housing deficit in France: four social housing units per 100 inhabitants are missing in the only Aix country! It is of course a matter of making this metropolis a place where it is a good place to live and where public services resume their place.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u26	Mr Jean-Marc Zulesi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u27	Article 56 is part of our common desire to give new life to the metropolis Aix-Marseille-Provence. We owe it the best, because it is the gateway from the Mediterranean to our territory. That is why the President of the Republic launched the Marseille Plan in large, with very strong announcements that were translated directly into the latest finance bill. National representation responded to our challenges. This article reflects the desire to give local elected officials, who have been asking for it for a long time, more local skills. The abolition of territorial councils will thus increase the visibility of public action. And then, the financial relations between the metropolis and the municipalities will now be healthier. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] In the end, what is at stake tonight is the future of a territory with multiple assets, it is the future of our citizens. Let us not forget that we want to develop with the mayors this metropolis of projects, that metropolis of citizens that our territory deserves. That has been said, Madam Minister, but let me repeat: I welcome the collaborative work that has been carried out by you and your services, and of course the role that parliamentarians have played in being closer to the territory and listening to the words of local elected representatives. A big thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u28	I have before me an amendment, No 3344, which is the subject of many sub-amendments. The Minister for Territorial Cohesion and Relations with Local and Regional Authorities has the floor to support it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u29	Allow me, Madam President, to make a generic statement in advance.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u30	Please.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u31	The Government's amendment deals with the reform of the governance of the metropolis Aix-Marseille-Provence. This metropolis is the largest in France; It comprises ninety-two communes and 1.9 million inhabitants, almost half of whom live in Marseilles. The challenges of this basin of life are immense, as you have said, whether it is the very precariousness of certain neighbourhoods, the ecological transition, the preservation of exceptional landscapes, its international influence or, of course, the daily life of metropolitans, which refers to issues of mobility, road, housing, education and security. In order to respond, metropolitan action must be combined effectively with the action of the municipalities. However, everyone recognizes this today, the metropolis is severely hampered by its very particular mode of governance, which has an intermediate level between the metropolis and the communes, namely the territorial councils. From the first reading in the Senate, I opened the business with the senators, with the president of the metropolis and with the mayor of Marseilles. The President of the Republic, at the announcement of the Marseille plan in large, last September, made this reform a priority which should enable to accompany the massive effort of the State in the territories. My ministry has since worked very closely and constructively with all the actors of the territory, whether it is the president of the metropolis, the mayor of Marseille or all the mayors of the communes, including the president of the Association of Mayors of Bouches-du-Rhône, as well as all the parliamentarians of the territory of all political groups,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u32	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u33	...and of course the rapporteurs. I have visited Marseille three times over the last few weeks, including twice to accompany the President of the Republic, and I return there this Monday with the Prime Minister. I have met with all the mayors of the territory in the presence of parliamentarians, and I would like to acknowledge the work done by local elected officials, members of Parliament and senators, their sense of responsibility and the quality of the proposals they have put forward. This work of consultation has led to the proposals that I submit to you, which are structured around three axes: firstly, to simplify governance in order to restore efficiency to public action by the abolition of territorial councils; Second, to restore the skills of local communities and to strengthen the city's strategic skills; Finally, to create the conditions for a rebalancing of financial relations between the metropolis and the communes by giving themselves time for collegial work, on the basis of an objective understanding of the situation. These various proposals are, I believe, balanced; They cannot give full satisfaction to each actor, but they are marked by the concern to find, point by point, the right compromise. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Mr Olivier Becht also applauds]] Many sub-amendments have been tabled, in line with the collective work we have been doing together for several months, to further improve this text. The Government will obviously not be in favour of everyone, as the overall balance of the system that has been built step by step must be preserved; But each of these sub-amendments is important in the debate we are starting. I say it with great sincerity, and I thank their authors, because they enable us to fully inform the stakes of this important reform for the metropolis of Aix-Marseille-Provence and for its inhabitants.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u34	We come to the sub-amendments to Amendment No 3344. I have two identical sub-amendments, Nos 3479 and 3541. Mr Jean-Marc Zulesi has the floor to support sub-amendment No. 3479.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u35	It aims not to limit the competence of tourism to the member communes set up as tourist resorts and to allocate it to all the communes.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u36	Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to inform you that, on Amendment No 3344 and on Subamendments Nos 359 and 3500 and 3511, I am seized by the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left of requests for public ballots. Votes are announced in the National Assembly. I call Mr Dharréville to support sub-amendment No. 3541.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u37	It makes it possible to restore tourism competence to all communes: it would no longer be reserved only for member communes set up as tourist resorts. I insist on this, Madam Minister, because the Government's amendment reads as follows: "In case of loss of classification in tourist resorts, the deliberation of the municipal council by which the municipality has been restored or retained the competence "promotion of tourism, whose creation of tourist offices " ceases to produce its effects and the competence is fully exercised by the metropolis in place of the municipality. » In our view, it is necessary for the major tourist stations to continue to exercise this competence, but the unclassified communes of the department should be able to exercise it as well. The management of a tourist office is sometimes better when dealing with local actors, by mobilising them around tourism actions at the level of a municipality or territory comprising several communes. The municipalities would therefore benefit from tourism competence, even if they could pool it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u38	We come to a series of three identical sub-amendments, Nos. 3516, 3544 and 3552. I call Mr Guy Teissier to support sub-amendment No. 3516.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u39	It aims to extend the power of restitution by the metropolis Aix-Marseille-Provence of the competence "promoting tourism, including the creation of tourist offices" to all tourist communes within the meaning of Article L. 133-11 of the Tourism Code, in addition to municipalities established as tourist stations pursuant to Article L. 133-13 of the same Code. It is a question of re-establishing a form of equality, without assigning tourism competence to all the municipalities – which would deprive the metropolis of its meaning in this respect. Important coordination is necessary for the metropolitan area to radiate not only within its territory, but also beyond the national and international levels. The centrality organization of the metropolis is necessary.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u40	Mr Jean-Marc Zulesi has the floor to support sub-amendment No. 3544.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u41	It aims to broaden the scope of tourism competence. However, the communes must be accompanied when they are classified as tourist communes – I am thinking in particular of the commune of Saint-Chamas. I'm counting on the state services to accompany them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u42	I call Mr Laqhila to support sub-amendment No. 3552.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u43	There is a consensus on the part of our colleagues on this competence and on the restoration by the metropolis Aix-Marseille-Provence of the competence "to promote tourism, including the creation of tourist offices" to all the tourist communes, in addition to those that are already erected as tourist resorts.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u44	I call Mr Dharréville to support sub-amendment No. 359.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u45	Let me say a word about our discussion itself. I don't know how we're gonna get through this. Many sub-amendments deal with different subjects: we will have a single answer after all of them have been presented and probably some reactions, but each subject would deserve a real discussion so that we can decide. I know you'll do the best you can, Madam President, but I'm wondering. I come back to tourism. The amendment states: "Any municipality wishing to exercise this competence may make a request to the metropolitan council which is discussing it. The operative part of the sub-amendment that I tabled a little hastyly refers to the city council, but it needs to be changed: it is the metropolitan council.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u46	You have the floor, Mr Dharréville, to support sub-amendment No 3500.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u47	In the provision in paragraph 7 of the amendment I mentioned earlier on the loss of classification in tourist resorts, I propose to replace the words "stop producing its effects and jurisdiction is exercised entirely by the metropolis instead of the municipality" with the words "must be renewed if the municipality wishes to continue exercising its competence".
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u48	I have two identical sub-amendments, Nos. 3508 and 3536. You have the floor again, Mr Dharréville, to support sub-amendment No 358.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u49	Paragraph 8 of the amendment, which this sub-amendment is intended to delete, relates to the allocation at the municipal level of the competence "actions to develop the natural and landscape heritage". In this form, this provision is in fact opposed to recent laws such as the one for the recovery of biodiversity, nature and landscapes of 2016 or the so-called climate and resilience law of 2021, as well as national plans and strategies. Added to this is the fact that the initiatives already developed by the metropolis Aix-Marseille-Provence for the past five years have not been taken into account as part of virtuous approaches of intercommunal, metropolitan interest aimed at preserving the environment and the environment. I am thinking of the animation of seven Natura 2000 sites in 25% of its territory, or of the metropolitan landscape plan that derives from the metropolitan competence adopted by deliberation in 2017. There is still the metropolitan atlas of biodiversity. The metropolis Aix-Marseille-Provence exercises the competences of the realization and implementation of any plan, plan, atlas, relating to the preservation, the valorization of heritage and natural spaces, living environments and landscapes. She is responsible for the implementation, animation and implementation of projects at the scale of remarkable natural spaces.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u50	I call Mr Guy Teissier to support sub-amendment No. 3536.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u51	Paragraph 8 goes against two important pieces of legislation: the law for the recovery of biodiversity, nature and landscapes of 2016, and the "climate and resilience" law of 2021. The metropolis Aix-Marseille-Provence has been developing for five years a number of steps, which are considered by all actors to be virtuous and of communal interest, aimed at preserving the environment and the environment. The metropolis is now regarded as a natural metropolis given its natural areas, whether agricultural or marine. The National Park encompasses a considerable area, as it is both marine and terrestrial, and there are many other parks to be counted on. They are a wealth and an asset to our territories. The metropolis brings expertise to life, taking into account all the elements of its territory, with the aim of helping and accompanying the municipalities to enable them to provide the most appropriate answers to the challenges of preserving natural spaces and landscapes. For the latter, the intercommunal approach ensures the implementation of coherent strategies on perimeters that usually cover several communes, while retaining the involvement of mayors in appropriate governance bodies. It also allows the pooling of technical and financial resources. This is why the sub-amendment proposes to delete paragraph 8, which assigns the competence "actions to develop the natural and landscape heritage" to the municipalities.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u52	Mrs Anne-Laurence Petel has the floor to support sub-amendment No. 3483.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u53	It aims to retain the competence "to create and maintain the load infrastructures necessary for the use of electric vehicles or plug-in hybrids" within the competence of the metropolis. This competence is now delegated to the joint departmental electrification union, and it works. Mayors have therefore requested that this competence be retained at the metropolitan level in order to maintain overall coherence in the territory, both in terms of investment and in terms of the possible homogenisation of charging infrastructures for electric vehicles in the future. In addition, last July, the metropolis launched a call for expressions of interest to select three operators: it would not be appropriate to make any further changes in the allocation of this competence now.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u54	I call Mr Dharréville to support sub-amendment No. 3511.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u55	It is intended to supplement paragraph 13 with the following sentence: "In order to preserve the character of public administration of a jurisdiction in a territory in which it is thus insured, the Metropolitan Council may delegate any jurisdiction to the municipality concerned if it so wishes under a convention. This is a continuation of a debate that we started this afternoon. When a territory has chosen, sometimes for a very long time, to build a public management tool – I am thinking in particular of water – it is necessary to protect the latter, chosen by the elected representatives and the population, when it is challenged by a transfer of powers. That is why we propose to introduce a restriction on the provisions of paragraph 13.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u56	Mr Jean-Marc Zulesi has the floor in support of sub-amendment No 3481.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u57	It aims to restore the competence "ports and port infrastructures" to the municipalities, while leaving to the metropolis the management of ports and port infrastructures of metropolitan interest. Small harbours are big: they are big because of their originality and beauty – especially on the shores of the pond of Berre. It would be preferable for the municipalities to recover its management.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u58	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor to support sub-amendment No. 3528.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u59	It aims to recognize the exercise of the competence of the metropolis over areas of port activity only if they are recognized of metropolitan interest. Today, thirty-four marinas are located on the maritime facade of the metropolis and, with their 8600 rings, are the second largest pleasure resort in Europe. While some ports may be of metropolitan interest, which should be redefined, recreational harbours strongly linked to the identity of their city must be managed as close as possible to the territories. This is a pragmatic provision for the most efficient management possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u60	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u61	Mr Julien Aubert has the floor to support sub-amendment No. 3520.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u62	First of all, a little remark about the method. I deplore the succession of sub-amendments which make a little inventory at the Prévert and which prevent us from discussing tourism, ports or nature.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u63	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u64	My sub-amendment concerns paragraph 13 and urban planning. I come back to the particular case, already mentioned, of the city of Pertuis, in the department of Vaucluse: tomorrow, the urban planning questions relating to this commune should therefore be managed from Marseille. It is not, in my view, a good way to conceive subsidiarity. This sub-amendment proposes that the competence "local planning plan, document in place or communal map" can be returned to a municipality which wishes to do so after a discussion. For some communes, the question does not arise: they are so integrated into the Aix and Marseille bloc that it is in coherence. But for a municipality like Pertuis, there would be an interest in the particular problems of the Durance basin being managed from Pertuis and not from the Old Port.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u65	I call Mr Dharréville to support sub-amendment No. 3542.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u66	As I have indicated on several occasions, I propose to include sewage treatment among the competences left to the municipalities or the municipal block. In the metropolis, the situations are quite diverse. In the territory in which I am thinking, there is a public water authority and we want to preserve it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u67	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor to support sub-amendment No. 3529.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u68	This sub-amendment aims to clarify the distribution of housing and housing competences between the metropolis of Aix-Marseille-Provence and its member communes, in order to enable the latter, and in particular the commune of Marseille, to have all the tools available to increase the effort in housing and the resorption of unhealthy housing, priorities symbolised by the drama of the rue d'Aubagne. The competence of the metropolis in these matters would be limited to actions and operations of metropolitan interest, leaving the municipalities to implement policies as close to the ground as possible. Again, this is a subamendment of pragmatism.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u69	Mrs Cathy Racon-Bouzon has the floor in support of sub-amendment No 3487.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u70	The purpose of this sub-amendment is to clarify that the metropolis of Aix-Marseille-Provence is competent for the development, maintenance and operation of cultural, socio-cultural, socio-educational and sporting facilities when they are of metropolitan interest. In fact, whether these are some swimming pools, the Vélodrome stadium or the theatres or operas that are often located in the major agglomerations of the metropolis, they benefit all the inhabitants of the metropolis and contribute to the influence of the territory. The reform of the metropolis that we are going to vote this evening aims at rebalancing the skills and financial relations between the metropolis and the member communes in order to give back to the first all its ambition and redefine its strategic role. The cultural, socio-educational and sporting development of our territories is part of this and justifies the repreciating of the equipment that is actually of metropolitan interest.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u71	I call Mr Dharréville to support sub-amendments Nos. 3501 and 3502, which can be presented in a consolidated format.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u72	We are here, I say so that our colleagues can follow, on part of the amendment concerning the retrocession of roads. It is stated in the amendment that the metropolitan area is competent on the road when there is traffic of a public transport service on a clean site, which leads to the declaration of metropolitan interest of the road or parks and parking lots. The two sub-amendments I am submitting add that these routes are declared of metropolitan interest "if the municipality so wishes". This can only be done with the agreement of the municipality, and it may wish to do so at times. Letting the editorial staff as it stands means taking the risk of slowing down the development of clean site transport: municipalities may hesitate to go in this direction if this systematically leads to the transfer to the metropolis of the management of this road or of these parks and parking lots. It therefore seems to us that this should not lead to a systematic transfer. One can try to reach a good agreement with a commune which, within its territory, is able to know how to manage. This is true in the small communes, which sometimes have a slightly more precise view of things, but also in the big ones – and I am thinking of Marseille, where the solution I am proposing would probably suit Mayor Benoît Payan.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u73	Mr Julien Ravier has the floor to support sub-amendment No. 3539.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u74	At this point, I would like to stress what I said in my opening remarks on the article. It is not serious to legislate in this way, to introduce a reform of the governance and competences of the metropolis of Aix-Marseille by means of a governmental amendment. You have not been able to introduce it into the original bill and you are doing so through an amendment, on which more than 50 sub-amendments have nothing to do with each other. We do not have a debate on these proposals, we will not have a response from the Government on each of them and we will not even know what we are voting for. The sub-amendments will be put to the vote one after the other by the President, who may have the grace to remind us of each of them, but I am not sure that she is obliged to do so. Frankly, this is not serious, it is not a way of legislating calmly! This sub-amendment is a back-up sub-amendment, because I tabled two other amendments which were found inadmissible under Rule 45. It would appear that it would be a reform of the PLM law if we were to bring down the powers of proximity to the level of the town halls of the sector in Marseille, which is the only way to properly administer a territory as vast as Marseille. This sub-amendment was accepted because, together with my colleague, we ran away. We worked until the last minute, well forced by your "logical" of parliamentary work. This sub-amendment aims to open the dialogue on the redescent of the skills of proximity to the town halls of Marseille sector. The aim of the Government's amendment is to restore community skills at the community level. In the specific case of the city of Marseille, it is not the commune which is the level of proximity, but the town halls of area. It therefore seems consistent and logical to offer the city of Marseille the possibility of delegating these skills of proximity to the town halls of the sector. The mayor of Marseille is not called for a hole in the roadway or the cleaning of a street: the mayor of the area is always called. I salute Guy Teissier, Mayor of Honorary Sector. I have also been mayor of the sector, and I can tell you that this is the real mandate of proximity, the real mandate of mayor in Marseilles. You don't want to go down to the sector town halls. I propose that you foresee it anyway, by means of municipal deliberation, if the mayor of Marseille would wish, in his mansue, to wish it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u75	Mr Jean-Marc Zulesi has the floor in support of sub-amendment No 3480.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u76	This is a sub-amendment calling for progress on the subject of cycling, this active mobility. I am talking about the appeal sub-amendment, because it is satisfied. It is intended to complete the road layout by specifying that the road incorporates bicycles. I know that it is not easy to deploy these facilities so that they are secure and appreciated by all cyclists, but it is necessary to have a much more proactive commitment in this area.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u77	Mr Julien Aubert has the floor to support sub-amendment No. 3521.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u78	This is a sub-amendment of coherence. I understand that the philosophy of the Government's amendment is to simplify the functioning of the metropolis. In this type of structure, we like patterns. Parliament has multiplied the patterns, among others at the regional level, and everyone knows that these schemes, prescriptive but not coercive, represent a form of soft law, in Molière's language, which hinders the free administration of local authorities. In this sub-amendment, I say that there is no point in giving local authorities local authority powers if it is to tell them that the overall scheme for support policy for commercial and craft activities, the overall scheme for road transport, the scheme for the organisation of tourism, the overall scheme for urban heating or cooling systems, etc. must be respected. We pretend to give back power to the mayors, but in reality, when we apply all the schemes, they only have to obey! And as Marshal Lyautey said: "When the heels slam, the spirit empties. »
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u79	Mr Jumel, you wish to make a point of order. For what reason?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u80	On the basis of Rule 95, which deals with the examination of amendments, in order to inform the House, Madam President. [[Exclaims and laughter on various benches]] I wonder what this bouillabaisse is like. What is this thing made by the Marchers four months from the presidential election, the day after municipal, regional and departmental elections? I'm not Marseillais, but I love Marseille, and I don't understand anything in the bouillabaisse you're presenting here.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u81	It's better than that, the bouillabaisse!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u82	Nevertheless, I have the feeling that you have had a kind of deal with the president of the metropolis Aix-Marseille,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u83	Provence!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u84	...maybe in the back of the mayor of the city centre and the mayors of the surrounding cities. What's with that bouillabaisse? I ask the minister to give us her opinion on each sub-amendment in order to see, on the basis of the proposals accepted, whether the bouillabaisse is taking...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u85	It's the mayonnaise that takes it, not the bouillabaisse!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u86	...if it's good or if it's turning, if it's bad. The Marseillais seem to be enlightened: they have been gathered, although I think there are meetings with variable geometry; But here we are the Parliament, the Members who are not from the metropolis Aix-Marseille...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u87	Provence!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u88	[[MM. Julien Aubert and Julien Ravier applaud]] ... must be able to give an enlightened view, and unless I'm more stupid than average, at this moment I don't understand what's being presented to the national representation! It will therefore be necessary either to suspend the sitting in order to enable the minister to clarify the opinions she gives to each sub-amendment, or to give this opinion sub-amendment by sub-amendment, as well as the rapporteur. That is what I wanted to say about the bouillabaisse that inspires me in this debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u89	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Mr Jumel, this is not a point of order, since you spoke on the substance.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u90	Of course I do!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u91	It's cooking!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u92	I have not interrupted you, because we are in scheduled legislative time, but your speech will be counted from your group's speaking time. In addition, we follow a procedure: when sub-amendments are tabled on the same amendment, we look at all the sub-amendments and then the rapporteur and then the minister take the floor. This is the practice, even if the number of sub-amendments is, I agree with you, extraordinarily important.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u93	Atypical!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u94	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor to support sub-amendment No. 3530.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u95	I agree with what Sébastien Jumel has said: it would be interesting for the Government to give its opinion on each of the sub-amendments at the time they are presented, because they concern a wide range of subjects, all of which are the desire for a better functioning between the metropolis and all the municipalities. This sub-amendment, which takes over the work of the city of Marseille, provides that if a satellite establishment, for example a mixed economy company, of which the metropolis is a shareholder or member, intervenes more than 80% in the territory of a single municipality, the appointment of the members of its board of directors, its operating board or its supervisory board must be the subject of an agreement between the council of the metropolis and the municipal council of the municipality concerned. This is, again, the idea that public action must take place as close as possible to the territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u96	You have the floor, Mrs Rabault, to support sub-amendment No. 3531.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u97	I think you made the wrong subamendment, Mrs Rabault...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u98	It's such a bouillabaisse...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u99	I am sorry, Madam President, but I have just outlined sub-amendment No 3534. Subamendment No 3530 on sports and cultural facilities is being defended. Sub-amendment No 3531 is intended to allow the delegation by convention of competence for the creation and development of roads, including signs and public lighting, between the metropolis of Aix-Marseille-Provence and its member communes.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u100	Mrs Rabault, have you ever defended sub-amendment No 3533?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u101	No, it was number 3534.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u102	You're lost, Madam President!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u103	I do not believe that I am scrupulously the order of appeal of the sub-amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u104	You're right, Madam President, I'm the one who tangled my brushes. Sub-amendment No 3533 is intended to enable the commune of Marseille to receive by delegation from the State, under agreements, the allocation of aid to the stone, i.e. all the financial aid intended for the production, rehabilitation and demolition of social rental housing, as well as for the creation of accommodation places or those under the responsibility of the Agence nationale de l'habitat (ANAH) for the improvement of private housing. In view of the major challenges associated with urban renewal and the resorption of unsanitary habitat within the commune of Marseille, it seems important for the commune to have the support of the State, as close as possible to the territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u105	Mrs Alexandra Louis has the floor to support sub-amendment No. 3513.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u106	It concerns the competence relating to the public service of external fire defence, i.e. firefighters and fire-fighters. As the amendment currently stands, this competence is transferred to the municipality only in the course of its implementing tasks, but not in the context of its regulatory tasks. However, it is essential that this competence be fully vested in the mayor, since his police power normally gives him the possibility to exercise the regulatory powers of the external fire defence. For example, the battalion of the mariners-firemen of Marseilles is placed under the authority of the mayor of the city of Marseille. [[Applause on the benches of the Action ens group. – Mr. Rémi Rebeyrotte also applauds]] The amendment would entail the risk of a really too complex situation, where the president of the metropolis would regulate the public external defence service while the mayor would become a mere performer. That is why I am proposing this amendment. I would like to take this opportunity to pay tribute to the action of the firemen, especially today, since they intervened on a fire which broke out in the heart of the 13th arrondissement of Marseille.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u107	Subamendment No 3534 by Mrs Valérie Rabault was defended. I call Mr Dharréville to support sub-amendment No. 3503.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u108	The aim is to delete the sub-paragraphs which remove the territorial councils themselves. When I spoke on the article, I explained my proposal: your device is a challenge to the work of proximity to these areas of consultation and construction of concrete responses to the needs. This is not where the obstacle to the proper functioning of the metropolis lies. That's a little what you said earlier, minister, but frankly, it's a misdiagnosis. On the contrary, it works rather well and it gives the population services that are clearly identified. I am a little surprised by the fourth amendment, which is part of the subsequent abolition of the territorial councils: it is written that elected officials who served as president of the territorial council or vice-president of the council of the metropolis will be able to continue to perform these functions while the councils are abolished. The amendment also states that the determination of the compensation envelope takes into account the number of these Vice-Presidents who are no longer presidents of territorial councils. I'm a little surprised at this provision. I still ask you for explanations: either they are deleted and there is no compensation, or they are not, and at that time there is compensation. The device is still quite singular.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u109	Mr Julien Aubert has the floor to support sub-amendment No. 3517.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u110	Proof of the transparency of the criticism of this text, I have the same point of view as my colleague Dharréville,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u111	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u112	...and yet God knows that we do not necessarily have the same evening readings.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u113	That's too bad!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u114	The territorial councils are indeed a level of proximity. This was part of the governance pact as it had been set at the time of the creation of the metropolis. First of all, I regret the absence of a State philosophy on how these metropolises should be formed. How can we explain that the metropolis of Paris has territorial councils with well-extended competences, that the metropolis of Lyon, which is a little special, has no more, and that, in the metropolis of Marseille, there were a little lighter territorial councils that will be abolished? The very Cartesian French thought of an organized garden takes a blow in the wing, with a kind of organization à la carte according to the territories and the relations of force. Secondly, we could have – and I would have accepted – removed all the allowances of the vice-presidents and territorial presidents while keeping the structure. The citizens who follow our debates must understand this: it is not a question of defending the prebends and emoluments of elected officials,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u115	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u116	...but indeed to keep a step of proximity that allows to discuss by basin, because the metropolis is polycentric. I would have preferred such an amendment. From this point of view, it's a bit ambiguous: you keep people in positions, without knowing what they're going to do. For all these reasons, I propose that you keep the territorial councils and that we can have a debate: we can very well keep the threshold of reflection, without, however, increasing it from the entire bureaucracy that goes behind. If the idea is not retained, I will have other proposals to defend.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u117	Mrs Cathy Racon-Bouzon has the floor in support of sub-amendment No 3488.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u118	It is a sub-amendment of precision. One of the challenges of this metropolitan reform is the simplification of community governance. The abolition of the territorial councils referred to above will have to be accompanied by an effort to deconcentrate the services of the metropolis, so that they can manage in the proximity the demands of the communes. The sub-amendment specifies that it is necessary to define – before 1 January 2023 – a new deconcentrated administrative organisation of the services, not the creation of a new political level.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u119	I have two identical sub-amendments, Nos 3489 and 3537. Mrs Cathy Racon-Bouzon is still in favour of sub-amendment No 3489.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u120	In the VIII of the amendment, a new mode of deliberation is proposed for the definition of the Community interest in roads. This mode of deliberation, which is inspired by the voting procedures within public institutions of inter-municipal cooperation (EPCI), aims to rebalance the governance of our metropolis and to give a fairer place to its central city, which is now underrepresented in decisions in view of the weight of its population. I welcome this proposal and this new balancing point allowing the Marseille City Council to take its full part in the decisions relating to the development of the city it administers, for which it was democratically elected. This is in line with the expectations expressed by the President of the Republic on 2 September in Marseille: he called for a metropolis whose governance would be simplified, but also more soothed, fairer and more democratic at the service of the ambition pursued by the Marseille plan in large. In order to strengthen Marseille's capacity to act and count on the new organization of the metropolis that will have to be defined, I propose to extend this deliberative mode to the vote to determine the deconcentrated administrative organization of the metropolis.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u121	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor to support sub-amendment No. 3537.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u122	It is important that the deconcentrated administrative organisation of the metropolis of Aix-Marseille-Provence should be able to apply the same qualified majority rule as is used for the definition of metropolitan interest in competences. In concrete terms, in order for decisions to be taken, the agreement of the municipal council of the most populated municipality, namely the commune of Marseille, would be mandatory.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u123	Mrs Cathy Racon-Bouzon has the floor in support of sub-amendment No 3490.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u124	This is a back-up sub-amendment to the identical sub-amendments that have just been defended. The last sentence indicating that the majority must necessarily include the municipal council of the commune of which the population is the largest has been withdrawn. This therefore only makes the deconcentrated administrative organisation of the metropolis subject to the agreement of the municipalities obtained by qualified majority, which seems to me fairly fair, and quite classical in the light of what is being done in the EPCIs.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u125	Mrs Anne-Laurence Petel has the floor to support sub-amendment No. 3540.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u126	I propose to move forward to 30 June 2022 the date of deliberation, scheduled for 1 January 2023 in the amendment, to define the territorialised organisation of the services of the metropolis. The aim is to bring into line the operationality of the mechanisms of the abolition of the territorial councils, which is to take place on 30 June 2022, and the need for a territorialized and deconcentrated administration so that the elected representatives and the administration can better work closer to the territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u127	Mr Guy Teissier's sub-amendment No 3515 is being defended. I call Mr Dharréville to support sub-amendment No. 3512.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u128	Before defending this sub-amendment, I would like to make a proposal on the previous sub-amendments. I thought I'd drop it off, but obviously I couldn't get it recorded. Minister, according to the wording you have chosen to determine metropolitan interest, you indicate that "the majority must necessarily include the municipal council of the municipality of which the population is the largest." I think it's wrong, for two reasons. First, what does "understanding the municipal council of the commune" mean? I guess that's the majority of the city council. In my view, that should be made clear. Secondly, it is "the commune with the largest population". This gives Marseille a special right over the other municipalities. The most correct and appropriate wording is not that: it would be better to "the municipality whose population is the most affected".
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u129	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u130	I regret that I was unable to table this sub-amendment; I'm making my proposal because I know you have the power to do it. Sub-amendment No 3512 specifies that municipalities in the same territory are authorized to establish an inter-municipal union for the management of inter-municipal competence which they wish to exercise jointly. Why mention it? You have told us on several occasions, Madam Minister, that you are going down a number of powers at the municipal level, and that these powers – communal, not intercommunal – could be exercised in an intercommunal framework despite the disappearance of the territorial councils. I just want to point out that at the time of the establishment of the metropolis, a number of these unions were dismantled, including at the insistent request of the prefectural authorities, therefore of the Government. The idea was to eliminate most, if not all, inter-municipal trade unions and cooperation structures at the inter-municipal level. I would like to include in the law the possibility of establishing cooperation within the metropolitan area between municipalities which wish to do so. It would be nice to write it explicitly.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u131	I give you the floor to support sub-amendment No 3543, Mr Dharréville.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u132	This is a fallback sub-amendment, in case you do not adopt the one to leave the territorial councils in operation. I propose to establish territorial conferences bringing together the metropolitan elected representatives of each of the former territorial councils of the metropolis. These territorial conferences would be based on opinions on decisions that affect them, where the matter appears to require it either because of its importance, or because of a point of attention that would deserve to be highlighted, or because of a disagreement that would require questioning the Metropolitan Council. They could also make it possible to make wishes and reports on matters of particular territorial interest. In short, it is a question of recognizing the persistence of certain realities, including those in the mosaic territory I mentioned earlier, by not touching the territorial councils and by giving the metropolitan councillors the opportunity to meet, in accordance with the objective set out in the summary statement of the Government's amendment. Minister, you are proposing territorial conferences of mayors. For my part, I propose that not only the mayors, but all metropolitan councillors participate, and that this participation be included in the bill, and not only in the summary statement of the amendment – in terms that I do not agree with. The proposal I'm making to you tonight deserves to be discussed. I'm willing to amend it if it doesn't suit you as it is.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u133	Mr Julien Ravier has the floor to support sub-amendment No. 3495.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u134	It aims to integrate Marseille's sector mayors into the Metropolitan Conference of Mayors. To date, they are not represented, even though they are the first elected representatives of their area. As I have already said, it is the sector mayors who participate in the general assemblies of the neighbourhood interest committees, who receive the grievances of the population and who are questioned on the street: they are the ones who create a link between the inhabitants and the institutions. It is therefore important to involve them in the metropolitan conference of mayors, failing to give them the local skills that have been taken away from them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u135	We are now considering two identical sub-amendments Nos. 3546 and 3550. Mr Jean-Marc Zulesi has the floor in support of sub-amendment No 3546.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u136	We all share the desire to abolish the territorial councils. However, we hope that the territorial conferences of the mayors will take place as close as possible to the ground, so that all the elected representatives of a basin of life will bear witness to their specific problems.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u137	I call Mr Laqhila to support the identical sub-amendment No. 3550.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u138	With this sub-amendment, we tell the mayors that we have listened to them and heard them, and that we, like them, are attached to the bond of proximity. We are in favour of their participation, for those who wish, in the territorial conference of mayors, on the basis of the governance pact.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u139	Mr Julien Aubert has the floor to support sub-amendment No. 3557.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u140	It concerns the financial compensation to the municipalities and the revision of the financial agreements concluded at the time of the creation of the metropolis. I propose that the majority rule for changing the amount of these compensations should be based on that adopted by the Government for metropolitan interest, in order to avoid the disadvantage of some municipalities by a relative majority. I think, once again, of a certain commune of Vaucluse... In order not to weaken it, I have included in the subamendment the provision proposed by the Government for the town hall of Marseille, which is similar to a veto right. However, I would like to stress the exorbitant nature of this provision by which, mechanically, Marseilles can block everything. According to the minister's reasoning, one could have thought that it would be up to the richest municipality to have such a faculty, and Aix, which contributes a great deal to the budget of the metropolis Aix-Marseille-Provence, could legitimately have claimed this veto right. I invite you to think about it. My sub-amendment does not go back to the definition of metropolitan interest proposed by the Government, but granting a veto right to a city can only lead to blockages, in particular to the approach to elections when each territorial level belongs to a different political camp...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u141	Mr Pierre Dharréville's sub-amendment No. 3504 is being defended. Subamendment No 3514 by Mrs Elodie Jacquier-Laforge, rapporteur, is drafting. Mrs Cathy Racon-Bouzon has the floor in support of sub-amendments Nos 3491 and 3492, which can be put together.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u142	Sub-amendment No 3491 is intended to extend the methods of deliberation provided for in Chapter VIII of the General Code of Local and Regional Authorities for the definition of the metropolitan interest attached to the powers to vote for the allocation of compensation. Here again, the objective is to give the city of Marseille a fairer place in decision-making and to guarantee it a better listening within the community. Sub-amendment No 3492 is a fallback sub-amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u143	I have before me four identical sub-amendments, Nos 3485, 3493, 3507 and 3522. Mrs Anne-Laurence Petel has the floor in support of sub-amendment No 3485.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u144	He's out.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u145	Mr Julien Ravier has the floor to support the identical sub-amendment No. 3493.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u146	We are dealing here with a particularly important subject. The purpose of this sub-amendment is to repeal Article 56, paragraph 48, which, by way of derogation, sets up the president of the Regional Chamber of Accounts as chairman of the local committee for the assessment of transferred charges, which is responsible for determining the costs of the expenses inherent in the transfers of powers provided for in 2023. For a large number of mayors and metropolitan councillors, of whom I am a member, there is no justification for this derogation, which undermines the sovereignty of local elected officials. Under ordinary law, the president of the CLECT is freely elected from among its members. The local elected members of the CLECT are no less competent or legitimate than the local elected representatives of the other territories. The possibility of replacing a local elected official with an official reflects the desire to put the metropolis and the mayors under control in view of the transfer of powers of 2023. This is at least how mayors and metropolitan councillors understand this provision. That the State wishes to involve the CRC exceptionally in the work of the CLECT is a good thing, especially in the event of a blockage – blocking will undoubtedly occur when the discussions focus on financial distribution. On the other hand, the replacement of a local elected official by a civil servant, even if he is very competent, is not acceptable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u147	The identical sub-amendment No 3507 by Mr Pierre Dharréville is being defended. Mr Julien Aubert has the floor to support sub-amendment No. 3522.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u148	I am not known for my hostility to the body of financial magistrates since I came out of it. I also have very good memories of my visit to the regional chamber of accounts Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur. The provision in paragraph 48, however, was strange. When, tomorrow, the regional chamber of accounts will control the metropolis, it risks being in the position of judge and party. How can its president, who has previously arbitrated the transfer of expenses, then evaluate a report on how these transfers have been made? There is something here, to say the least, benign or, to put it another way, quite baroque! Surprisingly, a government that always talks about reviving the air of local communities...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u149	Not always!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u150	... suggests returning to a form of community administration. Curiously, you did not propose to entrust the chair of the CLECT to the prefect,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u151	We can do it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u152	Don't tempt us!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u153	...but the temptation is not far away! I have nothing against the prefects, and the previous system did not work so badly, but we chose to change it: then, go to the end of the logic! The elected representatives of the Marseille metropolis are just as able as their counterparts to assess their burdens and agree on a budgetary and political balance.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u154	Mr Julien Ravier has the floor to support sub-amendment No. 3497.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u155	He proposed a solution to the problem raised by the previous sub-amendments by changing the role of the Regional Chamber of Accounts in the CLECT and by replacing the chairmanship of the committee with an opinion of the president of the Regional Chamber of Accounts, with the aim of helping the CLECT to take the right decisions in case of blockage.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u156	Ladies and gentlemen, on sub-amendment No 3545, I am in the process of requesting a public vote. Similarly, on sub-amendment No 3559, I have a request from the Libertés et territoires Group for a public vote. Votes are announced in the National Assembly. We come to two identical sub-amendments Nos. 3545 and 3549. Mrs Anne-Laurence Petel has the floor to support sub-amendment No. 3545.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u157	It aims to abolish the presidency of the CLECT by the president of the Regional Chamber of Accounts for the transfers planned in 2023. This transitional mechanism contained in the Government's amendment is considered by the majority of elected officials as exorbitant to the ordinary law and does not reach consensus. It therefore seems preferable to stick to the existing system whereby the committee elects its chairman and vice-chairman from among its members. The Regional Chamber of Accounts must, however, be seized by the President of the CLECT and deliver its opinion, prior to the meeting of the committee responsible for assessing the cost of the charges transferred. This notice will inform the CLEC about the cost of these expenses before it meets.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u158	I call Mr Laqhila to support the identical sub-amendment No. 3549.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u159	[[Smile]] That has been recalled, one cannot both be a judge and a party. And on this point, for once, all those elected in Marseille agree and share the good bouillabaisse! I therefore also propose that the President of the Regional Chamber of Accounts should abolish the CLECT presidency and return to ordinary law.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u160	Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor to support sub-amendment No 306.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u161	When the rapporteurs and the minister express their opinion on all these sub-amendments, I hope that they will examine the situation as a whole. I have noted, indeed, that my two colleagues in Aix have tabled identical sub-amendments concerning the metropolis Aix-Marseille-Provence, which will certainly be adopted since they are the subject of a public vote. Their defense is however delicate. The local situation is complex enough, in fact, not to complicate it further by adopting the provision they propose. That is the meaning of my sub-amendment, which simply seeks to replace the word "chairs" with the words "participates as a trusted third party in the work of" the committee. While it is problematic for a senior official to preside over the CLECT, the Regional Chamber of Accounts is expected to participate in its work as a trusted third party. The clearer and more legible the bill, the better it will be understood and applied in the field. This is in any case the objective of my sub-amendment on this thorny subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u162	Mr Jean-Marc Zulesi has the floor to support sub-amendment No. 3482.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u163	It aims to establish a co-chair of the CLECT between the president of the Regional Chamber of Accounts and a member of the board of the metropolis appointed by his peers. It is very important that local elected officials take part in decisions concerning their territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u164	Mrs Anne-Laurence Petel has the floor to support sub-amendment No. 3484.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u165	He's out.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u166	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor to support sub-amendment No. 3532.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u167	It aims to clarify that the qualified majority required for the redefinition of metropolitan interest, including a veto right of the city of Marseille, applies to all the competences for which this redefinition is open.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u168	We come to two identical sub-amendments Nos 3486 and 3494. Mrs Anne-Laurence Petel has the floor to support sub-amendment No. 3486.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u169	It removes the mayor of Marseille's right of veto over the determination of metropolitan interest. This provision seems excessive to a large number of mayors and creates an unbalanced balance of power within the metropolis Aix-Marseille-Provence for the benefit of the city of Marseille. Together with my colleague Jean-Marc Zulesi, co-signator of the sub-amendment, we therefore call for the deletion of this provision.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u170	Mr Julien Ravier has the floor to support sub-amendment No. 3494.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u171	It is the same as Mrs. Petel's. We really want to remove the veto power granted to the town hall of Marseille with regard to the definition of metropolitan interest. How could a single municipality, even the most populated in the metropolis, have such authority over metropolitan interest? It is the metropolitan councillors who must define it, according to a rule of common law that exists. Moreover, the city of Marseille has a large number of metropolitan councillors within the metropolis; It could work very well in this framework to get the definition that suits it. I would add that the adoption of such a measure would give Marseille the right to veto a project of metropolitan interest concerning a territory other than its own. Honestly, I want this to be the result of an agreement with the mayor of Marseille, but it's a bit of coffee, even for an elected Marseilles like me.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u172	I have two identical sub-amendments, Nos 3547 and 3551. Mrs Cathy Racon-Bouzon has the floor in support of sub-amendment No 3547.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u173	It provides that, within one year of the publication of this Act, the Metropolitan Council shall decide on the revision of the scope of the metropolitan interest attached to the exercise of the competence "construction, development, maintenance and operation of cultural, socio-cultural, socio-educational and sporting equipment".
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u174	Subamendment No 3551 by Mr Mohamed Laqhila is being defended. Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor to support sub-amendment No. 3559.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u175	We have just witnessed a rather fabulous exercise: the non-Marseillais shoot at Marseille so that she cannot occupy the place that belongs to her. I still remind you of the totally unbalanced representativeness of Marseilles which was endorsed under the previous legislature! Indeed, given its demographic weight, the number of representatives it has within the metropolis is proportionally much lower than that of the other ninety-one municipalities that make up it. You have to say it! When I see that some continue to shoot red balls at Marseille, I think that we are still very far from the construction of a real metropolis Aix-Marseille-Provence. I therefore call for reason, particularly for our colleagues in the majority, because it is with them that we will succeed. But I also turn to the opposition, the parliamentary opposition as well as the Marseille opposition, to my colleagues on the right, who suddenly seem to no longer want to build centrality around Marseilles when they have been doing so for years when they were in command.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u176	That's right! It's the Lyonnais syndrome with Collomb!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u177	There was a sudden turnaround on July 4, 2020, after Michèle Rubirola's clear and clear victory in the Marseille municipal elections. While it was the strength of the territory, Marseilles should now be driven away, if we believe the right-wing opposition within the metropolis. This sub-amendment seeks to return to greater coherence in the construction of the metropolis. For my colleagues who do not come from Bouches-du-Rhône, I would point out that its perimeter includes the commune of Pertuis, located in the Vaucluse. Pertuis is the municipality-pivot of a canton, the driving force around which small villages gravitate and which allows them to develop in a balanced way. Well, the integration of Pertuis into the metropolis leaves these surrounding villages orphaned, which are now deprived of a common building force; the mayor of Pertuis thinks more about integrating himself into the metropolis and fighting against the administration of Marseille than to support his territory. Let us therefore return to more coherence: the metropolis Aix-Marseille-Provence must not exceed the perimeter of Bouches-du-Rhône.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u178	Mrs Cathy Racon-Bouzon has the floor in support of sub-amendment No 3498.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u179	This is a request for a report, which aims to assess the measures of the reform we are voting on this evening and to make it a step in a longer process. We want to collectively pursue the reform effort of our metropolis and make proposals before its next renewal, in order to further improve its functioning, in particular with regard to its organisation, governance, scope and mode of election. Some ideas had already been proposed by the Prefect Dartout more than two years ago; The report that I am asking for here, which will have to be delivered before 31 July 2023, will provide an opportunity to deepen them and prepare for possible future reform.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u180	I call Mr François-Michel Lambert to support sub-amendment No. 3505.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u181	It also aims to enable a dynamic approach to future metropolitan governance based on co-construction. He therefore proposed to indicate that the present reform was only a step in improving the functioning of the metropolis Aix-Marseille-Provence, and that another stage would have to be completed before the end of 2025.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u182	Mr Julien Aubert has the floor to support sub-amendments Nos. 3519 and 3518, which can be put together.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u183	They aim to repel the disappearance of the territorial councils in time. I would also like to respond to Amendment No 3559, which would exclude Pertuis – who is in my constituency – from the metropolis. First of all, I would remind my colleagues that Saint-Zacharia, who is in the Var, is also concerned. Second, the Pertuisians would indeed be delighted to leave the metropolis, but on condition that the State undertakes to pay the 40 million euros that Pertuis should pay towards it, in respect of the transfers that have been granted to it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u184	I don't know where it came from!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u185	If the State undertakes to neutralize the exit cost, the option is on the table! Between excessive centralization and recognition of a separate communal status, I believe that the Pertuisians will be able to make their choice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u186	[["Ah! » on the benches of the LaREM group. – Mr. Christophe Jerretie applauds]] We are done with the sub-amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u187	An hour's response!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u188	Mrs Élodie Jacquier-Laforge, rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, has the floor to give the opinion of the Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u189	I will try to be as clear as possible, both to introduce the amendment – which has already been done by the minister – and to give the committee's opinions on each of the sub-amendments, which I have tried to group into themes.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u190	Madam rapporteur – this is also true of the minister – the main point, when you give a favourable opinion, is that you indicate the number of the sub-amendment concerned, each time, so that things are clear with a view to voting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u191	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u192	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u193	I will specify both the number and the author – and even the authors – of the sub-amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u194	Do as you wish, but the number and the first signatory will suffice!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u195	As the minister pointed out – I, too, allow myself to do, since this is my first speech – Amendment No 3344 was the result of broad consultation, which involved all local elected representatives, and in particular the parliamentarians of the metropolis Aix-Marseille-Provence. It proposes an ambitious evolution of the second metropolis of France, which consists of three points. First of all, it introduces a change in governance by removing the territorial councils, which are currently modelled on the perimeter of the former EPCIs to which the metropolis has replaced – I would point out that this amendment is accompanied by transitional provisions – and by entrusting the council of the metropolis with the task of determining the territorialized organization of services. It then changes the division of responsibilities – we talked a lot about it when we looked at the sub-amendments. On the one hand, he attributed to the communes the skills of proximity, which was expected – many speakers recalled by referring to the report of the prefect Dartout. This applies in particular to roads, even if a possibility of delegation is introduced for the maintenance of the road of metropolitan interest, but also the spaces dedicated to travel or defence against fire and support for economic activities which are not of metropolitan interest. The metropolis also had real room for manoeuvre that it had been deprived of until then. The amendment provides for the definition of metropolitan interest by a reinforced majority, which must include Marseille, the city centre, in terms of road traffic and travel. Finally, you understand, it aims to rethink and rebalance the financial relations between the metropolis and the communes. I therefore come to the sub-amendments. You have realized that there were many of them, and that is quite normal since the subject is essential. I am, of course, in favour of my drafting sub-amendment No 3514, as well as the identical sub-amendments No 3516 by Mr Teissier, No 3544 by the Republic on the move and No 3552 by the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related Democrats, which extend the allocation of 'tourism' competence to tourist municipalities, which will satisfy other sub-amendments. The same applies to the sub-amendment on consistency No. 3513 of Mrs Louis, which deals with the competence "external fire defence".
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u196	You're in favour of all the people you're saying, aren't you?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u197	I give an opinion in favour of all the sub-amendments I am quoting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u198	I ask the question because you give the number but do not necessarily say if you are in favour of it, or if you only say it afterwards.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u199	I started by saying that I was listing all the sub-amendments that I support. So, Madam President, I think that is clear to all of our colleagues.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u200	We understood very well!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u201	[[Smile]] I think this is likely to lead to recourse to the Constitutional Council.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u202	[[Pierre Dharréville makes a sign of denial]] Thank you, let's go! I also give a favourable opinion to sub-amendment No 3515 by Mr Teissier, which sets 1 July 2022 the deadline by which the territorialised organisation of the services of the metropolis will have to be stopped, coincident with the disappearance of the territorial councils; An opinion also in favour of the identical sub-amendments Nos 3546 and 3550 of the working Republic and the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats, which enshrine the possibility of creating territorial conferences of mayors – I hope this will satisfy other sub-amendments, including those of Mr Dharréville, even if he does not seem to agree. A favourable opinion is also given to sub-amendments Nos. 3545 and 3549 of the La République en marche and Mouvement Démocratique groups, which relate to the well-known CLECT, the committee responsible for assessing the charges transferred. They aim to return to the ordinary law, by entrusting the chairmanship of this commission to one of its elected members, while providing for referral for opinion to the CRC, which will thus bring its expertise to the benefit of the CLECT. Here too, I hope, such a measure should satisfy the objective pursued by several sub-amendments which concerned the presidency of the CLECT.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u203	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u204	Finally, I am in favour of sub-amendments Nos 3547 and 3551 of the groups The Republic on the move and the Democratic Movement, which aim to revise the field of metropolitan interest in sports and cultural equipment within a certain period of time – they too should satisfy other sub-amendments. I also express a wisdom opinion on the identical sub-amendments No 3508 by Mr Dharréville and No 3536 by Mr Teissier, which propose that the competence relating to natural and landscape heritage be retained in the metropolis.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u205	Right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u206	It will also be a wisdom opinion on Mrs Petel's sub-amendment No 3483, which deals with charging infrastructure – in fact, the costs can be difficult to bear by the municipalities. Finally, I come to sub-amendment No 3498, since it calls for a report which will be useful; However, I ask her author, Mrs Racon-Bouzon, to postpone the deadline of 31 July – which seems a little close to us to carry out the desired evaluation – to 31 December 2023. I therefore call for the withdrawal of all the other sub-amendments. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups. – Mr Guy Teissier also applauds]] I then invite you to adopt the Government's amendment, as amended and enriched by the proposals made by the majority and the opposition, on which I express a favourable opinion. Thank you for your great attention, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u207	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u208	All this was very clear. Madam Minister, we now wish to hear the Government's opinion on these sub-amendments, wishing that your presentation is roughly the same as that of the rapporteur, for our understanding!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u209	Of course. If you don't mind, Madam President, I will be sitting on the bench so that I can have a set of sub-amendments in front of me. As far as tourism is concerned, I agree with most requests. I propose to the authors of the various sub-amendments on the subject that we endorse Amendment No 3516 by Mr Guy Tessier, the wording of which seems to me to be the best. With regard to sub-amendment No 3483, which tends to leave to the metropolis the competence "to create and maintain the load infrastructures necessary for the use of electric vehicles or plug-in hybrids", I rely on the wisdom of your assembly. I also give a wisdom opinion on identical sub-amendments Nos 3536 and 308. And I'll stay there...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u210	Do I therefore have to understand that, on all the other sub-amendments, your opinion is unfavourable?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u211	Attention, this is an unfavorable opinion only on the first amendments, which concern tourism.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u212	I don't understand it, and the Constitutional Council may not understand it either!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u213	I call for the withdrawal of sub-amendment No 3511 which allows the delegation of powers to the municipalities whose exercise is planned at metropolitan level; Failing that, adverse notice. This is contrary to our approach. I have heard requests for proximity to the exercise of certain powers in the territory of the metropolis, but the amendment submitted by the Government will enable it to be responded to in a pragmatic way, following an in-depth consultation with local actors. I propose the withdrawal or rejection of sub-amendment No 3481 to establish a port and port infrastructure competence and to subject it to metropolitan interest. For metropolises, this competence belongs to the block "creation, planning and management of areas of industrial, commercial, tertiary, craft, tourist, port or airport activity. This is also the case for communities of communes and agglomeration communities. This sub-amendment makes the competence for areas of economic activity separable, which is not possible. My opinion is the same for sub-amendments Nos 3528 and 3520. Mrs Rabault, your sub-amendment No 3529 tends to make the competence for housing policy, including the improvement of the built housing stock, subject to recognition of metropolitan interest. I share your willingness to take strong measures to prevent a tragedy such as the collapse of the building on Rue d'Aubagne in Marseilles. However, as a result of the consultation that we have conducted, this policy is not among those that municipal elected officials believe they can best manage at their level. Unfavorable opinion. Mrs Racon-Bouzon, your sub-amendment No 3487 provides that the metropolitan area shall exercise the powers relating to the development, maintenance and operation of cultural, socio-cultural, socio-educational and sports equipment of metropolitan interest. This provision is common to all metropolises, including Aix-Marseille-Provence. This sub-amendment is therefore satisfied, and I ask for its withdrawal. We come to the series of sub-amendments on roads.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u214	I'm swimming... Could we have palms, a mask and a tuba?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u215	The first is No. 3501, which subjects to the consent of each municipality the exercise of this competence by the metropolis. A very clear decision was taken in this area: the "road" competence will remain at the communal level, since the great struggle of the town halls was to oppose the transfer of this competence. We specify, however, that there is a metropolitan interest in clean transportation routes. Previously, the urban community exercised the "road" competence, which was necessarily attributed to urban communities. That is why we have planned a specificity: the agreement of the city of Marseille is required to recognize the metropolitan interest in this territory. I therefore ask that this sub-amendment be withdrawn. Subamendment No 3539 received an unfavourable opinion. I call for the removal of sub-amendment No 3480, which proposes to include cycling arrangements in the road layout. It is already planned that all metropolises will exercise competence on mobility plans, which include cycling routes. This sub-amendment is therefore satisfied. Opinion against sub-amendment No 3521.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u216	Why?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u217	Because you want to remove metropolitan schemes for the exercise by the member municipalities of the competences "tourism", "urban heat or cold networks", "charge infrastructures necessary for the use of electric or plug-in hybrid vehicles", "road" and "support for commercial and craft activities". Your sub-amendment has the effect of removing the compatibility link between the exercise of these competences by the municipalities and the schemes relating to these competences drawn up with the metropolis. When a region or department makes a pattern, we know that communities have to respect it, the same goes for this case. Sub-amendment No 3530 by Mrs Rabault aims to allow the delegation by convention between the metropolis of Aix-Marseille-Provence and its member communes of the management of all or part of the equipment and services necessary for the exercise of competence in the management and maintenance of sports and cultural equipment. I propose the withdrawal of this sub-amendment, but I have heard this request for proximity, which is why I propose that you adopt instead sub-amendment No 3547, which provides that, within one year, the Metropolitan Council should decide on the revision of the scope of the metropolitan interest attached to the exercise of the competence "construction, development, maintenance and operation of cultural, socio-cultural, socio-educational and sports equipment of metropolitan interest".
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u218	It's the market on the Canebière!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u219	Opinion against sub-amendment No 3533, which opens the possibility for the commune of Marseille to conclude an agreement for the delegation of stone aid to the State and to draw up a communal agreement for the allocation of social housing. I call for the withdrawal of sub-amendment No 3531, which is intended to allow, by convention, the delegation by the metropolis of Aix-Marseille-Provence to its communes which are members of the management of all or part of the equipment and services necessary for the exercise of competence in the creation and development of roads. The Government's amendment responds to this request. Mrs Louis' sub-amendment No. 3513 is intended to restore to mayors police powers in the field of external fire defence. I am in favour of this coordination measure whereby the return of the external fire defence competence to the municipalities will be fully operational. Mrs Rabault, I am against sub-amendment No 3534, which provides for an agreement between the metropolitan area and the member commune for the appointment of the members of the governance bodies of local or national public institutions, the authorities or urban planning agencies acting more than 80% in the territory of that municipality.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u220	Why?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u221	This, of course, falls within the competence of the metropolis. Sub-amendment No 3503 is intended to preserve the territorial councils. I am, of course, against it, and also against sub-amendment No 3517, which also proposes to go back to the abolition of these bodies. Sub-amendment No 3488 seeks to clarify that only the administrative organisation of the metropolis is deconcentrated, not its political organization. He is satisfied with the Government's amendment, and I therefore request its withdrawal, as well as that of sub-amendments Nos. 3489 and 3537. Sub-amendment No 3490 seeks to ensure that the definition of the deconcentrated organisation of the services of the metropolis Aix-Marseille-Provence is subject to the same conditions of majority as those laid down for the definition of metropolitan interest, particularly in the field of road transport. I do not think this proposal is appropriate. Indeed, the definition of the deconcentrated organization of the services of the metropolis Aix-Marseille-Provence is essentially a subject of internal organization of the services of the metropolis. The stakes for the municipalities are not at all the same as those relating to the transfer of the road network. I therefore ask that this sub-amendment be withdrawn. Sub-amendment No 3540 proposes to move forward from 1 July 2023 to 1 July 2022, the date of the definition of the deconcentrated organization of the services of the metropolis. I would ask that this be withdrawn in favour of Mr Guy Teissier's sub-amendment No 3515, which is virtually identical but whose wording seems to me better – I think Anne-Laurence Petel will understand that. By the way, I would like to welcome Senator Le Rudulier, who made this request in the negotiations we had. I cannot support your sub-amendment No 3512, Mr Dharréville, in which you propose the creation of an inter-municipal trade union: we are obviously not going to re-create trade unions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u222	Are you sure I asked for this?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u223	Mr Dharréville, your sub-amendment No 3543 was tabled at the last moment...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u224	Like your amendment!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u225	It's the hospital that doesn't care about charity!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u226	It's not a reproach, but I explain why I'm looking at him! In your explanatory statement, you state: "This amendment allows elected members of a former territorial council to continue to pursue proximity policies related to territorial issues and issues. Since metropolitan councils cannot address all the issues of the different territories, it is appropriate with this amendment to leave space to give opinions and to issue reports on these territorial issues. » However, territorial conferences were established, bringing together elected representatives. I cannot therefore give a favourable opinion on this sub-amendment. Mr Ravier, I will also give an opinion against your sub-amendment No 3495, which aims to include the mayors of Marseilles in the Metropolitan Conference of Mayors, although I know that the subject of the mayors of boroughs is very important to you. Such a measure would lead to a difference in treatment between the municipalities of the metropolis Aix-Marseille-Provence, since only the city of Marseille has sector town halls: it would be more represented than the other municipalities in the Metropolitan Conference of Mayors. This difference in treatment does not seem to us justified. I give a favourable opinion to the identical sub-amendments Nos 3546 and 3550 by Jean-Marc Zulesi and Mohamed Laqhila, which recall the possibility for the metropolis Aix-Marseille-Provence to set up territorial conferences of mayors. Mr Aubert, your sub-amendment No 3557 subjects the procedure for the free revision of the powers of compensation to a majority taking into account the vote of the Metropolitan Council to municipal councils. The first paragraph of Article 1609 (c) of the General Tax Code, which you are well aware of, provides for a procedure for the free revision of the powers of compensation. In order to be able to implement this revision of the amount of the compensation award, three cumulative conditions must be met: a two-thirds majority vote on the revised amount of the compensation award; that each municipality concerned deliberates by a simple majority on the same revised amount; that this deliberation is aimed at the last report prepared by CLECT. This revision procedure implies that a municipality cannot see the amount of its compensation award revised without having previously given its consent. It has the merit of being both very flexible and protective of the interests of each municipality. It does not seem useful to me to complicate it for the whole of the metropolis, in particular by amending an amendment which deals with the specific problem of the metropolis Aix-Marseille-Provence. For all these reasons, I am against the sub-amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u227	I'm taking it off! I was convinced by the minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u228	Is he removed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u229	Mr Dharréville, your sub-amendment No 3504 aims to maintain the employment of Director General of Territorial Council Services in any case. I ask that this be withdrawn, because it would be tantamount to removing an individual guarantee for the former DGS in the territory. It does not seem to me desirable to go in that direction.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u230	Madam President, I hope you will sum up all this before the vote!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u231	I am in favour of Mrs Jacquier-Laforge's editorial sub-amendment No 3514. We come to the Regional Chamber of Accounts, which is the subject of many proposals. I call for the withdrawal of sub-amendments Nos 3491, 3492, 3493, 3507, 3522 and 3497 in favour of identical sub-amendments Nos 3545 and 3549. The latter amend the provision of the Government's amendment, derogating from the chairmanship of the CLECT to the president of the CRC, limiting its role to issuing a notice given prior to the meeting of the CLECT. The Government has planned to entrust the Chair of CLECT to the CRC President for the transfer of powers provided for in this amendment. In view of the many requests, it seems to me useful for the elected representatives of the metropolis to be able to benefit from the expertise of the CRC. In fact, CRC presidents have already recently chaired similar commissions for transfers between departments and cities or between departments and regions. Nevertheless, I hear all the comments that have been made. That is why I am in favour of the sub-amendments which put an elected member at the head of the CLECT.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u232	In my opinion, you should table another amendment to sum up all this!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u233	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] I'm almost done!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u234	It's a piece of legislation, though!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u235	Please, ladies and gentlemen, let's stay focused!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u236	I turn to sub-amendment No 3532 by Mrs Rabault, which proposes to extend the special qualified majority condition to all the competences newly subject to metropolitan interest. I ask that this be withdrawn: road transport is a structural competence for which it is necessary for the municipalities to be able to decide, since the definition of metropolitan interest is likely to grant them new responsibilities. The city of Marseille benefits from a specific guarantee, because its roadway is now entirely intercommunal while it has remained in the communes in the vast majority of cases.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u237	It's not exactly that!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u238	I also call for identical sub-amendments Nos 3486 and 3494 to be withdrawn. Otherwise, I'll give you an unfavorable opinion. I am in favour of identical sub-amendments Nos 3547 and 3551. The aim is to provide that the Metropolitan Council must decide within a period of one year on the revision of the scope of the metropolitan interest attached to the exercise of the competence "construction, development, maintenance and operation of cultural, socio-cultural, socio-educational and sports equipment of metropolitan interest". It was a fairly unanimous request. With your sub-amendment No 3559, Mr François-Michel Lambert, you propose that the municipalities included in the perimeter of the metropolis Aix-Marseille-Provence belong to the Bouches-du-Rhône department. You will understand that I cannot support it: history must be respected even if I understand certain aspects of your remarks.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u239	We've been listening to your opinions for twenty-six minutes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u240	[[Applause and laughter on many benches of the LaREM group. – Exclaims on several benches of the LR group]] I know, but what do you want me to do about it? All you had to do was table fewer sub-amendments!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u241	That is true, only the majority has the right to table amendments!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u242	A little silence, please!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u243	Mrs Cathy Racon-Bouzon, you would like the Government to submit a report to Parliament before 31 July 2023 on the application of Article 56. With regard to sub-amendment No 3498, I rely on the wisdom of the National Assembly. On the other hand, I am against the sub-amendment No 3505 by François-Michel Lambert, which aims to organise, before 31 December 2025, a second debate on the organisation of the metropolis. As some have said on these benches, we will see what the future evolution of the metropolis will be. Mr Aubert, I am against the time lag which you are proposing in your sub-amendments Nos 3519 and 3518.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u244	I'm not taking them off!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u245	All right. [[Exclaims on various benches]] Would you like me to recapitulate the unfavorable opinions?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u246	This will be the best time to review this text!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u247	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u248	Minister, I regret that you do not take into account both demographic and geographical realities. The metropolis Aix-Marseille-Provence is the only one in France where a city – in this case Marseille – accounts for more than 45% of the population. In other metropolises, the largest city – Bordeaux or others – accounts for one-third or 35% of the population. You do not want to take into account the fact that Marseille is an exception in terms of demographic weight, and you do not even give arguments to reject the sub-amendments we have proposed. You're just asking for it to be withdrawn. We do not agree, Madam Minister. This demographic reality must be taken into account. Demography is what makes our country's political reality. You can ignore it, you will always be caught up in reality.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u249	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u250	Things turned out the way I feared. In essence, I find this discussion – if we can call it that, as there has been no exchange of arguments – a little shocking. Be aware of the conditions under which we must decide on an article important for the future of our territory. Frankly, I find it deplorable. As they say at home, it's kind of the "Oai"! I do not know how you can speak, dear and dear colleagues: you will do your best. In the end, it is not up to the stakes of our territory. We have tabled several sub-amendments to open a discussion, but it will obviously not take place. However, I would like to draw your attention to three points. The first concerns the territorial conferences, which you referred to, Madam Minister, only by taking up the terms of the summary statement of my sub-amendment No 3543. I believe that there are realities that you need to reinforce because they are beneficial to the general interest and our territories. I am not opposed to the proposal you have made to establish territorial conferences of mayors, but it turns out that metropolitan councillors will be excluded. For my part, I plead that they should be included in it, so that we would preserve the existence of these territories, even if diminished in relation to the current situation. It would really be such a way for us to move forward together, and I regret that you swept this proposal away with a back of your hand: it deserved further discussion. Secondly, you have confirmed my fears by refusing the possibility of managing intercommunal competences through a union. Cooperation is currently in place, which may be strongly challenged by your amendment as drafted. As for my third point, it concerns your provision granting a particular right to the city with the largest population. I absolutely do not dispute the need for the city of Marseille to have more weight in the decisions that concern it: we have seen in the recent period that this was a real problem. I therefore agree with the spirit of the measure, but I would point out that other municipalities are potentially affected by this problem. Thus, in order to be consistent to the end, the concept of a city with the largest population should not be retained, but that of the most affected city, which, in many deliberations, would be confused with the most populated city. In the end, if we take account of the sub-amendments that you recommend to adopt, you will understand that I will not be able to vote on your amendment. I prefer the drafting of the Senate's section 56, which seems to me much wiser and more likely to open up more fruitful perspectives: I regret that we are closing them down.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u251	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u252	Mrs Rabault, I would like to go back to your assertion that we would not take into account the weight of the population. Marseille has 102 out of 240 seats on the Metropolitan Council, so demography is respected. However, under the law relating to the administrative organisation of Paris, Marseille, Lyon and public institutions of intercommunal cooperation – the PLM law – the municipal majority of Marseilles has only 53 of the city's 102 seats on the metropolitan council – the electoral law is thus done. It is therefore not so much the demographic weight of Marseilles that would not be recognized at its fair value as the results of the municipal elections, because of the PLM law. To put it differently, demographic reality is one thing, the consequences of elections are another: I wanted to make it clear, because it is a very important element. Mr Dharréville, you are challenging the fact that Marseille, the most populated city, has a dominant voice, but I would remind you that this would concern only one area: road transport. I stress this, because it is also very important. I have rejected sub-amendments aimed at extending this pre-eminence to all jurisdictions, because we have found a balance here.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u253	Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u254	I have a great deal of respect for you, Madam Minister, but it is both good and bad that you are trying to achieve, before the end of our legislature, an improvement in the functioning of this ill-born metropolis – attests to the distribution of seats on the Metropolitan Council. I will not mention the fact that with all these rules a mayor of a municipality of 200 inhabitants will have as much weight as a mayor of a city of 10,000 inhabitants.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u255	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u256	In essence, what I regret tonight, and I candidly say, is that after almost ten years of talking about this issue – we started in 2012 – we were concluding things in this way. At midnight, after two and a half hours of confused debates, to avoid talking about extraordinary cover-up, we have the future of 1.5 million people in our hands: no more or less! I would therefore prefer either to go back to the wording of the article as adopted by the Senate, or to recognize that we cannot live up to the challenges of the metropolis Aix-Marseille-Provence, that is, I repeat, 1.5 million people.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u257	Mr Saïd Ahamada has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u258	I agree with the colleagues who spoke before me: what we are doing tonight is very important. We are finalizing a device – the creation of the metropolis – that was not completely complete. We are reviewing provisions that did not allow the metropolis to fully exercise its powers and, ultimately, to serve those who reside there. In this regard, I would like to pay tribute to the one who created it, Jean-Claude Gaudin,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u259	He wasn't in the Chamber!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u260	...and this, even if it is not part of our majority. Against winds and tides, against the opinion of most of the mayors concerned at the time – some are still today – he made it exist. And I say it with all the more frankness that Gaston Defferre had, in his time, refused the creation of the metropolis. So I give back to Caesar what belongs to Caesar. I repeat, we are finalizing a mechanism after having conducted discussions with mayors and parliamentarians on all sides – and I would like to acknowledge the work done by the minister and her teams. I have rarely seen a legislative provision be discussed as much as this one: it should be stressed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u261	No! It's a joke!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u262	It should be noted that local elected officials have been widely associated. Everyone, individually or collectively, had the opportunity to say what they thought of the text. We are not here at the beginning of a process, nor at the end of it, because some elements will still evolve: we are completing at least part of the arrangements that will enable the metropolis to function better. Having said that, let me mention two elements that I think are important, starting with the "Marseille veto", since that is what it is called. Others said before me, the city is not represented to the extent of its demography within the metropolis. This is the fruit of history: for the metropolis to see the day, concessions had to be made, especially to mayors who did not want it – the weight of Marseilles was one of them. I would also point out, as the minister has done, that under the PLM Act, the elected members of the Marseille municipal majority do not weigh as much as they should. In this regard, I note that the people who are moving away from the veto of Marseilles – temporary, I recall: it runs until 2023, and which does not concern, as the minister said, that two competences, road and public spaces – do not discuss the fact, pointed out by Mr Lambert, that each mayor, regardless of the size of his municipality, will have the same weight when deliberating on other issues – no one is questioning him. That is why I believe that the veto - I would not have called it that way, but whatever - is not excessive in the construction of the metropolis, which must be based on a political agreement that respects each other. As Mrs Rabault said, Marseille is still the most important city in the city. By parenthesis, I say that I have never heard the president of the metropolis, a member of the Republicans, contest the establishment of this particularity for the city of Marseille. The second point that I thought was important to address was the issue of territorial councils. Again, I remind those who do not know that the territorial councils were originally to be temporary. We are therefore also finalizing this mechanism. I will not go back to the conference of mayors or the territorialised organisation of services, which will obviously allow us to act as close to the territories, and will conclude my remarks by insisting that the role of Marseille is of the utmost importance for the territory – that is why the metropolis is called Aix-Marseille-Provence. If Aix-en-Provence is what it is – I take this example, because it is often opposed to Marseille – it is because there is a large seaport in Marseille, because the city is crossed by several motorways and so it irrigates a whole part of the territory. Thus the abolition of territorial councils will allow all elected representatives, whatever they may be, to become aware of the wealth and interest of building the metropolis. In the words of the President of the Republic, it is necessary to ensure that Marseille becomes a "capital of the Mediterranean", that it radiates beyond the limits of the city: it will not stop at its borders – everyone has understood it well. And if we are to succeed in building the metropolis and a metropolitan identity, we must remove the territorial councils which, today, draw it down...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u263	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u264	... and give no perspective or vision for the future. Again, they had to be provisional; it is normal to delete them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u265	[[Smile]] Ladies and gentlemen, we must put the amendment and the sub-amendments to the vote tonight. I will not leave this to my successor at the next sitting: it would be a poisoned gift since I have some control over the conduct of our debates. I therefore invite everyone to speak out in a reasonable manner in view of the time that has already elapsed. Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u266	Minister, you say that the Marseille majority is under-represented on the Metropolitan Council because of the PLM Act. I hear the argument: the municipal majority has only 53 of the 102 seats reserved for the city. It is precisely in order to correct this bias that we have tabled a whole series of sub-amendments, which you have rejected without giving any more reasons.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u267	It's not the same law!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u268	I know that, but when you stack laws, you have to make them live together. In this case, we propose sub-amendments to ensure that Marseilles regains its right weight in decision-making, particularly with regard to strategic issues such as housing or certain issues relating to the port. You swept them away with a back of your hand without giving any explanation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u269	Mr Julien Ravier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u270	For once I will join the Members on the other side of the House because, frankly, we see that legislation by way of a government amendment on such an important subject is not the right method.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u271	You've already said it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u272	[[Long protests on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] As you can see, we have tabled a large number of sub-amendments, but there has been absolutely no substantive debate. You even had to sit down and give your opinion on some of them. You are in dispute, but I have not received a reply on all my sub-amendments. [[Same movements]] I shall therefore join what is said to the left of the Chamber. You should have, as soon as the bill was tabled, provided for a real mechanism to reform the metropolis, as well as the PLM law that is closely linked to it, because, in the end, it is a parody – I say parody – of legislative work that we are witnessing!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u273	[[Protests on many benches]] Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I remind you that we are in scheduled legislative time: I cannot limit the length or the number of speeches, despite the wish I have.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u274	It would have required a specific text, accompanied by an impact assessment and an evaluation of the proposed arrangements. The Minister's commitment is not at issue, but tonight's sitting is an additional illustration of the Government's vision of Parliament. You will decide on a metropolitan organization without being enlightened. [[Protests on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] [[Same moves. – Mr. Jean-Marie Sermier applauds]] In the last municipal elections in Marseille, En Marche candidates won only 12,000 votes, or 7.88% of the vote. You will decide by yourself the future of a territory in which your weight is zero!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u275	What a shame! What a fate!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u276	This is a good summary of your conception of democracy and spatial planning! A visit by the President of the Republic was enough for you to teach elected officials how to administer their territory. This is a good illustration of this legislature: it says a lot about how you approach the issues.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u277	Mr Remy Rebeyrotte has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u278	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] On the other hand, I would like to commend the Government's approach. This one did not come, contrary to what some have done here this evening, to give good or bad points on the management of Marseille and the Marseille metropolis.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u279	There would be a lot to say!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u280	Indeed, there would be a lot to say, a lot, a lot! On the territorial councils, as on the management of the metropolis and that of the city. But the Government has not chosen this method; On the contrary, he said that it was necessary to stand alongside Marseilles and the Marseillais and brought 1.2 billion euros so that the city and its metropolis could finally climb the slope and build their future, having the means to act in areas as essential as school education or mobility. That's the government's method! This required a fundamental change in the institutions and in the carrying of the necessary interventions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u281	And you do it by amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u282	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] That's what we're doing tonight. If other territories knew the same situation and could receive the same attention to get out from the top of their difficulties, believe me, they would be voluntary! It is true that Marseille and its metropolis are worth it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u283	I shall now put to the vote the sub-amendments to Amendment No 3344.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u284	I put to the vote sub-amendment No 359.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u285	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 83 Number of votes cast 78 Absolute majority 40 For adoption 11 Against 67
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u286	I put to the vote sub-amendment No 3500.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u287	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 85 Number of votes cast 80 Absolute majority 41 For adoption 13 Against 67
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u288	I put to the vote sub-amendment No 3511.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u289	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 82 Number of votes cast 77 Absolute majority 39 For adoption 8 Against 69
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u290	I put to the vote identical sub-amendments Nos. 3545 and 3549.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u291	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 83 Number of votes cast 74 Absolute majority 38 For adoption 72 Against 2
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u292	I put to the vote sub-amendment No 3559.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u293	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 78 Number of votes cast 73 Absolute majority 37 For adoption 7 Against 66
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u294	I put to the vote Amendment No 3344, as amended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u295	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 83 Number of votes cast 78 Absolute majority 40 For adoption 69 Against 9
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u296	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-08-O1090.u297	Next meeting, this morning, at nine o'clock: Discussion of the draft law authorizing the ratification of the agreement amending the Treaty establishing the European Stability Mechanism; Discussion of the draft law authorizing the approval of the partnership agreement between the Government of the French Republic and the Government of the Republic of Kenya on the promotion and exchange of skills and talents; Discussion of the draft law authorizing the approval of the agreement between the Government of the French Republic and the European Union Agency for Railways concerning the headquarters of the European Union Agency for Railways and its privileges and immunities on French territory; Following the discussion of the bill on differentiation, decentralization, deconcentration and various measures to simplify local public action. The meeting is adjourned.
