ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u1	The next item is the debate on the draft law on the financing of social security for 2022 (No 4685, 4701).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u2	The next speaker is the Minister for Public Accounts.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u3	Following the disagreement on Tuesday in the Joint Joint Committee (JC), we are now launching a new reading of the Social Security Financing Bill (PLFSS). Our discussions and debates contributed a few weeks ago to enrich the original version of the text, which was reworked by senators. This last five-year funding bill on social security strengthens our health care system and supports our caregivers, after almost two years of an epidemic that has re-emphasized their importance. It is a PLFSS which improves access to care by means of very concrete measures, including the treatment by the health insurance of sessions at the psychologist, the free provision of contraception for women up to 25 years of age or the simplification of access to complementary health care. It is also a bill that allows for progress in terms of autonomy, support and care for dependency, including the introduction of a floor rate and quality pay for home care. Consensus developments have found their place in the parliamentary shuttle. I am thinking in particular of the exemption of the wage share of the overcontribution on the fire premium of firefighters, which is a gesture of gratitude to those who protect us. I am also thinking of improvements in the process of collecting the contributions of artists-authors, proposed in particular by your rapporteur-general, such as the issuance of discount certificates by the USSRAF or the facilitation of the reimbursement of overpayments. I am thinking of extending the scope of the Fund to combat addictions to these new addictions, which are games, sports bets and screens. I am also thinking of extending the age at which adult children can continue to benefit from the local health insurance scheme of Alsace-Moselle as dependants of their parents to 24 years, which will ensure better access to care for younger children. I am thinking of the establishment of a death capital for the families of non-farm workers, which will enable them to provide financial support when they are confronted with the death of one of their families as a result of an illness, an accident in life or suicide. I would like to return more specifically to the question of the trajectory of social finances. Compared to the text you discussed a few weeks ago, this trajectory has been updated: the deficit in the general social security system and the Old Age Solidarity Fund (FSV) is expected to be €33.5 billion in 2021, €20.4 billion in 2022, and still – unfortunately – €11 billion in 2025. This improvement over previous forecasts is the result of the revision of the growth forecast, now estimated at 6.25% in 2021, i.e. an additional quarter point. It is expected to be 4% by 2022 and this improvement validates the policy we are pursuing. I would point out that if the growth recorded was finally greater than 6.25%, as expected by a number of bodies such as the International Monetary Fund (IMF), the European Commission or the Bank of France, the surplus revenue generated in this way will further reduce this deficit. This trajectory also includes an increase of EUR 1.7 billion for 2021 of ONDAM, the national goal of health insurance expenditure, due both to more dynamic expenditure than expected, to the need to cover the additional costs of health facilities in connection with the Covid, and finally to the entry into force in November 2021 of the Laforcade agreements for staff of institutions and services for persons with disabilities, announced by the Head of Government on 8 November last. On the other hand, ONDAM for 2022 was increased by EUR 500 million, mainly to take account of the effects of the additional expenditure recorded in 2021. There were doubts and concerns about the deterioration of social accounts during the discussions. These doubts are legitimate: if social security has been able to play such an important role in protecting the French against the risks of life, it is thanks to the improvement of the accounts that took place before the health crisis and to the seriousness that this government has shown. Without the ambitions to return to the balance that we had before the health crisis, social security could not have protected us so much in the context of this crisis. To get out of the crisis, we must avoid repeating the mistakes of the past. The Government fully assumes that this bill does not contain any brutal measures to re-establish accounts: it is not our choice. Unlike the one made after the 2009-10 crisis, our commitment and priority is to promote jobs and growth. I am convinced, as you know, that it is first and foremost thanks to it that we will restore our public finances and therefore our social finances. This economic policy is bearing fruit, as we have been able to raise our growth forecasts by a quarter. As for the unemployment rate, it has already returned to its pre-crisis level, and even below: before the crisis, 8.1% of the labour force was unemployed; This percentage is now 7.6%. We are therefore only a few steps away from achieving what seemed impossible: continuing the fall in unemployment after the crisis and aiming for full employment. Will growth be enough to correct social accounts and fully guarantee a return to balance? The answer is no, and that is why the work will have to be continued. It is not possible to postpone the return to balance indefinitely since, if we do not repay our debts, it is obviously the following generations, our children, that will have to bear the weight of our current deficits, besides observing our possibilities to face crises of a scale comparable to that which we have experienced in the future. I would therefore like to stress the need for the following reforms. First, we will need more than ever to adopt a global vision and direction of public finances, as well as modernized governance of our social finances. That is the ambition of the organic bill that you adopted on 19 July at the initiative of your rapporteur-general and on which discussions with the Senate are under way.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u4	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u5	Its adoption will give us welcome tools to improve the control of social accounts. We also need a unified management of social finances, which implies, in view of the overall deficit, that isolated surpluses should not be considered as margins of manoeuvre to be used, but rather that solidarity between the branches should be strengthened. We will also have to pursue structural reforms. Everyone is, of course, thinking about pension reform, but as the President of the Republic has pointed out, the conditions are not yet in place. That is why you will be invited to come back to the parametric reform of pensions voted in the Senate against the Government's opinion. On the occasion of this new reading, your rapporteur general will invite you to come back to a number of other votes in the Senate. I am thinking of the provisions on the supervision of dental and ophthalmological health centres proposed by the chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs, whose restoration will better guarantee the quality of care. For its part, the Government will propose a limited number of amendments. These will be either provisions rejected by the Senate, such as the amendment of ONDAM for 2022 to draw the consequences of our debates, or measures on which we have been able to move forward: I am thinking in particular of the extension of the indexary treatment supplement to health workers, medical and psychological assistants, social workers and educational and social assistants who work in experimental institutions for the elderly, in day-care centres and in independent residences. I hope that the debates that are beginning at this moment will give us the opportunity to enable social security to continue to fulfil its mission of protecting the French. I welcome the work of the rapporteur-general and your committee, which essentially consisted of re-establishing the text you adopted at first reading, taking into account the progress made by the parliamentary shuttle as well as the progress achieved in the meantime, in order to complement the provisions we are proposing for the adoption of Parliament. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and Dem groups, as well as on the panels of the commissions]] Thank you for your attention: in this debate my colleague Brigitte Bourguignon, who will join us in a moment, and I will of course be listening to you.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u6	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u7	Mr Thomas Mesnier, rapporteur-general of the Committee on Social Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u8	After a reading in each of the two assemblies, the bill on the financing of social security for 2022, which originally had 62 articles, now included 38 articles passed in conformity and 109 still under discussion. Eighteen articles adopted by the National Assembly were deleted and 30 added by the Senate. Beyond these figures, it turns out that while we can welcome the fact that our two assemblies have joined on many issues, the differences between the two adopted texts are, again this year, very numerous and sometimes profound. Among the points of convergence, I will mention here, as I did in the Joint Joint Committee last Tuesday, and without claiming to be exhaustive: with regard to revenue and general balance, the first part of the LFSS, the reduction of the wholesale sales tax, the immediate payment of social and tax aid related to services to the person, the harmonisation of the tax and social system of public employers in the field of supplementary social protection, the extension of the social system of partial activity, the abolition of the wage over-contribution on the fire premium – a major step forward decided by our assembly – and the declaratory simplifications for self-employed workers. With regard to occupational diseases and occupational diseases (AT-MP), the Senate retained the requirement of a prior visual check made by an ophthalmologist in the event of a renewal by an orthoptist of a first prescription of corrective lenses or contact lenses, a requirement added by the Assembly, and adopted useful clarifications which could reassure a number of actors as to the scope of the device. Other points of agreement include the treatment of contraception up to 25 years of age, the testing of first-time prescriptions by nurses practising in advanced practice, the improvement of compensation for occupational victims of pesticides, reforms in hospital funding or the modernisation of cash benefits, whether for self-employed or non-employed agricultural workers. On the latter point, a real advance is the result of the provisions adopted by the Assembly first of all, which extended to farm workers and family workers the benefit of the daily replacement allowance in the event of maternity or paternity leave; then by the Senate, which adopted a major provision introducing death capital for agricultural non-employees. I also wanted to come back to the management of psychologists' consultations introduced at first reading by the National Assembly. Although the commission disagreed with a few points introduced by the Senate, the principle of this measure is a consensus between our two assemblies. Waiting for our fellow citizens, it will be an important step towards a better management of mental health, whose health crisis has shown the importance, if still necessary. With regard to the autonomy branch, the Senate voted to extend the ségur de la santé's appraisals to personnel in the medical and social sector, including the 20,000 caregivers working in institutions for persons with disabilities, financed by the departments, at the initiative of the Government. The Senate has also validated the introduction of a national floor rate for home services, as well as the upgrading and extension of the day-to-day carer's allowances – AJPA – and parental presence – AJPP. With regard to the old age sector, I am pleased that the Senate has approved the relaxation of the cumulation of employment and retirement for caregivers mobilized during the health crisis, the securing of retirement quarters for self-employed workers affected by health restrictions and the measures relating to progressive retirement. Lastly, with regard to the family, the Senate had adopted the generalization of intermediation for the payment of family pensions with a view to preventing unpaid payments. It also adopted the article resulting from the amendment by my colleague rapporteur Monique Limon, aimed at improving the information of beneficiaries of benefits, particularly family benefits, in order to combat non-use of the law. I will also mention, in a more specific way, all the provisions in favour of artists-authors that the Senate has fully validated. They were all the more important to me because they were the direct result of the work of the Spring Evaluation, which shows that a virtuous process between our control action and our role as legislator is at work. The convergences between the two Assemblies are therefore real and substantial, but the points of divergence are also real, which explains why our CMP could not be concluded. First, the Senate has, at times, it must be said, against the advice of its commission, adopted about ten provisions on exemptions or, on the contrary, on additional levies whose validity our assembly is contesting. We had already rejected some of these initiatives, such as the sustainability of the TODE scheme – the exemption from employers' contributions for the employment of casual workers seeking employment – the exemption of all blood-derived medicines from the contribution on turnover, the alignment of the taxation of tobacco to be heated with that of cigarettes, the creation of free medical zones, and others. Like last year, the lack of overall coherence between these provisions – which sometimes increase social levies, sometimes reduce them – and their uncertain effects in order to achieve the objectives they set themselves, as well as the contradictions of the Senate with our objectives of rationalizing exemptions and stabilising compulsory levies, led the committee to propose systematically the abolition of them. As last year, the Senate opposed the mechanism for the recovery of hospital debt. The Commission does not share this position, taking into account both the proximity between the financing of health care institutions and the disease branch, and, in substance, the need to engage health care institutions providing the public hospital service in a path of debt relief and virtuous investment. The Senate also abolished the financial transfer between the family branch and the sickness branch, which was intended to compensate for the latter's taking over of the derogatory daily allowances for childcare; However, it was a fair return, since these expenses, by their nature, are the responsibility of the family branch. Our committee has therefore logically restored this article to its previous wording. The rejection of a mandatory article approving Annex B could obviously not be shared by the committee; it has reinstated this article and the annex in an updated version, which incorporates all the latest forecasts available. The balance in 2025 is generally improved by EUR 2 billion compared to the text we voted on at first reading. Important disagreements also remain in the fourth part, first of all a parametric reform of the pension system, adopted by way of amendment – a recurrent proposal of the upper house, and perhaps, tomorrow, of the Republican candidate in the presidential election, if he ever talks about anything other than immigration... Of course, the Commission has removed these provisions. No pension reform has ever been carried out in this way in LFSS – and it is probably very well so. On the other hand, the current context does not lend itself to relaunching such a reform, just a few months from the end of the legislature – it is, in our view, an election deadline to come. Other expenditure provisions resulting from the Senate review have been deleted or reinstated by the committee. For example, it was not acceptable to condition the doctor's agreement to an exercise in an under-dense zone for six months. Improving access to care throughout the country – a fully shared goal – must be achieved through other tools, better calibrated and less conducive to perverse effects on the attractiveness of liberal medicine. The submission of the dental and ophthalmological centres to the approval of the regional health agencies (ARS) has also been re-established, on the initiative of the chairman of the committee and myself, with the very broad support of the social affairs commissioners. These devices are essential to better combat certain drifts. The amount of the transfer from the AT-MP branch to the disease branch, as part of the under-declaration, was reinstated in the National Assembly's drafting – although it had been reduced in the Senate – to maintain it at its current level. The status quo is not an option: we must take into account the objective updating of the estimates made by the specialised committee, chaired by a judge of the Court of Auditors, after an extremely thorough work. In these circumstances, the line which the committee will endeavour to follow during the re-reading will be that of coherence and balance: consistency with the positions defended by the Assembly at first reading, even if we are gathered to resume and deepen certain debates; balance, because the concern to preserve the general economy of the text that we voted for must not prevent us from being open to real improvements from or inspired by the Senate. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group and on a few benches of the Dem group]] This is the state of mind in which I address the examination of the PLFSS, as rapporteur-general, for this new reading. The text is faithful to the historical vocation of social security financing laws, which provide a clear vision of social accounts for national representation. It is also faithful to the desire for transformation shared by the majority and the Government in the service of social security policies. Finally, despite very special conditions for examination, particularly this year – and which I hope will evolve from the next financial year – the text is faithful to the essential role Parliament must play in clarifying, enriching and improving the PLFSS, with a dual aim of democratic balance and social progress.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u9	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u10	I have received from Mrs Mathilde Panot and from members of the La France group a motion to reject in advance pursuant to Rule 91(5) of the Rules of Procedure. Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u11	Definitely, Minister Delegate, I will ask you for the second time to do the messenger – I'm sorry – because the speech I wrote was addressed to Mr.Véran: I was confident that he would be here to discuss the Social Security Financing Bill. Colleagues En Marche, I wanted to congratulate you: you kept your promise, or rather that of Emmanuel Macron, who announced, at the beginning of his term, that he would achieve 15 billion euros in savings on health insurance. You're 14 billion, but are we up to 1 billion? Your policy will still have led you to close 14,000 beds during the mandate. Congratulations! Also in 2017, the presidential candidate announced: "I will not abolish any positions in the hospital public service. Indeed, Emmanuel Macron did not need to do so: the positions in the hospital public service were abolished by themselves, so to speak! Caregivers have resigned – and so much so if we find ourselves with 100,000 vacant posts and 20% closed beds due to lack of staff. I continue my review of the statements of candidate Emmanuel Macron: "The reorganization of the care system is likely to make these savings and to lead a real plan of modernization of the hospital. Again, it is successful. Bravo! The closures of services and the mergers of hospitals have led to the creation of brand new but staffless factory hospitals: this is the modernized hospital in Macronie – a shame.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u12	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u13	Today, Minister – I am addressing Olivier Véran – we are starting a new reading of the social security budget, and once again, you will seek to demonstrate at all costs that you have never invested so much in health. All the artifices will be at the rendezvous: you will set aside inflation; you will set aside the savings achieved in past years; you will set aside the increase and ageing of the population; you will set aside everything that makes your plan ridiculously weak, while to keep the hospital and the health system at large, it would require a massive and structural investment in health insurance. Caregivers are shot down. They have demonstrated self-denial, dedication and sacrifice for many years; All you have to offer them is lies and hypocrisy. It is not when you get all smiles, Minister, with a cheque of 1.7 billion euros to cover the extra costs associated with the covid crisis, that you will reassure us. Institutionally, hospitals continue to be bleeded, and the health system is out of breath. Every day brings its lot of bad news: the closing of the night emergencies in Moissac, in the Tarn-et-Garonne, the closing twice, in three months, of the night emergencies of the Hospital Maillot in Briey, in Meurthe-et-Moselle, a new medical desert in Nieul-le-Dolent, in Vendée, after the departure of the last doctor – the list is long! Behind these closures and departures, lives are at stake. You say you're increasing the number of trained personnel, but reality is a vicious circle of departures and turnovers. All the evidence confirms that. Sabine, a nurse at the Nord hospital in Marseille, said she was disillusioned: "We see from the pillars of the service, from the elders. There is immense fatigue, and the wear and tear of having to train new colleagues all the time. Charlotte, a 26-year-old nurse who started her career in the middle of a covid crisis, says: "A lot of people left the hospital because they were disgusted with what happened with the covid. In maternity, three-quarters of midwives are liberal; They don't want to work in the hospital anymore. I have graduated for a year and a half, and I want to leave the AP-HP (Assistance publique-Hôpitaux de Paris). A pediatric doctor at the University Hospital Centre (CHU) in Rennes reports: "Today, I had six children to hospitalize, but I had no beds either in the hospital or even in the department. At the Montsouris Mutual Institute, half of the internal medical beds have been closed since the beginning of the school year, as well as 30% of the capacity of the entire hospital. "In 20 years of career, I've never seen that," admits a doctor in internal medicine. The nursing team has gone from eight incumbents before the crisis to two today: "this is the vicious circle of disaffection," she adds. As we repeat our alerts since the beginning of the mandate, and no return to normal has ever taken place, the state services are finally beginning to wake up. In the Far East, the SRA declared a state of emergency due to a lack of personnel. The proposed solution: to train more and better – that is the motto! But, minister, this is a false idea. Who will deliver the training, while the services lack staff? Don't you know that training interns, paramedics or nurses takes time? As a result, trainees are ill-received, poorly trained and ill-treated due to lack of time; They do the work of caregivers instead of learning the profession. At best, they change their mind once they graduate and go to other trades; At worst, they don't complete the training. Let's not talk about the Pathup for entering the nursing training institute, which closes the door to future "super nurses", but opens it to people who are absolutely not made for this profession. No, not everyone can practice these beautiful trades! No, it is not given to everyone to exercise in care! Stop it quickly! [[Mrs Mathilde Panot exclaimed]] Finally, I will not teach you anything, minister, about the conditions for the training of externals and interns in medicine – you were on strike, in your time, to denounce them. However, these conditions have deteriorated dramatically since your boarding school years. It is therefore necessary to act urgently to improve the situation: suicides of medical students are far too frequent alert messages. At the national level, the Director General of Health, Jérôme Salomon, calls for an increase in overtime for health workers, as well as for the mobilization of retirees and volunteers, particularly among interns. Yet, listening to you, the hospital was saved. It would seem to hear the musicians of the Titanic, who continue to play on the deck as the shipwreck has already begun – but this time, the melody sounds false, and you are one of those responsible for the shipwreck. Stop making the French and French believe that you arrive like a savior during the crisis. This year, of course, you are raising your foot compared to previous years: 1 billion euros is required from health insurance, no more, and means are deployed to curb the epidemic – you don't hit a man on the ground. But you are still planning to pursue fiscal austerity in the years to come. The only explanation that comes to mind, when I discover your plans for the future, is that you have lost your mind. During the review of the PLFSS at first reading, all our requests to stop the closures of beds and services were swept away from the back of the hand. In Marseille, 150 bed deletions are still planned; In Lyon, 120 psychiatric beds are threatened; In Île-de-France, 300 beds could disappear as a result of the merger of the Bichat-Claude-Bernard Hospital and the Beaujon Hospital, whose staff are on strike today. I could continue this way for a long time to get rid of your misdeeds. [[Applause on a few benches of the FI group]] However, I learn from the press that you, Minister, are basing on a project of "great security" – definitely, demagogy has no limit! How dare you disfigure such a beautiful scheme, you who have already voted 14 billion savings for health insurance since the beginning of the mandate? If a "great security" has to come into being, it is indeed the one of the future in common, which the group La France insoumé has been defending since 2017: it would put an end to the astronomical management costs of complementary insurance, with unequal rates and with the exclusion of three million people who are not covered.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u14	She's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u15	Our project, defended by Jean-Luc Mélenchon, is a project of solidarity – the opposite of yours. In our joint L'Avenir programme, we propose to reopen emergency services, maternity services and public EHPADs, so that every citizen has access to a public health service within 30 minutes. We propose a multi-year plan for the recruitment of medical and social professionals: doctors, nurses, caregivers, administrative and technical staff. We propose the upgrading of trades and incomes – because, no, Ségur has not sufficed, and our caregivers remain among the least well-paid in the countries of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD). [[Mrs Mathilde Panot applauds]] We propose to move beyond the budgetary logic associated with ONDAM, so that funding is at the service of human needs. We propose, instead of your fifth empty and unfunded branch, a real public service of autonomy, which allows to reach ratios of caregivers per resident ending institutional abuse, not to say government. We propose the creation of a public drug centre, to ensure the relocation of the production of medicines, to guarantee their supply and to monitor prices transparently, and to produce vaccines under compulsory licences. [[Mrs Mathilde Panot and Mr Sébastien Jumel applaud]] We also propose that a Minister of Health be present during the consideration of social security financing bills in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u16	His absence is a shame!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u17	[[Applause on several benches of the FI and GDR groups]] We will never let the French and French hear: "Take care of yourself, because we have closed all the hospital beds. Your health policy is irresponsible. We call for the rejection of this project to finance social security, because we are defending another model, solidarity: social protection and health for all.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u18	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u19	Mrs Michèle de Vaucouleurs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u20	That will not surprise you, ladies and gentlemen of La France, and we are not in favour of the motion to reject it beforehand. Reviewing the Social Security Financing Bill is an annual exercise that we have to complete. In this year's text, we have introduced many much-anticipated measures from the French and we are here to discuss what is going or going wrong, but in no way to cut the debate short.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u21	Mr Boris Vallaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u22	[[Mrs. Caroline Fiat applauds. – Mrs Michèle Peyron exclaims]] I will clarify in the general discussion what we think of this PLFSS, but the members of our group will vote on the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u23	Mr Paul Christophe, who may also be brief, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u24	This is not the first time we have heard a motion of incantatory rejection. Wanting to promote a candidate in the presidential election is one thing, but that is not what the citizens expect...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u25	Oh, yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u26	... who want us to discuss concrete actions. For my part, I prefer to capitalize...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u27	To capitalize, the Government is an expert!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u28	...on the proposals made in this text, as this budget for hospitals is essential: I was still in one of them last Saturday and I can tell you that when we talk about debt recovery or investment, it makes sense for these institutions. I've had an ONDAM at 1.7%, I know what a 2.6% increase means! I'm going through with some of the best. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] I also want to capitalize on the autonomy aspect: it is not for nothing that we did not once mobilize for the creation of a fifth branch. We hope that this area will continue to flourish. Let us therefore debate, ladies and gentlemen, this will be much more profitable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u29	Let's capitalize!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u30	We're counting on you to capitalize!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u31	Mrs Nicole Sanquer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u32	We understand, in some respects, the tabling of the motion to reject beforehand: the democratic debate is considerably altered by the policy of inadmissibility of amendments – and I am surprised that several of our amendments declared inadmissible in the National Assembly have been debated in the Senate. It is also altered to the extent that the rejection of the provisions advocated by the Senate or by the opposition groups is not the result of our discussions. However, our group has traditionally opposed motions for rejection in the hope that the debate will take place, especially since the adoption of such a motion would have dramatic consequences for our social protection system and for social security in general. We will therefore vote against this motion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u33	Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u34	I too regret the absence of the Minister of Solidarity and Health. He should have been at Bichat Hospital this morning, but he didn't come, probably because a workers' reception committee was waiting for him!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u35	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u36	He should have been present in the Chamber today, but we see that he is not there – we wonder what he has most important to do! [[Applause on several benches in the FI group]] Of course, we will vote on the motion of our colleague Caroline Fiat to reject it beforehand. To those who would be surprised, I would remind you that, as parliamentarians, we do not have any tools other than that of referring this text through this motion, in order to discuss it again and improve it. So, gracefully, do not say that this is an incantatory motion; It's not incantatory, it's cantatory! We are singing our disagreement with the consequences of the policies that you propose to us. [[Same movements]] I mentioned the Bichat hospital, with a thought for my colleague Danièle Obono who stands alongside the employees. I do not forget the André-Grégoire Hospital in Montreuil, in my constituency, where thirty-eight positions are currently vacant, i.e. 10% of the staff and where 20% of the beds have been closed. The first line has now become the first target of your attacks, as Caroline Fiat made clear earlier and as we will demonstrate during the debates. That is why, if you want another policy in favour of the public hospital, you must vote on the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u37	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u38	[[Applause on a few benches of the FI group]] If, at times, certain motions may seem incantatory, it was not in my view. It is more serious when the budget itself is incantatory, given the seriousness of the situation due to the health crisis and the effects it has on public health. You may have been aware of this study, which, based on the figures for the first months of the year 2021, shows an increase in the delivery of treatments for diabetes and cardiovascular diseases, antidepressant, antipsychotic and anxiolytic medicines. The health situation continues to deteriorate and the public hospital is experiencing difficulties that need not be described here. [[Applause on several benches of the GDR and FI groups]] We must respond to this situation but this PLFSS will not allow us, because you have made bad choices. We have examined this text at first reading, we know the content of it and, as far as we are in a funnel logic, this budget seems to be irrecoverable. Therefore, the only thing that remains to be done would be to vote on the motion to reject it beforehand, in order to start from scratch.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u39	Mrs Stéphanie Rist has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u40	How can you refuse to debate this bill precisely because the health system is experiencing difficulties? Is this really serious, when this text improves access to care?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u41	We'll see what you do!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u42	I could mention several measures, such as the possibility open to orthoptists to prescribe visual checks instead of ophthalmologists or experimentation with direct access to physiotherapists and speech therapists. This text strengthens our health system with an increase in ONDAM, particularly for the hospital, by more than 4.1%. Is this serious...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u43	Yeah, it's serious!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u44	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] ... while it provides for 2 billion euros of salary revalorisation? Do you refuse to discuss it? It also removes the wage contributions on the fire premium granted to firefighters. In the area of autonomy, it introduces a minimum rate of 22 euros per hour for home support services: once again, you wouldn't want to discuss it? Honestly, that doesn't seem very serious to me. That is why we will vote against the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u45	In the general debate, Mr Jean-Pierre Door spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u46	The Government and its majority persist and sign. At the end of the commission's work, unfortunately, this draft law on the financing of social security does not include any improvements over the original text. However, our honourable senators have made many improvements that the Republicans support, but the amendments tabled by the majority are intended to delete them, which bodes ill for the discussion to come, especially since the fundamental questions that we have asked remain unanswered. At the first reading, the agenda of our assembly relegated the consideration of this PLFSS at the end of the week; This time, we are debating it at the very beginning of the week. It is not serious to impose such an acceleration of the timetable and deadlines for the tabling of unrealistic amendments. Given the limited time available to us, it is very difficult to find a guideline in this catalogue of scattered measures, which contains many social riders. This is not enough to make a health law. As the presidential election approaches, you open the cheque book – made of wood – to try to catch up on what you failed to do during the quinquennium. But the calendar is shrinking and it is now too late. In committee, you detrigued the text of the Senate. Some social measures go in the right direction, as we stressed at first reading, but the whole text does not address the major issues: ensuring access to quality care for all, ensuring serenity in hospitals or preserving liberal medicine. So, how do you respond to the labour shortage and the closure of beds in even greater proportions than before the health crisis? Due to the extension of the fifth wave of the epidemic, hospital conditions are likely to become critical. The bill from Ségur de la santé did not calm the unease of the professionals. How do you respond to the anger of midwives or anesthetist nurses, who are the forgotten of your policy? How do you respond to the Red Cross aides or trainers? You won't do medicine without doctors and paramedics. Despite a return to the surplus of the family branch, you are not relaunching family policy, which has been stopped for four years, while the health crisis has made it even more necessary. You have buried the law "large age and autonomy": what are the prospects of the fifth branch? You have even removed, in committee, the provisions concerning the convening of a national conference of generations and autonomy, in order to content yourself with the submission of a simple report. But, ladies and gentlemen, the reports have never made the law! You have chosen not to propose measures to control expenditure and you are instead pursuing the policy of medium-term social security deficits, which would no longer be reduced and which, by the very admission of the Deputy Minister for Public Accounts, would stabilize around EUR 15 billion a year. However, it is essential to draw a balance perspective: it is an imperative for the proper management of social finances, which the Court of Auditors recommends. By the end of 2021, the USSRAF, a national fund, is expected to bear around EUR 50 billion in cumulative deficits in the various branches. The social security deficit is expected to be 34.4 billion at the end of the current year. From now on, it is certain that the ceiling of 92 billion authorisations for deficit recovery by the Social Debt Depreciation Fund (CADES) for the financial years 2020 to 2023 will not cover the deficit of 2023. As we read in Appendix B, we can only be puzzled about the expiry date of the social debt due before December 31, 2033. So we ask you the following question: how long do you envisage social debt and how large? Your budget is very worrying, Minister Delegate. You put deficits under the carpet, which is not politically glorious. In this budget of the flight, you pass on to your successors and future generations the mistigri of the debt which, we fear, will become explosive. That is why, as you will understand, the Republicans will not vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u47	Mrs Michèle de Vaucouleurs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u48	Today, we are starting a new reading of a particular bill to finance social security in many respects: it is both the last of the legislature and the one that must accompany the recovery of the economy, while containing the effects of the health crisis. We see the difficulty of the fiscal year because of the evolving nature of the pandemic. As usual, this new reading will be to go back to the drafting of our initial work, which includes strong social measures, while retaining some interesting contributions from the Senate. Despite a particularly unfavourable environment, the health system has shown real strength. The financial efforts to alleviate it have been and are still considerable. Nevertheless, the social account deficit, which was projected at €20.4 billion in 2022, is now structural. We are still far from the return to balance, but it will be necessary to work with demand to achieve this in the coming years. However, it will be a matter of not reproducing the mistakes of the past, when the public hospital has been bleeded blank to balance the social security accounts. As far as the purely financial aspect of the text is concerned, our group welcomes the continuation of the effort to raise staff salaries with more than EUR 2 billion mobilised for health-care workers, nurses, midwives and contract doctors. We also welcome the extension of the indexary treatment supplement to staff in medical and social institutions, which was endorsed by an amendment by the Government in the Senate. These staff, who accompany persons with disabilities on a daily basis, should be able to benefit from recognition of their work. The PLFSS 2022 contains a panel of positive measures that will affect all categories of the population. The full management of contraception for women under the age of 25 and the consultations of liberal psychologists respond to obvious concerns that need to be addressed urgently. Improving access to visual care by increasing the skills of orthoptists is another key to enhancing access to care. In fact, parliamentarians enriched this aspect during the first reading by providing for several experiments in direct access to health professionals. Our group is convinced that combating medical desertification involves not using coercive methods, but significantly accelerating the increase in the skills of all medical and paramedical professions within a relaxed and supervised care path. In addition, in the face of the demographic challenge of ageing, we would like once again to welcome the rise of the autonomy branch with concrete measures aimed in particular at improving the provision of home care. The creation of a national floor rate of 22 euros per hour of home intervention should help to achieve better territorial justice in terms of funding, but also improve the quality of service rendered. We know that the policy of autonomy is based on the State and the departments, which must act together to make this public policy a success. The work undertaken since last year's FSL demonstrates that co-construction with communities is working and that it is only in this way that we will be able to meet the challenge of accompanying the loss of autonomy. Of course, we regret that we have not dealt with these issues in a comprehensive law, but we welcome the commitment of the Deputy Minister to make concrete progress. This text also enshrines a reformulation of the drug policy which, for many years, was the adjustment variable of the PLFSS. This year, the situation is a little different: less savings are required from this sector and the text contains many articles aimed at facilitating access to innovative medicines and making certain rules for indoor pharmacies more flexible. Our group is satisfied with this, but recalls the urgent need to achieve a genuine European policy of relocating the medicine, as has been done in a remarkable way for covid vaccines. Finally, the text contains several simplification measures for self-employed workers. It should be recalled that our majority has been the first to consistently and consistently focus on those audiences who have for too long been left out of public policy. More than ever, this new reading will consist essentially of restoring the balance found in our assembly a month ago. Indeed, the Senate has profoundly changed the text by adding very political measures and removing important provisions. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group]] The Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats Group will support this last budget for social security of the mandate, which will allow the implementation of measures expected, in particular for the areas of autonomy, disability and access to care.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u49	Mr Boris Vallaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u50	Two years ago, in the fall of 2019, members of the Socialist and Related Group presented an emergency plan for the hospital and for autonomy. After years of demanding efforts from the hospital and the health care staff, as well as from the social insurance workers, our country had overcome the social debt and regained the means of solidarity. But we had also, obviously, reached a point of rupture, with a workload per staff that became unsustainable, with closures of beds that exceeded the only necessities of the outpatient turn, with an increasingly contested organization and governance of the hospital that had ended up keeping the caregivers away from the patients, with a pricing to the activity that had ended up being only the caricature of itself and with a manifest and now chronic under-investment that called for a prompt and energetic reaction. After eighteen months of strikes and crisis in hospitals, while we were already waiting for the great law on autonomy which we now know will not happen, and which you had no promise but that of pension reform, which we now know you want to last for the weakest, it was time to act for the hospital. You have decided not to do anything – or so little! –, rejecting, without any form of debate other than contempt for your oppositions, our proposals for a strong increase in ONDAM, reform of pricing, resumption of hospital debt and revival of investment, recruitment and increase of remuneration. You also rejected the prospect of financing these solidarity efforts by reallocating a share of the resources previously allocated to CADES: more than €6 billion a year, €48 billion from 2020 to 2027, to improve the working conditions of all hospital staff, to open beds in hospitals, downstream of emergencies, and to recruit the qualified staff our EHPADs need so badly. On the eve of the covid, we made a simple political proposal, readable, funded and subject to broad Republican consensus. Agnès Buzyn, for his part, had taught us the lesson, before deserting. So it took a health crisis of unprecedented magnitude for caregivers to begin to be heard with Segur. That's good, but so much more remains to be done! Thousands of beds continued to close during the crisis itself, the working conditions of caregivers remain very difficult everywhere in France, nursing workers, nurses and doctors are lacking, the services suffer and sometimes close, as in recent weeks in Laval, Lillebonne, Rennes, Moissac, Montauban, Voiron, Le Mans, Reims, Châtellerault, Bayeux, Ambert, Draguignan, Bastia, Bézannes or Aire-sur-l'Adour: everywhere in France, medical deserts are spreading and mayors call for help. At the Congress of Mayors, they sounded the alarm: the Republic, they told us, no longer passes through our house. This PLFSS can now sum up your delays, your renunciations, and even your measures without vision or ambition. The text contains some measures that we will support, such as the floor price for home help services or the reimbursement of the voluntary termination of pregnancy (IVG) up to the age of 25. We will vote for the automation of the complementary health solidarity (C2S) for the beneficiaries of the RSA, the experiments of direct access to health professionals or the arrangements relating to the management of the sessions in a psychologist but, in return, we can only relay here the words of the federations of patients and health professionals: you are not up to the challenges with regard to access to care, the rest to the most fragile or mental health which, after the announced sittings with drum and trumpet, remains the poor parent of your balance sheet. These measures are very little progress. The list of your resignations is long. Neither great law on autonomy, nor systemic and fair reform of pensions, nor structural commitment to the hospital, nor real reform of pricing, nor reflection on governance, nor questioning an ONDAM that no longer speaks of health policies, nor strong measures on the installation of doctors: your bill avoids the real debates, those of the crisis that we have just been through and that has brought us back to the essential – the centrality of man, the primacy of life over any other consideration and the inextricable character of man and nature. [[Mr. Pierre Dharréville applauds]] In short, your text does not construct any comprehensive health policy at the service of a care society. It only shows that the deficits are growing, that the social security budget is in serious imbalance and that you have not made use of those who can, that it is in the future that you reserve the bad news. Let the French and French now know that tomorrow will be hard for them. You will vote alone for this project, as you have ruled alone for five years.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u51	Mrs. Annie Vidal has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u52	Much more than just one accounting year, the Social Security Financing Bill that we are discussing today as a new reading brings with it many concrete measures, with a common objective: to strengthen our system of care and our social protection at the service of all. Despite the difficulties mentioned and a financial trajectory severely degraded by the health crisis, this PLFSS, enriched by both the National Assembly and the Senate, brings real progress. I am thinking in particular of the extension of the Ségur for professionals in the medico-social sector, with 2 billion euros, and of the measures to support home care, with the introduction of a national floor rate for hours worked by home care services, supplemented by a quality allocation, which are highly anticipated measures. I am also thinking of the measures introduced in favour of the self-employed with a view to amortising, where appropriate, the effects of the health crisis, which will also be supplemented by the future bill on self-employment, some of which have already been extended to farm managers. I am also thinking of renovating the drug policy, with access to innovation and incentives for the use of biosimilar products, which will allow greater access to care and the activation of a large reservoir of savings. I am also thinking of measures to promote the purchasing power of households, in particular the most fragile ones, such as simplifying access to the C2S, strengthening the public service of maintenance and paying in real time the tax credit and social assistance related to services to the person. They are also preventive measures, such as non-prescription HIV testing, the generalization of a mission to prevent childhood obesity and the extension of free contraception for women up to the age of 25. All this is concrete. Nevertheless, it must be noted that the amendments made by the Senate, while preserving the overall scope of the text, have also distorted some of the measures that we wish to complete. That is why our group will propose them again to the debate. We want to encourage French people's access to care. That is why we are clarifying some of the Senate's additions, so that the High Health Authority (HAS) and the Academy of Medicine will quickly give their opinions on experiments relating to direct access to massage therapists and speech therapists, a much expected measure in the territories. We want to enhance the medical professions and we are in favour of a campaign to promote and inform midwives about their skills. We also wish to re-establish two requests for reports, one on women's sexual health after cancer and the other on men's contraception, two topics that have not yet been addressed, but which will undoubtedly open up a reflection to consider future health policies and thus further advance our health system. This year we are continuing actions to simplify and ensure the fairness of the levy, unifying the recovery of social contributions by the USSRAF. Thus, 210,000 liberal professionals will be involved. As you know, the unification of collection networks is a structural axis in the transformation of government relations with taxpayers, allowing for more flexibility. Finally, in the context of an exit from the crisis, it is essential to support health institutions by granting them an additional period of time, beyond 31 December 2021, for their contracts for the provision of health facilities as part of structural investments. The Senate has removed this article simply in opposition to the debt-recovery mechanism that our institutions need. We therefore wish to reintroduce them. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Mme Michèle de Vaucouleurs also applauds]] We have here a responsible and, at the same time, ambitious and dynamic crisis exit PLFSS. Through this text, we continue our commitment to the renovation and even restoration of our health care system in order to ensure that everyone has access to rights and to just, effective and supportive social protection, to which we know the French and French who are very attached. Unsurprisingly, the La République group on the move will vote for this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u53	Mrs Nicole Sanquer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u54	In the preamble, I would like to reiterate the regrets of my UDI-I Group regarding the conditions for consideration of this text. At first reading, most of our amendments were declared inadmissible, while in the Senate, these same amendments were often admissible, considered and sometimes adopted. In other words, the interpretation of the inadmissibility of amendments in this chamber is particularly strict, with the sole aim of reducing the length of our debates. On the substance, we note with concern that the unprecedented social security deficit is settling on a long-term basis. The Court of Auditors also expresses the same concern in its report on the application of social security financing laws. Of course, we support measures to combat the health crisis. Failure to make these extraordinary expenses would have led to a worsening of the crisis. However, no measures are envisaged to bring social accounts back to balance. We cannot knowingly and voluntarily put the financing of our social protection on the shoulders of our children. The PLFSS for 2022 has been considerably enriched in the Senate, and many of the proposals that we were defending, rejected here, have been adopted by senators. I am thinking in particular of the extinction of the double liability to CSG and CRDS – a widespread social contribution and contribution to the repayment of the social debt – and to local contributions for the French abroad. I will also defend an amendment to extend this measure to Polynesians and Caledonians. I am also thinking of the sustainability of the TODE system, which is essential to facilitate recruitment and increase the competitiveness of the sector. Finally, I am thinking of the establishment of lower-risk consumer rooms in a hospital. For several years, our group has been defending the decentralisation of the care system to the regions by introducing a regional health insurance expenditure target in place of the current ONDAM. The regions have a much better knowledge of the territories and it seems obvious that the provision of care needs to be adapted to the conditions most present in a territory. Care needs are not the same in Occitanie and Hauts-de-France. The argument we are opposed to is that only the State can ensure equal care throughout the territory. We have the most centralized system possible, yet it must be noted that our citizens are very uneven in terms of the provision of care. Our group will present, thanks to our colleague Thierry Benoit, a battery of proposals aimed at combating medical deserts. We see the failure of the incentive mechanisms, which alone will not have been able to stem medical desertification. In fact, 11 per cent of the population would live in a medical desert: it is several million of our fellow citizens who give up treatment because they do not have access to a doctor. This situation is unacceptable. Doctors' freedom of settlement has long prevailed over the general interest. This is why, in parallel with support and incentives for installation in areas without doctors, we will propose measures to monitor the freedom of installation, particularly for the beginning of a career. The transformation of the numerus clausus into numerus apertus is beneficial. This measure was indispensable and we strongly support it. Nevertheless, training more doctors takes time and does not guarantee a fair distribution of these. The adoption of our amendments would significantly and immediately improve access to care for our citizens. Prevention is another issue that we wish to draw the Government's attention to. We must emerge from an exclusively curative logic, less advantageous from both a medical and an economic point of view. Our health prevention policies need to go further. Finally, nothing in this PLFSS corresponds to a coherent policy for the family. Worse still, you are using the surpluses of the family branch generated by the unprecedented drop in the birth rate to finance social policies in other branches of social security. In this PLFSS, this amount represents 1 billion euros for the year 2022: it is as much that escapes the support of the families, the support of the birth in our country and we regret it. For the reasons mentioned and because today's work will only be to unblock the work of senators, our group will vote for the majority, as at first reading, against the PLFSS.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u55	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u56	As Europe and our country face a recovery in the covid epidemic, we can have legitimate concerns, because our system and our health care professionals are out of breath. It is necessarily on the basis of this finding and these threats that we must judge the latest law on the financing of social security for the quinquennium. More broadly, we need to consider the sustainability of our social security model as a whole. Over the past five years, it has been put to the test, not to mention the previous decades of political decisions and economic logic that have led to the present situation. Today, we are suffering all the consequences, and we believe it is urgent and necessary to work together to find solutions collectively. After almost two years of health crisis, how could we still doubt that health should be our main concern? Every day, all over the country, we are confronted with the worsening of medical desertification or the closure of emergency services due to the lack of professionals. Renunciation of care is not acceptable in a country which, however, enshrines the protection of health in its Constitution. So, from the beginning of the review of this text, our group has been concerned about our ability to respond to the challenges facing our health care system, including the recruitment crisis. We have alerted the cost estimates related to covid, in case of epidemic recovery. The latest indicators seem, alas! Give us reason. Are we prepared to face a fifth wave? Not to mention other epidemic episodes, such as the bronchiolite that saturates pediatric emergencies. It was therefore necessary to raise ONDAM. Senators adopted the government amendment, which increased spending by 1.7 billion euros. They, on the other hand, rejected your proposal to increase the cost estimates for 2022. That is regrettable, because we will not be able to debate it at this reading. This is indicative of a method that we are constantly deploring. It consists of presenting, at the last minute, substantial amendments. This necessarily raises the question of the sincerity of accounts and forecasts. We welcome, of course, the extension, in November 2021, of the salary increases for the 20,000 staff of institutions and services for disabled people. This extension was necessary to put an end to inequities between health insurance-funded institutions and those funded by departments. Our colleague Jeanine Dubie had alerted you several times on this subject. However, still today too many professionals in the disability, home help and child protection sectors remain excluded from the revalorisations. We take note of the Prime Minister's announcement of a conference of trades in social and medico-social accompaniment. Commitments must now be accelerated and implemented. Our group also continues to express its deep concern about the autonomy branch, which is still insufficient to deal with the challenges posed by an aging population and a vocation crisis. In the absence of a bill dedicated to dependency, we fear that we will miss a decisive opportunity to reform our policy in favour of autonomy. We will continue to propose the creation of a contribution on donations and estates, in order to finance this new branch, which is already in deficit. Finally, we are satisfied with some of the contributions proposed by the Senators. I am thinking of the sustainability of the TODE scheme for seasonal workers, or of the contemporaneization of the calculation of social contributions for farmers. Other additions, on the other hand, seem less relevant. In this way, we will propose to reinstate the annual update of the floor rate for home help services. We will also propose to make the arrangements for the care of psychologists less restrictive. In general, on psychiatry and mental health, we regret the lack of ambition while the needs have been increased by the health crisis. At the beginning of my speech, I referred to the future of our social security model. Like others, I have learned of the leaks from the High Council report, one of which is one of the four scenarios for the creation of a great social security for the disease branch. We are not fooled by the timetable for this reflection, carried out a few months before the presidential election, but we would like to know more about the Government's intentions on the contours, the funding and the method you are considering, as the social partners have not been consulted at this stage. Such a project, if completed, would have a major impact on the daily lives of our compatriots. We believe that, if there is a debate, it can be conducted methodically and by preserving the imperatives of justice and solidarity, in the interests of all our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u57	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u58	Hippocrates' Serment: "My first concern will be to restore, preserve or promote health in all its elements, physical and mental, individual and social. Over the past four years, unfortunately, this has been the last of the concerns of this government and this majority. For example, in the area of mental health, the sector is dying from chronic underfunding, which is twice as weak as the rest of our system of care, which is already very anemic. In 30 years, the number of beds in psychiatric hospitals has been halved despite the increase in the population. What are you proposing in this last bill on the financing of social security? A last-minute amendment, unsatisfactory on the care taken by psychologists, and an article on the judge's control of measures of restraint in psychiatry, but nothing to stop the shortage of staff, at the origin of the measures of these restraints. The Senate found it so unworthy that it rejected the article for a real debate on psychiatry. [[Caroline Fiat applauds]] "I will respect all people, their autonomy and their will. I will intervene to protect them if they are weakened, vulnerable or threatened with integrity or dignity. How can you respect the most fragile people if you do not pay decently those who care for them? How can we satisfy ourselves with crumbs for home helpers, of a few euros per month when their remuneration is on average 710 euros? This increase will barely offset the inflation forecast for next year. [[Caroline Fiat applauds]] "I will inform patients of the proposed decisions, their reasons and their consequences. I will never deceive their trust and will not exploit the power inherited from the circumstances to force consciences. How can you still have confidence in this government and this majority, after all the lies you have told the French and French since the beginning of this crisis? On February 18, 2020, after imposing 12 billion budget cuts on health insurance, Minister Véran said loud and clear: "In the face of the epidemic, France is ready. There will not be a single French department that will not be equipped to deal with the epidemic threat if the situation is to arise." On March 20, 2020, in front of the obvious, he was forced to admit: "We were a country that, alas! was not prepared from the point of view of masks and protective equipment. And since then, only selective oblivion, bad faith, confused, contradictory or austere communication! Since mid-October, you've paid for the screening tests. As a result, there are more people who carry the virus without knowledge and a tool to track the epidemic less...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u59	Oh!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u60	...not to mention the beds and services that continue to close in the midst of a pandemic. Absolutely normal. In Guadeloupe, where the ratio of GDP per capita is 37% lower than the metropolis, where one in three young people is unemployed and where water cuts are daily, after four years of neglect on your part, which are added to decades of relegation and discrimination, your authoritarian strategy towards caregivers has provoked strikes, demonstrations and a movement of social revolt. You did it faster to send police officers there than to rebuild the hospital or to reopen services and beds. By making these choices, foolish in terms of public health, constraint and budgetary logic, you are once again demonstrating that your software puts the economy, accounting before the human. "I will give my care to the needy and to anyone who asks me. I will not be influenced by the thirst for gain or the search for glory. However, since the beginning of the quinquennium, public-private partnerships have increased: 700 biotech start-ups have been encouraged to settle in France, Sanofi continues to receive tax credits from the state while planning to abolish 1,000 more jobs in three years and to install a new plant in Singapore. Orpea, Ramsay Santé, Vivalto Santé, DomusVi: Private, lucrative clinics and EHPAD thrive. "I will do everything I can to alleviate the suffering. I will not unduly prolong the agonies." Relieving suffering in EHPAD: Let's talk about it! The staff reinforcements you promise are so indigent that they will worsen the current ratio of caregivers per resident.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u61	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u62	"I will help my colleagues and their families in adversity. Clearly, those excluded from Ségur and all the staff who call for mobilization, such as midwives this week and inter-hospital collectives next week, have hardly felt this solidarity on your part. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] In short, your shortcomings – those of the Government and those of the majority – and your austere policies will naturally lead us to vote against this bill on the financing of social security, to which, faithful to the principles of Hippocrates, we will ensure, as early as 2022, decent and sufficient funding.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u63	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u64	The French language is rich, but at first reading you used all its superlatives to replenish you with the greatness of this bill to finance social security.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u65	Right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u66	The French language is rich, but all the words that describe the weakening of the public hospital are worn to the rope. While our country is experiencing a new epidemic wave and the health crisis makes its effects felt beyond covid, this budget, far from responding to the hospital crisis, is limited to a rafistolage operation, after two years of pandemic. That is the meaning of the EUR 1.7 billion budget extension that you granted to the Senate on ONDAM 2021, in order to meet the additional costs. By the way, you may tell us how much money has been used to pay the dividends of the shareholders of Pfizer et al. If you welcome the fact that no austerity measures are planned for hospitals – still happy, thank you boss! –, you omit to say that you have imposed a savings plan of 18 billion on our health care system since 2017, of which 4 billion have been borne by hospitals. You are also silent about the removal of 13300 beds since 2017, including 5700 in 2020 alone. And, once the storm has passed, you will return to your old habits with new remedial measures in the social sphere. Of course, the weakening of the hospital does not date back to 2017, but it has been pursued methodically under this quinquennium with the reduction of expenditure, the amplification of the outpatient shift, the maintenance of activity pricing (T2A) which financially asphyxiates the establishments, the closure of local hospitals and maternity hospitals or the integration of establishments within the territorial hospital groups (GHT), which dry up the provision of care in the territories. At the same time, the health crisis has revealed the unwavering commitment of staff, and the Government has been caught up in the reality, granting with the Ségur a salary increase expected for too long but which does not compensate for 10 years of index point freeze. Tardif, insufficient, incomplete, the Ségur did not allow to put an end to the hospital malaise that had been spreading for many years. Above all, there were forgotten people and, as we had asked, you had an emergency provision adopted in the Senate to revalue the 20,000 agents of social and medical-social institutions involved in the field of disability. On the basis of findings on the ground, the Scientific Council was alarmed in October by the number of beds closed due to a shortage of health workers and the rise in the rate of absences, revealing a real crisis of meaning. Emergency services remain closed and many facilities are slowing down. That's where we are! But I sometimes feel that there is, in the majority, a bit of fanfare in the air – electoral campaign obliges; You're welcome, though. [[Caroline Fiat applauds]] Beyond the present situation, this budget does not prepare for the future. It does not prepare our public health system to face the pandemic risks of tomorrow. It does not prepare the fight against medical desertification, which increases and weakens access to care. You rely on insufficient incentives and the delegation of medical tasks to other health professions, the list of which is growing every year. The abolition of the numerus clausus, for which we have been battalions for decades, is only an artifice if it is not accompanied by a plan of opening sufficient places in all the professions of medicine, care and accompaniment. Nor does it prepare our care system to meet the challenge of self-reliance. The great reform announced will not take place, and we must be content with disparate measures which, considered one by one, sometimes go in the right direction, but do not create a large public service of autonomy or finance needs. It does not prepare the future, finally, of the financing of social protection. The expenses you incur to manage the health crisis are not funded and will feed the social debt hosted by CADES. Exemptions from social security contributions, which you endure, amount to 70 billion euros: 13 % of the revenue is thus exempt from social security. Rather than looking for resources at your fingertips, you are coming out of the verse about the need for a return to balance of social accounts, which will justify new clear cuts with, in line with the focus, our retirement system – as the minister delegate said himself. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR, SOC and FI groups]] The crisis should lead us to question the choices that, for decades, have particularly damaged social security, public hospital, solidarity – and, by the way, exhausted the richness of the French language. This last budget, alas, does not go the way.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u67	Mr Paul Christophe has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u68	We are addressing the re-reading of the 2022 Social Security Financing Bill from the Senate. In addition to being the last of the legislature, this PLFSS is part of the particular context of a health and economic crisis with which it bears the stigma. We have already had the opportunity to report on the significant progress it entails. We also delivered a speech of truth about the gaps and improvements that need to be made. As far as the hospital sector is concerned, this PLFSS marks a break with the past: no savings will be requested from the public hospital. Better: we appreciate the investment support and financial capacity restoration measures offered to health and medical-social institutions, which are a translation of the Ségur de la santé. We welcome the measures for the development of biosimilar medicines, but they are too limited and we would have liked to go even further in this process. The PLFSS is also continuing to implement the commitments to improve health care providers and to improve the health system made in the framework of the Ségur de la santé in July 2020. We welcome this historic investment, especially for the hospital, which has been abandoned for far too long by public policies. The PLFSS is the translation of this, since EUR 12.5 billion will be spent on it. On this point, at first reading, we called on the Government not to make new "forgotten" in the medical and social sector, particularly in the field of disability. We therefore very much welcome the extension, introduced in the Senate at the initiative of the Government, of the revalorisations of Ségur to more than 20,000 employees of establishments for disabled persons financed by the departments. The final negotiations are still to be concluded: I am thinking of the educators and the technical and administrative channels, which are essential for the proper functioning of the medical and social sector. The draft budget before us includes another key component for the future of our society: autonomy. It is indeed an implacable demographic reality: we are ageing, France is aging. It is also a major challenge that raises the question of the sustainability of our retirement system and the attention we pay to our seniors. While the Action Together Group regrets the absence of a law on the old age, the chapter on the autonomy of this PLFSS nevertheless marks a new important step, after the creation of the fifth branch: new measures will be initiated in 2022 for an amount of 400 million, and this effort will gradually intensify to reach 1.3 billion by 2025. Because the residential shift is first and foremost an aspiration of the elderly themselves and because it is fully part of the solution to the challenge of autonomy, we welcome the introduction of a floor rate of 22 euros per hour for home care services. It will help to reduce disparities between departments and improve the quality of service, both for accompanied persons and for SAAD employees, home support and support services. At first reading, the House adopted an amendment by our group aimed at creating a supplementary quality allocation of EUR 3 in order to make use of the enhanced accompanying offers, but also to finance actions in favour of service staff. At the initiative of our colleague Agnès Firmin Le Bodo, the Assembly had also given the Caisse nationale de solidarité pour l'autonomy (CNSA) a new mission to advise and support departmental services in the management of rights and legal benefits in support of the autonomy of the elderly and disabled. I had the honour of defending, on behalf of my group, an amendment which will make it possible to extend the benefit of close leave to persons classified in IRM (iso-resource group) 4 and to revalue its compensation at the level of the SMIC. I thank the Government for allowing this major step forward, which we can all welcome. This is a significant change in the scope of the beneficiaries and in the amount of the allowance; We will still have to appreciate the duration of it better. We welcome the fact that the High Assembly has retained these great advances, as well as the reimbursement of contraception for women up to the age of 25 or the care of psychological consultations. However, we regret the removal by honourable senators of several provisions that members of our group had passed at first reading. I am thinking of the experiment given to midwives, proposed by Annie Chapelier, or of the supervision of the digital services used by complementary health care in the framework of the full-paying third party, defended by Agnès Firmin Le Bodo. We will propose that these arrangements be re-established. [[Applause on the banks of the Action ens, LaREM and Dem groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, I cannot be exhaustive, but you will have understood this: our group is approaching this new examination in a spirit of openness, faithful to its constructive approach. We will fully support the strong measures contained in it, particularly in terms of autonomy and access to care, and we will be able to make a proposal to improve it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u69	The general discussion is closed. The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u70	Mr President, I ask for a five-minute suspension of the sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u71	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u72	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u73	I now call the clauses of the bill on which the two assemblies were unable to arrive at the same text. Having voted in accordance with the first part of the bill, we are dealing with the second part of the bill, concerning the provisions relating to the year 2021.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u74	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 86 and 243, to delete Article 4a. The rapporteur-general has the floor to support Amendment No. 86.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u75	We are resuming a debate that we had at first reading on the exceptional contribution on supplementary health insurance organizations (CHIs). The Senate wanted to increase it, which leads to a change in the balance found in this PLFSS as in last year's Social Security Financing Act. It does not seem appropriate to go in this direction, as this would ultimately weigh on the contributions of insured persons. I therefore propose that you delete this article.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u76	I call Mr Dominique Da Silva to support Amendment No. 243.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u77	As the rapporteur-general points out, it is important not to increase the contributions of insured persons. On the other hand, I would like to know whether we have any evidence to combat the myth that complementary health care costs would be saved and that they would be well paid for health care costs.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u78	The Deputy Minister for Self-Government has the floor to give the Government's opinion on these amendments to delete the article.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u79	Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u80	Mr Jean-Pierre Door has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u81	Double taxation on OCAMs is quite unusual, especially since these complementary bodies, let us not forget, acted quite responsibly during the year 2021 to ensure the effectiveness of 100% health in the fields imposed by the Government, namely optics, dental prostheses and audioprosthetics. I would like to take advantage of the fact that we were referring to the supplementarys to ask the Government about the status of the major social security project. It seems to me that bringing our system closer to the British NHS – National Health Service – would be detrimental to our country. Let us remember that the complementarys were born in France in the inter-war period, even before social security.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u82	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u83	You have already loaded the mule with regard to mutuals and I understand that you did not want to go any further, especially since, according to the echoes that come to my mind, some of them are facing difficulties since they bear the burden of further tax increases without increasing the contributions of their insured persons. It would be good to take stock of that. Not wishing to go in the direction of the Senate, I will vote for these deletion amendments. Having said that, I consider that such a situation cannot continue. At this stage of the review of the PLFSS, we may not be discussing the issues that Jean-Pierre Door rightly raises, especially since a recent report will allow us to open the discussion. But I urge you once again to draw a distinction between mutuals and complementary for-profit organizations, which are not entirely housed in the same brand.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u84	The rapporteur-general's amendment No 67 to delete Article 4b is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u85	I have before me two amendments, Nos. 54 and 116, which may be subject to a joint debate and which seek to restore Article 5, which has been deleted by the Senate. I call Mr Michel Castellani to support Amendment No. 54.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u86	By this amendment, it is indeed proposed to reinstate Article 5 deleted in the Senate, while ensuring that the selection of investment projects by RHAs is based on criteria related to access to and quality of care. These investment projects are intended not only to improve the financial situation of the institutions but also to contribute to the continuity of care, the quality of care and local access. Above all, they cannot provide the opportunity to carry out restructuring and closures of beds or services. This clarification seems necessary, given the very worrying situation in our health facilities. It should be recalled that, within a year, twenty-five public and private establishments were closed and 5758 beds were abolished. In terms of investment, it is important to renew a positive approach in terms of recruitment, means and quality of care, and to break with decades of budgetary restraint.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u87	The rapporteur-general has the floor to support Amendment No 116 and give the committee's opinion on Amendment No 54.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u88	The Commission's amendment seeks to re-establish Article 5 in the wording of the first reading, at which time a Government amendment was adopted setting 2028 as the deadline for contracts to be signed. Mr Castellani, my position will be the same as at first reading. The contracts signed by RHAs and health facilities are obviously aimed at improving access to and quality of care, notably through the restoration of current investment, which is less than 3% in too many facilities today. New facilities in hospitals will thus improve the quality of care and working conditions in the next 10 years. The combination of criteria that you propose in your amendment would prevent essential actions such as the deleveraging of hospitals. So I'm going to be unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u89	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u90	Favourable to No 116 and unfavourable to No 54.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u91	I put to the vote the whole of the second part of the Social Security Financing Bill for 2022.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u92	We are now dealing with the third part of the bill, concerning the revenue and general balance provisions for the year 2022.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u93	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor to support Amendment No. 197.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u94	By this amendment, we call for the deletion of Article 10. The USSRAF is constantly adding new missions, which raises the question of the number of people to be hired to carry them out. The process of unification of recovery is not a guarantee of greater efficiency, on the contrary. The caisses concerned, the trade unions and even the MEDEF – the French business movement – are deeply concerned about the impact on employment in the caisses and the risk of an industrial bug similar to that which had occurred at the time of the unification linked to the abolition of the social regime of the self-employed (RSI) in 2017. In reality, unification seems to be preparing for future pension reform. Last year, supplementary pensions, part of special schemes and public employers were concerned. The impact study also specified: "These different stages will allow the unification of the recovery of social contributions to be a useful acquis for the future implementation of the pension reform". The addition this year of the main pension fund for the liberal professions is a new step in creating the technical conditions for a merger of special schemes into a universal pension system.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u95	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u96	Unfavorable opinion, as at first reading. I would remind you that this transfer of the recovery is carried out in good intelligence with the inter-branch pension and old-age insurance fund (CIPAV), which publicly praised it. The corresponding transfer of all full-time equivalents (FTEs) to the USSRAF will take place within a time frame which will allow the social partners to discuss its modalities as calmly as possible. It should be added that this transfer will improve the collection of contributions by at least 10 points while simplifying the lives of contributors.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u97	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u98	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u99	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u100	You are quoting a single partner when, as I pointed out in the summary statement of my amendment, all the trade unions but also the MEDEF, a rare configuration, agree that unification is dangerous.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u101	The rapporteur-general has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u102	Mrs Fiat, it is not a partner but the CIPAV where all the social partners are represented – and I repeat, this fund has welcomed this transfer.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u103	The rapporteur-general has the floor to support Amendment No. 139.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u104	This amendment is almost editorial.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u105	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u106	From now on, I too will say that my amendments are almost editorial.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u107	Mrs Nicole Sanquer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u108	If I have asked to be included in Article 11aa, it is because I fear that I will not be able to defend my amendment No 26, which is likely to fall because of the adoption of the deletion amendments. The exemption of CSG and CRDS introduced in this article for French nationals abroad should be extended to French nationals of French Polynesia and New Caledonia. As you can see, these people are already contributing to a local social security scheme – the social security fund for French Polynesia and the social welfare fund for New Caledonia. In addition, they must pay the CSG and the CRDS on the income they derive from their assets in metropolitan France, whereas they will never be covered by national health insurance. This inequality of treatment is all the more unacceptable since the Social Security Financing Act for 2019 provides for an exemption from these levies for French residents of the European Economic Area and Switzerland. In other words, what we have been able to do for French residents in certain foreign countries, we do not do this for French residents in France, I mean our compatriots in the Pacific. I therefore call on you, ladies and gentlemen, to reject the deletion amendments and to adopt my amendment No 26 to put an end to this injustice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u109	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u110	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 68 and 184, to delete Article 11a A. The rapporteur-general has the floor to support Amendment No. 68.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u111	In line with what our Assembly voted on first reading but also in previous years, I propose that you delete the provisions which totally exempt from CSG and CRDS the French income of non-European residents. It was logical for us to exempt European nationals from these social contributions, since we are in an area where social security legislation is coordinated according to a case-law of the Court of Justice. This is not the case for other countries. The same reasoning prompted us at first reading to reject a similar initiative aimed at exempting Polynesians and New Caledonians: the jurisprudence of the Union also does not apply to overseas countries and territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u112	I call Mr Dharréville to support Amendment No. 184.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u113	[[Smile. – Mrs Caroline Fiat applauds]] We are also opposed to this measure introduced by the Senate, which is helping to create a new form of exemption; But I would not like the rapporteur-general to take the opportunity to claim that he has adopted an amendment from the GDR Group. That would be a bit of an abuse!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u114	The rapporteur-general has the floor to support Amendment No 69, which seeks to delete Rule 11a B.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u115	The purpose of this article introduced by the Senate is to create a new capital income tax. It is a question of returning to the position adopted at first reading by the House.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u116	The rapporteur-general has the floor to support Amendment No. 70, which seeks the deletion of Rule 12a A.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u117	Indeed, for two reasons: on the one hand, most of the article constitutes a legislative cavalier, since it relates to the relations between insured persons, undertakings and OCAM; On the other hand, in addition to its lack of figures, the exemption it provides would mechanically increase the amount of collective guarantees and would likely lead to an increase in premiums for all insured persons.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u118	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 71 and 242, to delete Article 12a B. The rapporteur-general has the floor to support Amendment No. 71.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u119	It is again a question of returning to the position adopted by the Assembly at first reading. According to the 2017 report of the Inspectorate-General for Social Affairs (IGAS) and the 2019 overview of the Directorate of Research, Studies, Evaluation and Statistics (DREES), 45 million insured persons have access to care networks; However, an inconsiderable increase in the additional solidarity tax would probably kill the latter, to the detriment of their beneficiaries. I admit that no study has been able to establish clearly the merits of these networks, but the same is true of their shortcomings, and the consequences of their disappearance remain uncertain. For all these reasons, the committee proposes to delete the article.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u120	Amendment No 242 by Mr Dominique Da Silva is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u121	The Committee's amendment No. 72 to delete Rule 12a(c) is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u122	Amendment No 73 of the committee, which tends to delete Rule 12a D, is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u123	The Commission's identical amendments No 84 and Mr Pierre Dharréville's 185, which - perhaps not for the same reasons - tend to...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u124	[[Smile]] But we'll meet again!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u125	... to delete Article 12 bis E, are defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u126	Amendment No 74 of the committee, which tends to delete Article 12c, is not supported.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u127	Amendment No 75 of the Committee, which seeks the deletion of Article 12d, is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u128	The president is a magician: he makes the articles disappear!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u129	Amendment No 76 of the Committee, which seeks the deletion of Rule 13a A, is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u130	The rapporteur-general has the floor to support Amendment No. 140.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u131	The Senate has added to this article a new derogation from the five-year limitation on the status of collaborating spouse, on the basis of a flat-rate basis equal to half of the annual social security ceiling (PASS). For the sake of consistency with my refusal, at first reading, of such provisions, I propose that it be deleted. Without a framework, the possibility of derogation from this limitation would remove the substance of the article; However, since the status of collaborating spouse has adverse effects on the creation of social rights, it is legitimate to limit the duration of such rights.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u132	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u133	Favourable, subject to the adoption of Subamendment 386.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u134	No. 386 was registered as an amendment, Madam Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u135	In any event, it is intended to adjust the wording of article 14 with regard to the duration during which it will be possible to engage in an activity under the status of collaborating spouse. In the original Government text, this period could not exceed five years; the Assembly introduced at first reading a derogation in favour of persons enjoying this status, who are approaching the retirement age. The amendment supported by the rapporteur-general seeks to reverse the changes that would have kept this status without any time limit. In order to supplement it, the Government wishes to clarify the derogation scheme by changing the reference age, as many of the working spouses retire after 62 years, the minimum age required to claim their pension rights; It is therefore more appropriate to allow for the retention of the status of working spouses than less than five years apart from the age of liquidation of a full pension, i.e. 67 years. Moreover, the current wording of Article 14 provides for this derogation as a perennial, which is contained in the Commercial Code. However, if a relaxation is conceivable in favour of people who now exercise this status and are close to retirement, its sustainability would run counter to the objective of the text. That is why I would ask you to adopt Amendment No 386, which is intended to reserve the benefit of this amendment to co-workers who have already been registered as such and who are at least 57 years old on 1 January.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u136	Mr rapporteur-general, is Amendment No 140 withdrawn?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u137	Absolutely not, Mr. President. If I understand correctly, has the Deputy Minister just supported the Government's amendment No. 386?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u138	Madam Deputy Minister, aren't you against No. 140?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u139	No, no!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u140	The Government's amendment No. 386 was defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u141	Mr Jean-Pierre Door has the floor to support Amendment No. 35.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u142	This amendment, which Mr Bazin and I co-signed, is in line with those tabled by my colleagues and which has not been defended. It is intended that, at the end of the five-year period, the co-employed spouse will be able to maintain his status by contributing either from a flat-rate basis equal to one-third of the PASS or from one-half of the income of the head of business, if that income is itself greater than one-third of the PASS. We must relax this status by giving those who wish to do so the opportunity to continue their activity as such for more than five years.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u143	Mrs Nicole Sanquer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u144	The rapporteur-general, you have defended in committee an amendment to restore this article to the wording adopted at first reading by the National Assembly, which is tantamount to crushing that of senators. This one, which comes from the work of your counterpart in the Senate – Élisabeth Doineau, of the Centralist Union Group – makes the application of the safeguard clause more legible, predictable, and progressive. During the review of the previous PLFSS, the Government had undertaken, by way of amendment, to publish a mid-year indicator for implementation: we regret that this commitment has not been fulfilled. The progressivity desired by the Senate will allow the companies concerned to anticipate their repayments. We are many here to warn you, for years, that our companies need stability, predictability, and that the standards we adopt hinder their development or deployment. The device provided for in Article 16 is intelligent; progressive, it offers them better visibility. Our group therefore strongly supports the wording adopted by the Senate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u145	The rapporteur-general has the floor to support Amendment No 141, which is the subject of a sub-amendment No 372.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u146	It aims to restore the drafting chosen by the Assembly, modulo some welcome editorial corrections made by the Senate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u147	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor to support sub-amendment No. 372.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u148	Modulo a few figures from the Senate, to pass on the rapporteur-general, we want to replace the amount of EUR 24.5 billion with that of EUR 23.5 billion. The pharmaceutical industry and its leaders have never been as well as in this period of health crisis. In 2020, Sanofi's net profit increased by 340%, reaching 12.3 billion; dividends amounted to 4 billion, up for the twenty-seventh consecutive year; With a salary of about 12 million, Paul Hudson is the third best paid boss of the CAC40. The company does not intend to devote this manna to research and development: the historical failure of its attempts to develop a vaccine against covid-19 has obviously not led it to question itself, nor has the disastrous image it has given of France, the country where the first vaccines were created. As for making his employees benefit from it, he would miss only that! It announced 1,700 layoffs, including more than 1,000 in France. How can we explain such a paradox, which is found in the other giants of the sector? By the fact that the drug manufacturers are turning into financiers; the eyes of their leaders turn to the remuneration of capital rather than to research and work. It would therefore be wise for the House to ask them to rebalance their ambitions: it is not for the health system to replenish their margins, or even their research and development budgets, but rather for them to moderate the appetites of their shareholders. It is high time to show firmness towards them. The safeguard clause, contained in this article, must enable us to stop the steady growth of health insurance expenditure in respect of reimbursed medicines, the sale of which benefits industrialists. The aim of the scheme is to contain the development of gross turnover in this field: the breach of the ceiling set by the draft law triggers a progressive compulsory contribution, shared between the enterprises in the sector. We therefore propose that, for the first time, this ceiling be revalued downwards rather than upwards.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u149	There!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u150	What is the committee's opinion on the sub-amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u151	The committee has delivered an unfavorable opinion, because you are proposing nothing less than a reduction of EUR 1 billion...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u152	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u153	... the amount M, whose overrun activates the safeguard clause. That would go back to the commitments...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u154	We're the ones who decide!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u155	... of the Strategic Council of the Health Industries (CSIS), which strike a balance between the necessary control of expenditure and support for investment, as well as the relocation of the production of medicines.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u156	Well, congratulations!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u157	What is the Government's opinion on the amendment and the sub-amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u158	Favourable under No 141, unfavourable to No 372.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u159	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u160	I will be brief, Mr President: who decides, in this country, the CISC or the National Assembly? In the latest news, the people elect the deputies, but not the members of the CISS!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u161	It is precisely we who will decide, by voting!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u162	Mr Jean-Pierre Door has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u163	[[Protests on the benches of the FI group]] This safeguard clause is indeed the subject of a kind of ping-pong game between the Assembly and the Senate. We still have to be careful that, thanks to it, the French pharmaceutical industry – I insist on the latter adjective – will repay a considerable amount. The growth of its turnover did indeed accelerate last year, to 8%, while the activation of the safeguard clause was set at around 1%, so it will return 7%. This is called a sanction, and we must stop punishing pharmaceutical companies. The more we tighten their throats, the less it will remain of the French pharmaceutical industry! She's already in hindsight. You know, Mrs. Fiat, we need these companies!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u164	What about their employees?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u165	The drugs that allow us to treat our patients do not come out of nowhere: they come from research and production. We have successful companies in this area; By taxing them, pressing them, we'll end up losing them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u166	They've never made so many profits!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u167	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor to support Amendment No. 198.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u168	Despite the lack of transparency in the provision of massive aid to companies such as the Research Tax Credit (RTC), we now know that the pharmaceutical industry, because of its research and development activities, is one of the main sectors benefiting from it. This does not prevent him from destroying jobs in France – Caroline Fiat cited Sanofi's example in this regard, which, however, benefits a great deal from the CIR. Not only does it have no significant effect on employment, but it does not further influence the tariff policy of these industrialists, at least aggressively, vis-à-vis health insurance. However, it would be entirely logical for the calculation of the rate of change in turnover to include all the resources collected by the company. [[Caroline Fiat applauds]] Moreover, the amendment that our group had co-written with the Monitoring Centre for Transparency in Drug Policies (OTMEDS) and with the Minister of Solidarity and Health, which had been adopted in the framework of the PLFSS for 2021, had led to the creation of an article obliging drug manufacturers to publish the detailed amount of public contributions to their research and the development of their health products. However, this new article has still not been the subject of a decree – proof, if any, of the Government's culpability. Recall that in June 2020 a decree was published in the Italian Official Journal written by Luca Li Bassi, former Director General of the Italian Medicines Agency, AIFA – Agenzia italiana del farmaco – and chairman of the negotiating group on the resolution on transparency adopted by the World Health Organization (WHO) in May 2019. As a signatory to this resolution, France must follow the Italian model and demand transparency on industrial expenditure in research and development activities as well as on public contributions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u169	Too bad! You don't like transparency.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u170	The committee's amendment No. 77, which would delete the article, was not supported.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u171	I have two identical amendments before me, Nos 118 and 186. The rapporteur-general has the floor to support Amendment No. 118.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u172	As this amendment from the committee has been adopted on a proposal from Mrs Dufeu, I will allow her to defend it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u173	Mrs Audrey Dufeu has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u174	It is intended to correct the margin of the Senate by re-establishing the concept of recidivism and by adding the notion of delay. The Assembly had in fact voted, at first reading, a fine against the distribution wholesalers, known as short liners, who repeat their failure to comply with their public service commitment; Today we propose to introduce a five-year period for the finding of recidivism.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u175	I call Mr Dharréville to support Amendment No. 186.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u176	It is indeed very useful to try to clean up the operation of the sector and to try to combat shortages by tackling short liners in this case. The wording proposed by the Senate, which is much more restrictive and more difficult to interpret by the judge than that adopted by the National Assembly, runs counter to the effectiveness of the article: it refers to a "serious and repeated failure constituting a risk to the security of the supply of medicines". The original article was much clearer and we propose to go back to it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u177	I have before me two identical amendments, No 119 corrected and 183 corrected. The rapporteur-general has the floor to support Amendment No 119, as corrected by the committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u178	It is intended to re-establish provisions deleted by the Senate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u179	I call Mrs Michèle de Vaucouleurs to support Amendment No. 183, as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u180	By re-establishing the provisions of Article 16 ter deleted by the Senate, it seeks to specify the arrangements for the approval, composition and operation of local ethics committees which will be responsible for the evaluation of the ethical dimension of non-interventional research, so as to guarantee the conditions of impartiality and independence required. It also provides for provisions taking into account the recommendations of the Rossignol report "Clinical Trials in Epidemic Context": it perpetuates the possibility of a short circuit system, called fast track, for the examination of research involving the human person (RIPH) related to a health emergency; It aims to facilitate outpatient clinical trials, by allowing for home sampling of the patient without specific authorisation and the designation of outpatient co-ordinators.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u181	Identical amendments No 78 of the Committee and 246 of Mrs Aurore Bergé, which seek to delete Article 16c, are defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u182	The Committee's amendment No. 79 to delete Article 16d is in defence.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u183	Is Amendment No 215 to delete Article 17 defended, Mrs Fiat?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u184	I will take the floor to defend him because I have been repeating the same things for five years. But by repeating, we finally convince! We once again call the Government's attention to the wage tax to which public hospitals are subjected. In 2018, the Court of Auditors considered that the collection of this tax was not efficient and that it had a significant circulation: it proposed a simplification path that could be explored by excluding national public institutions without gainful activity and social security organisations from the field. You see that this is not a "bad" idea of the "bad" Members of Parliament of France, since it is the Court of Auditors that proposes it to you! This tax still accounts for EUR 4 billion of expenditure each year for our public hospitals, which are desperately underfunded. We therefore propose that it be finally abolished.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u185	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u186	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u187	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u188	It is also unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u189	That's not an answer!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u190	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u191	Earlier, in response to the motion of rejection that I defended, you told me that you wanted to debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u192	Not me!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u193	No, not you, Mr. Vallaud, actually! I too want to debate and I would like to hear arguments to justify unfavourable opinions on this proposal from the Court of Auditors! It is easy, Mr rapporteur-general, to say that you want to debate and that you are here for that, and then just say that you are unfavorable!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u194	Mr Jean-Pierre Door has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u195	I regret that the committee has come back to the amendment introduced by the Senate on Rule 17, rapporteur-general. As we have already said, the budget transfer of almost EUR 1 billion between the family and the disease branches is pipework! This transfer breaks down our country's family policy, which is affected by a significant reduction in family allowances and which already suffers terribly with, every year, a birth deficit. Family policy must not be treated like this! This transfer of 1 billion Paul to Peter is really unfortunate, and I find it regrettable that you are coming back, Mr. Rapporteur General, on the cancellation by the Senate of your project.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u196	The rapporteur-general has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u197	You're right, Mrs. Fiat, we can still argue. But on the substance, in this case, we have already answered you, not only at first reading but also in the course of the previous debates. Above all, we can debate if we talk about the subject. But your comment has nothing to do with article 17.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u198	We can leave if you want! It was not I who placed our amendment in this place of the text!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u199	Amendment No 142 of the committee is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u200	Amendment No. 356 corrected by the Government is forbidden. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u201	Favourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u202	I wish I had said something!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u203	You can talk to Mrs. Fiat, just ask for it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u204	I raised my hand desperately! I just wanted to point out to you, Mr rapporteur-general, that it is not us who put our amendments on the various articles of the text, but on the services of the House. I am sorry if our amendment has been on Article 17 and you have been displeased!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u205	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u206	Yes, I do!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u207	Amendment No. 358 of the Government is forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u208	The rapporteur-general has the floor to support amendment No. 129 of the committee to re-establish Rule 23 and Annex B, which has been deleted by the Senate. The amendment is the subject of a sub-amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u209	The amendment is intended to restore Annex B.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u210	I call Mrs Danièle Obono to support sub-amendment No. 366.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u211	We want to warn about the underfunding of the autonomy branch and its dependence on the CSG. Annex B of the PLFSS specifies the revenue and expenditure, branch by branch, of the general scheme by 2025. As regards the autonomy branch, newly created from already existing funds, two elements are to be noted. On the one hand, it concentrates almost all of CSG's revenues, one of the taxes that minimizes inequality. On the other hand, we note that with revenue of €31.8 billion, the autonomy branch is underfunded: it is underfunded in relation to expenditure, which are expected to amount to €32.3 billion according to the Government's forecasts, but above all in relation to needs! The report by our colleagues Caroline Fiat and Monique Iborra in 2018 called for an abundance of €20 billion for EHPAD, not to mention the needs of the disability and home help sector. By choosing not to increase funding for people who are losing their autonomy, the Government is complicit in the indigence of a public offer that gives prominence to the private sector and paves the way for all the inequalities resulting from it. We denounce these manoeuvres and propose, through this amendment, the deletion of the paragraphs at issue in Article 23.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u212	I put to the vote the whole of Part Three of the Social Security Financing Bill for 2022.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u213	We are dealing with the fourth part of the bill, concerning the expenditure provisions for the year 2022.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u214	Amendments Nos 259, 249, 250, 251, 252, 253, 254, 255 and 256 by the rapporteur-general are drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u215	I call Mr Michel Castellani to support Amendment No. 64.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u216	This article aims to integrate telemedicine testing for the improvement of health pathways (ETAPES) into the common law, which has proved to be a very valuable tool for combating ruptures in healthcare pathways linked in particular to the health crisis; It is also an effective tool to facilitate journeys in a context of limited human resources. The purpose of our amendment is to establish interoperable systems in this area.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u217	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u218	Mr. Castellani, your amendment is satisfied with a provision introduced by the Senate in the seventh paragraph of section 24. I therefore invite you to withdraw it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u219	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u220	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u221	The rapporteur-general's amendment No 257 is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u222	The rapporteur-general has the floor to support Amendment No. 143 of the Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u223	It is intended to remove a regulatory provision adopted by the Senate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u224	Amendments Nos 258 and 260 by the rapporteur-general are drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u225	The rapporteur-general has the floor to support Amendment No. 144 of the Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u226	It is intended to delete a provision introduced by the Senate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u227	The rapporteur-general has the floor to support Amendment No. 145 as corrected by the Committee on Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u228	It provides for the necessary coordination for the unfortunate postponement of the reform of the funding of follow-up care and rehabilitation (SSR) activities.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u229	The Minister-in-Office has the floor to support Amendment No. 379.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u230	It introduces into the text the principle of the dematerialization of transmissions for all care, products and services invoiced by health institutions. In other words, it proposes to simplify administrative tasks for health personnel and facilities.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u231	Amendment No 262 by the rapporteur-general is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u232	The committee's amendment No. 80 to delete Rule 27a is in defence.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u233	Amendment No 336 by the rapporteur-general is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u234	The rapporteur-general has the floor to support Amendment No. 138 of the Committee, which seeks to re-establish Rule 28 and is the subject of a sub-amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u235	It aims to restore the article as adopted by the National Assembly at first reading.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u236	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor to support sub-amendment No. 367.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u237	Pending a law terminating restraint measures in psychiatry services, we propose to limit the application of section 28 to a period of one year from the publication of the PLFSS. "Isolation and restraint are the worst violation of individual freedom! These words are those of Dominique Simonnot, Comptroller General of Places of Deprivation of Liberty. In view of the inflation of restraint measures, Article 28 is only a mistake. This amendment therefore proposes to limit its application to 12 months and to devote this period to the development of a genuine law to rebuild a mental health system for the 21st century, to preserve the dignity of patients and to restore the pride of their profession to caregivers. As soon as a text deals entirely with the subject, the temporary measure governing the restraint will no longer be necessary. Last Thursday, I went to the day hospital of the villa Santos-Dumont, in the 15th arrondissement of Paris, where I met Xavier, a young autist. Could you, Madam Deputy Minister, convey to the Minister of Solidarity and Health the message Xavier gave me for him? He presented it in the form of a drawing – it's a shame, I can't show it to you here – the meaning of which is clear: we see Xavier himself, not happy, and the following words: "Stop wanting to tie me up! "
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u238	Oh!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u239	[[Smile. – Mrs. Danièle Obono applauds]] Xavier met Olivier Véran, took a photo with him and was vaccinated the same day as him. He was therefore particularly concerned that his message should be sent to him. It's done now. I am counting on you, Madam Deputy Minister. Thank you for doing the mailman!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u240	I can do anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u241	What is the committee's opinion on the sub-amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u242	Unfavorable opinion. After two constitutional censorships and the necessary legislative changes, our psychiatric hospitals need above all stability and effective implementation of the reform of the sector and the recommendations of good practice of the HAS.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u243	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u244	But it's not for lack of having told you!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u245	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u246	Same opinion on the sub-amendment. The Government supports the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u247	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u248	[[Mrs. Danièle Obono applauds]] I do not understand this opposition to our sub-amendment. We propose to apply the Government's provision for one year and to take advantage of this period to roll up our sleeves and consider solutions to eliminate restraint in psychiatry. How would this measure be unconstitutional? You seem to admit that there is nothing more to do and that the practice of physical and chemical restraint in psychiatry will be maintained for decades to come! Do you not think that we should instead give ourselves the means, working for a year, to achieve our goal, which is to remove restraint? I call on the House to adopt this sub-amendment. We would thus show that we all have the will here to abolish this practice!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u249	Mrs Caroline Janvier, rapporteur of the Committee on Social Affairs for autonomy and the medical and social sector, has the floor to support Amendment No. 286.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u250	It's editorial, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u251	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 381 and 389. The Minister-in-Office has the floor to support Amendment No. 381.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u252	It extends the benefit of the new index grids from the Ségur de la santé to professionals who had not been selected at the first reading of the Social Security Financing Bill for 2022.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u253	Amendment No 389 by Mrs Caroline Janvier, rapporteur, and by the rapporteur-general is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u254	The rapporteur's amendments Nos 287, 289 and 291 are drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u255	Amendment No 146 of the Committee on Social Affairs is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u256	I have two identical amendments before me, Nos 188 and 345. I call Mr Dharréville to support Amendment No. 188.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u257	It aims to provide for the annual arrangements for revalorisation of wage measures resulting from the Segur de la santé and the Laforcade agreements, taking into account inflation. In the current state of the law, these modalities are not specified. If we do not act, we may face the same difficulties that the Segur of Health has tried to prevent without, however, achieving.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u258	Amendment No 345 by Mr Joël Aviragnet is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u259	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 382 and 390. The Minister-in-Office has the floor to support Amendment No. 382.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u260	Like the previous amendment which I have defended, it provides for the extension of the salary adjustments provided for by the Ségur de la santé, to the benefit, this time, of the staff of the independent residences without a care package and of the experimental establishments for the elderly. Funding will be based on the departmental council with the assistance of CNSA.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u261	Amendment No 390 by Mrs Caroline Janvier, rapporteur and the rapporteur-general is being defended. Mr Jean-Pierre Door has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u262	As we refer to the salary increases resulting from the Ségur de la santé, I would like to draw the Government's attention to the specific situation of the Red Cross trainers, who have seized me personally – I am probably not the only one. The Red Cross trainers are several thousand in France and will not benefit from any salary adjustment, unlike public sector trainers, because of their status as private sector trainers. This has led to the flight of trainers from the private sector to the public sector. Don't shake your head, Madam Deputy Minister: I was arrested yesterday again by many of them, who feel they're on the sidelines. I have taken advantage of these amendments to convey their message to you and I ask you to answer their questions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u263	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u264	I wasn't humbling my head when you were talking, Mr. Door, I was asking my collaborators behind me to find out where we were on the issue that you're raising!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u265	Then excuse me!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u266	We will examine the situation of these trainers. The self-government sector employs professionals with multiple statuses. For each of them, we had to adjust the upgrade and this exercise is not over. The wage conference scheduled for mid-January will bring all situations to a standstill. I therefore invite you to convey to me the various elements that you have on the trainers of the Red Cross.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u267	Amendments Nos 294 and 295 by Mrs Caroline Janvier, rapporteur, are drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u268	I have before me three identical amendments, Nos 43, 65 and 332. Mr Thibault Bazin's amendment No. 43 is being defended. I call Mr Michel Castellani to support Amendment No. 65.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u269	The national floor rate for the assistance and support of home-based services must not be fixed, but must be updated annually.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u270	Amendment No 332 by Mrs Annie Vidal is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee on these identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u271	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u272	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u273	Favourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u274	The committee is relying on the wisdom of the House!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u275	Amendment No 213 by Mr François Ruffin is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u276	The rapporteur's amendment No 296 is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u277	I have before me two amendments, Nos 346 and 208, which can be discussed jointly. I call Mr Boris Vallaud to support Amendment No. 346.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u278	It aims to ensure that the additional costs associated with the introduction of a minimum rate for the personalized autonomy allowance (APA) by the CNSA are borne only by departments which diagnose the occupational risks incurred by the employee of the home help and accompaniment service (SAAD) at the time of the examination of the file. This diagnosis should help to reduce the rate of accidents at work, which is very high in the sector.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u279	Amendment No 208 by Mr François Ruffin is being defended. What is the committee's opinion on these amendments under joint discussion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u280	The mechanism of quality staffing includes quality of life at work. Unfavorable opinion on both amendments and on all those proposing to make the application of the national floor tariff for home support and home support services subject to certain criteria.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u281	Amendments Nos 209, 210, 211, 212 and 218 by Mr François Ruffin are being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u282	Amendment No 297 by Mrs Caroline Janvier, rapporteur, is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u283	The Government's amendment No. 380 is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u284	Amendment No 298 by Mrs Caroline Janvier, rapporteur, is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u285	Identical amendments No 147 of the Committee on Social Affairs and 347 of Mr Joël Aviragnet are being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u286	Amendments Nos 299, 309, 300, 301, 302 corrected, 303, 304, 305, 310, 311, 307 and 308 by Mrs Caroline Janvier, rapporteur, are drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u287	The committee's amendment No. 89 to delete Rule 30a(B) is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u288	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 152 to restore Rule 30a, which has been deleted by the Senate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u289	It is intended to restore Article 30a adopted at first reading by our Assembly on the initiative of Mrs Véronique Hammerer. This provision is intended to enable a professional card to be tested for home helpers.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u290	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor to support Amendment No. 199.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u291	It is intended to provide public EHPADs with the benefit of the experiment proposed in this article. In March 2018, MPs Monique Iborra and Caroline Fiat submitted their report on accommodation facilities for dependent seniors, the EHPADs – as I mentioned earlier. Since then, the situation of these institutions has been as scandalous and institutional abuse is a fact: a very small number of caregivers are responsible for several hundred residents, every person is allowed to do so only six minutes of toiletries on average per day, musculoskeletal disorders are the norm and patients and patients sometimes have to stay in their excrements for several hours. Families are concerned, and caregivers are at the end of their nerves; The elderly are unhappy and their end of life looks like a nightmare. In addition, it is the dependent elderly who were the first affected by covid-19: thousands of them died in EHPADs. At the same time, the rate of supervision of establishments in the Korian group, which is at the head of most private EHPADs throughout France and many others abroad, is among the lowest in France, while the cost of stay is among the highest. The institutional abuse of older persons in France is intolerable. Their well-being must be well ahead of the profits of multi-millionaire shareholders; It's a matter of dignity. That is why we propose to reserve to public EHPAD the benefit of the proposed experiment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u292	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u293	For this amendment as well as for the following, which propose to limit the scope of the Article 31 experiment to certain EHPADs, depending on their level of supervision or the type of establishment concerned, the opinion is unfavourable. Again, such a measure would have the effect of limiting the effects of the device we propose.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u294	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u295	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u296	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u297	You will have understood, I am sure, that we really want to develop public institutions and ensure that the recommendations made by our colleagues for more than three years are finally implemented by the Government. We want the necessary resources to be invested, rather than being diluted in an experiment that could benefit private institutions that do not respect the minimum of dignity to which residents are entitled, but also caregivers. That is the meaning of our amendments and we will continue to defend them until the end.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u298	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor to support Amendment No. 200.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u299	He said that only EHPADs "of which at least half of the places are entitled to social assistance" could benefit from the experiment proposed by the PLFSS. It is known that some EHPADs, mainly those that are public or voluntary, play the role of authorized places, while others, mainly private for-profit institutions, do not do so. We want experimentation to promote social assistance empowerment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u300	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor to support Amendment No. 216.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u301	It aims to require EHPADs participating in the experiment to comply with the minimum supervision rate of 0.6 caregivers per resident, which Monique Iborra and I proposed in our 2018 report. Such a measure has a cost: it was then estimated at EUR 8 billion. Two years of ISF – a solidarity tax on wealth – in 2018 and 2019 would have been enough to solve the problem, and we would no longer have to worry about it! It's really something we care about.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u302	Amendment No 313 by Mrs Caroline Janvier, rapporteur, is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u303	Amendment No 90 by the Committee on Social Affairs, which tends to delete Rule 31a A, is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u304	Amendment No 314 by Mrs Caroline Janvier, rapporteur, is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u305	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 148 and 59, as corrected. The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 148 of the Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u306	It aims at re-establishing a measure adopted by the Assembly at first reading.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u307	Mr Paul Christophe has the floor to support Amendment No. 59 as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u308	As I said in my opening speech, it is intended to re-establish a provision introduced by our colleague, Agnès Firmin Le Bodo, concerning the future role of the CNSA in auditing and evaluation of departmental services.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u309	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 149 and 362. The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 149 of the Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u310	It is intended to complement the recovery measure that has just been adopted.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u311	Amendment No 362 by Mrs Agnès Firmin Le Bodo is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u312	Amendments Nos 315 and 316 by Mrs Caroline Janvier, rapporteur, are drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u313	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 150 of the Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u314	It is intended to restore the wording adopted by the Assembly at first reading.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u315	The committee's amendment No 91, which is intended to delete Rule 32e A, is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u316	I have before me three identical amendments, Nos 383, 388 and 391. The Minister-in-Office has the floor to support Amendment No. 383.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u317	It aims to improve the daily allowances of the caregiver and of parental presence. It also extends to civil servants and members the possibility of renewing parental leave and the AJPP.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u318	I call Mr Paul Christophe to support Amendment No. 388.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u319	It aims to ensure that the AJPP and the AJPA are upgraded to the level of the SMIC, but it also contains certain proposals concerning the provisions of the Act of 15 November 2021 – adopted unanimously by the Senate on 4 November – aimed at improving the conditions of parental presence with a child whose pathology requires sustained support. Its adoption would allow for the confirmation of the doubling of parental leave and the associated daily allowance for the parents of seriously ill children, as well as the extension of the scheme to civil servants and the military.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u320	Amendment No 391 by Mrs Caroline Janvier, rapporteur, is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u321	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 151.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u322	It is intended to restore the wording adopted by the Assembly at first reading.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u323	Amendment No. 130 of the committee to restore Article 32h, deleted by the Senate, is forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u324	Amendments Nos 261 and 263 by the rapporteur-general are drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u325	Amendment No 157 of the committee is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u326	Amendments Nos 264, 265 and 266 by the rapporteur-general are drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u327	The committee's amendment No. 158, which is intended to delete the second sentence of paragraph 6, was rejected.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u328	Amendment No 267 by the rapporteur-general is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u329	Mr Jean-Pierre Door has the floor to support Amendment No. 124.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u330	Article 34 concerns medical devices. The review of the PLFSS raised the issue of rebates, rebates, and commercial benefits of all kinds that are granted to public and private institutions when they place orders for medical devices, whatever they may be – there are many. The amendment seeks to deduce these rebates from the benefits granted to health facilities. Indeed, we want to avoid introducing a double penalty: we do not dispute the validity of the discounts provided for in the article, but they should not be in addition to those already existing, because this could pose a problem for companies producing medical devices, such as small prostheses or infusion and intubation devices. I would point out that these are not CAC 40 companies but often French SMEs; Let's save them a double sentence!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u331	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u332	Request for withdrawal. Indeed, my colleague, your amendment seems to me to be satisfactory because Article 34 makes it clear that discounts are "calculated on the basis of the tax-free turnover charged to health care establishments". The financial advantages granted by laboratories to establishments are therefore effectively excluded from the turnover base used for the calculation of rebates.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u333	Amendment No 123 by Mr Jean-Pierre Door is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u334	Amendments Nos 269, 271 and 272 by the rapporteur-general are drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u335	The Commission's amendment No. 159, which seeks to re-establish the wording adopted by the National Assembly at first reading, is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u336	Amendment No. 131 of the committee, which is intended to delete a provision introduced by the Senate, is forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u337	The rapporteur-general has the floor to support Amendment No. 160 of the Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u338	It is intended to delete paragraph 4 of article 36, a provision introduced by the National Assembly and amended by the Senate, providing for a link between early access and direct access.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u339	Amendment No 273 by the rapporteur-general is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u340	The rapporteur-general has the floor to support Amendment No 161 of the Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u341	It is proposed to delete the provision in the Senate requiring the publication of the order providing for direct access within six weeks of the filing of the application.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u342	Amendments Nos 274, 275, 276 and 277 by the rapporteur-general are drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u343	Amendment No 202 by Mrs Caroline Fiat is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u344	Mr. Michel Lauzzana's amendment No. 56 to reinstate Rule 36 bis, which was deleted by the Senate, was the subject of a sub-amendment. I do not see any of the authors of the amendment...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u345	I'll take it back, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u346	Amendment No 56, which has been adopted by the committee, is being defended. The Minister-in-Office has the floor to support sub-amendment 387.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u347	I am in favour of re-establishing the article subject to the adoption of this sub-amendment, which makes it possible to adjust the deadline for the transmission of a report and to correct legislative references.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u348	Mrs Nicole Sanquer has the floor to support Amendment No. 28.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u349	Since the arrival of the first biosimilar medicine on the French market in 2006, the use of these biologic equivalents, on average 30% cheaper than their reference medicines, remains limited. While biosimilar penetration in the hospital is estimated at 69 per cent in 2020, this rate is only 23 per cent in the city, far from the 80 per cent target the Government intended to reach by 2022. Since the Court of Auditors considers that biosimilars would generate €680 million in savings, we propose that the list of biosimilars substitutable by pharmacists be identical to that of biosimilars substitutable by prescribers.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u350	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u351	Unfavorable opinion. This proposal is not consistent with the national recommendations of the National Agency for the Safety of Drugs and Health Products (ANSM), and it was rejected by the Senate. The prescribing physician has a wide appreciation of the pharmacist to adapt the treatment to the patient's situation. The approach adopted in the bill is more interesting, it is to establish the evolving list of biological drugs substitutable by the pharmacist, after consultation with professionals and patient associations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u352	Amendment No 125 by Mr Jean-Pierre Door is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u353	Mr Jean-Pierre Door has the floor to support Amendment No. 44.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u354	Mr. Thibault Bazin is also the author of the amendment. Article 37 allows for the substitution by the pharmacist of a biological medicinal product with its biosimilar, unless the prescriber has excluded this possibility. We believe that the patient must also be able to oppose this, which is why the amendment provides that a biosimilar medicine must not be substituted for another medicine without the latter's consent.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u355	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u356	As at first reading, I am not in favour of the legislation providing for such a framework, which would apply to all biological groups, without distinction. The substitution conditions must be defined according to the specificities of each biological group. As for the patient's consent, it will of course be required, your concern is satisfied in this regard. In the absence of a withdrawal, the opinion will be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u357	Mr Jean-Pierre Door has the floor to support Amendment No. 126.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u358	The substitution of a drug with a biosimilar is a delicate subject. As evidence, we will be running after this solution since it was passed in the Social Security Financing Act for 2014, and no decree has been issued since. We are only beginning to think about it more seriously than years later. Biosimilars should not substitute for biological drugs of origin for children. The few biosimilar medicines available to children concern extremely serious, infectious or cancerous diseases. The pharmacist must not be able to substitute a biosimilar for a medicine, this remains the right of the prescriber, often a hospital prescriber.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u359	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u360	We debated it in committee, it is not lawful to exclude certain therapeutics from the law. Everything will be set in connection with the representatives of professionals and patients, so that substitution can only be done under conditions agreed to by all. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u361	Amendment No 128 by Mr Jean-Pierre Door is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u362	Mrs Nicole Sanquer has the floor to support Amendment No. 27.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u363	We propose to re-establish a provision adopted at first reading, so that the Government will hand over to Parliament thorough preparatory work on the field of medical devices that may be affected by substitution by the pharmacist.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u364	I call Mr Dharréville to support Amendment No. 189.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u365	You know how much we are committed to ensuring that drug prices are correlated with production and research costs. The real cost must be better taken into account in setting the prices reimbursed by social security. This amendment aims to promote relocations in France and Europe in determining the price of medicinal products of major therapeutic interest. In the recent period, companies producing such drugs have put the key behind the door. We need to better support and recognize the production of these medicines in our territory, not just to consider the improvement of the medical service provided.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u366	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u367	Unfavorable opinion. Your amendment is largely satisfied with a measure adopted last year to oblige companies to make available to the Economic Committee for Health Products (CEPS) the amount of public research and development investment they have received and to publish it. This is section 79 of the Social Security Financing Act for 2021. The availability requirements of the products you wish to introduce exist for medicinal products of major therapeutic interest. Since 1 September, pharmaceutical laboratories have been required to establish a minimum safety stock, in accordance with a measure adopted in the Social Security Financing Act for 2020. As for your wish to take into account only the additional costs of relocation, it may prove counterproductive. How can we estimate these additional costs alone? In addition, your amendment focuses on drugs of major therapeutic interest, but shortages and supply tensions may affect all health products.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u368	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u369	With regard to public funding, I share your commitment to transparency. The Social Security Financing Act for 2021 allows for public investments to be made available to laboratories. The first statements will be made before January 31, 2022.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u370	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u371	The request for transparency must be met, and I hope that we will know more about it as a result of the statements just mentioned by the Deputy Minister, even if we need to look more closely at them. Having said that, the question is price. The fact-finding mission that I had the honour of chairing, whose rapporteurs were Audrey Dufeu and Jean-Louis Touraine, has updated rather perverse mechanisms leading to the relocation of the production of these medicines of major therapeutic interest by the major groups, while they could maintain it in our territory. All this must be taken into account in price formation, otherwise we ourselves organise social dumping. The rapporteur-general does not answer the problem that I raise, and we risk continuing in the logic of social dumping organised by the major groups and financed by social security.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u372	The rapporteur-general has the floor to support Amendments Nos 162 and 163 of the Committee, which can be presented in a consolidated format.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u373	It is a question of deleting certain provisions adopted by the Senate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u374	Which ones?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u375	I call Mrs Vidal to support Amendment No. 62.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u376	We want to give the possibility to lower the price of a drug if a company changes the location of a production site. For example, a company that relocates its production tool could see the price of the drug it produces lower.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u377	That's interesting!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u378	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u379	We discussed it in committee. I share your intention, similar to that pursued by Article 38: encouraging relocation and ensuring our security of supply. However, your amendment seems to me to be satisfactory in that, if the price is increased to take account of the place of production, it can logically be reduced when the latter changes and no longer guarantees security of supply. Request for withdrawal, failing which adverse notice is given.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u380	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u381	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u382	Mrs Vidal, do you withdraw the amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u383	I do not withdraw this amendment. Mr. Jean-Louis Touraine, who was the first signatory, did not consider him satisfied.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u384	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u385	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor to support Amendment No. 201.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u386	With regard to all these amendments on medicinal products, I would point out that at the time when Olivier Véran was rapporteur-general, we had defended a joint amendment on the transparency of the price of medicinal products, the implementing decree of which was published only a few weeks ago. It is a pity that he has been so quick to wish for transparency on medicines as rapporteur-general of the Committee on Social Affairs, and that he has eyes and is so blind once in the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u387	He's changed a lot!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u388	The rapporteur-general has the floor to support amendments Nos 164 and 165 of the Committee, which can be presented in a consolidated format.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u389	It is again a matter of re-establishing the text adopted by our Assembly at first reading and deleting provisions added by the Senate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u390	The committee's deletion amendment No. 81 is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u391	I call Mr Dharréville to support Amendment No. 190, which deletes Rule 40.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u392	As you know, this article plans to entrust orthoptists with visual care procedures that now require the intervention of ophthalmologists. In the discussions we had at first reading, some of the arguments put forward showed that this provision would be quite ineffective and presented some problems, including the risk of underdiagnosing eye diseases which could be detrimental to patients. We therefore remain opposed to it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u393	[[Smile]] You don't like article 40 much!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u394	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u395	I myself had expressed some doubts about article 40 as originally proposed by the Government. However, we have enriched, amended and improved it, both in the National Assembly and in the Senate. We have thus retained certain provisions voted by the upper house. With regard to the first part of the article, we have found a balance to reassure the actors and above all to offer guarantees in the field of public safety and health. On the other hand, it is important to retain the second measure provided for in the article, of which we are talking much less but which is very important, especially for children: the introduction of the "M'T Eyes" system. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u396	Amendment No 45 by Mr Thibault Bazin is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u397	Amendment No 113 by Mr Cyrille Isaac-Sibille is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u398	Amendments Nos 46, 47, 49 and 48 by Mr Thibault Bazin are being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u399	I have before me two amendments, Nos 87 and 127, to delete Rule 41a A. The rapporteur-general has the floor to support Amendment No. 87 of the Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u400	The Senate wanted to condition the agreement of doctors to a six-month exercise in the sub-dense zone. Such a measure could promote a deconcentrated exercise that would harm the patient. We have already discussed it here and we will probably be discussing it very soon when we consider a proposal for a law by the GDR Group on the subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u401	You won't have changed your mind until then!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u402	Moreover, I am still as surprised as the Communist Group proposes the establishment of a system that would promote inequalities in access to care for financial reasons...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u403	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u404	... but perhaps we will understand your intentions by listening to you and debating with you.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u405	What a bad faith!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u406	Beyond this argument, such a measure would constitute an attack on the liberal exercise and would undermine the establishment of young liberals in the city medicine sector. That is why I encourage you to vote for this amendment to delete Rule 41 bis A.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u407	At least with the GDR Group's proposal, doctors would settle instead of resigning!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u408	Mr Jean-Pierre Door, in support of Amendment No. 127, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u409	I have also tabled this amendment to delete the provision introduced by the Senate. By legislating to define the content of health professions, in particular that of doctors, there is indeed a double danger. First, if we accept the demand for pressure groups – and, of course, we are all concerned about the absence of general practitioners in certain territories – it is likely that this creates tension among all healthcare professionals. But we must avoid creating this kind of problem. Secondly, the regulatory path would be more than conventional, which would detriculate medical conventions that unite health professionals and health insurance funds. But we are conventionists. These agreements – the first of 1971 – are important because, with regard to the links between doctors and health insurance funds, they allow for regulation of fees. Some fees are capped, we know...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u410	Not really!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u411	There are, however, overtakings!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u412	Look, the rate for consulting a general practitioner is 25 euros, which is lower than that of a hairdresser. I can tell you that all doctors, whatever their situation, tell me that this rate is much lower than the usual fees of other European countries, which are usually between 35 and 40 euros. This is why we must first choose the conventional path. By means of regulations, the convention will be destroyed, so that young doctors who do not want to enter into selective agreements will settle where they want without being agreed, which will not prevent them from having a patient, since, unfortunately, we lack doctors.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u413	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u414	Wherever they go, they will find a chance to live by doing their job. The retention of this provision therefore favours the free-of-charge sector, unconventional doctors, which would be regrettable. Instead, young doctors need to be brought together around a table to negotiate with them. It is the URCAM, the regional unions of the health insurance funds, which are responsible for organizing these discussions, which are called the conventional negotiations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u415	What is the Government's view on these deletion amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u416	Favourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u417	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u418	I would like to react to everything that has been said. It is alleged that, if the scheme provided for in this article were adopted, doctors could blackmail themselves, whereas, as my colleague Obono pointed out earlier, they took the oath of Hippocrates. Such a speech, for me, it doesn't work anymore. [[Smile]] First of all, we all know that the agreement does not in any way prevent fees from being exceeded in our country. Secondly, you mentioned the risk of doctors settling in overdotted areas. There is a debate on this in our country. As Pierre Dharréville said very well, as far as doctors are concerned, there are very few overdoing areas outside this chamber. Seriously, the blackmail argument doesn't work anymore. I prefer to deal with frustrated doctors who work rather than caregivers who resign, all over the country, as is currently the case, to the point that one day we will not be able to care for the French. Solutions must therefore be found. But it is not by evoking blackmail that the problem will be solved. We know very well that the people who practice this profession have chosen it out of passion. Let us not forget, moreover, that we have met hundreds, not to say thousands, of medical students who wish to become salaried doctors – and they therefore leave the convention.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u419	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u420	Since we are debating selective agreements, I am taking the floor now, which will prevent me from doing so on the occasion of my forthcoming Amendment No 191, which deals with this subject. Mr rapporteur-general, I hope that we will have a fruitful debate on 2 December when we examine, within the framework of the parliamentary niche of my group, our proposal for a law which provides for a minimum of regulation concerning the installation of doctors. We have a responsibility for public health. However, contrary to what you say, with this bill, we intend to combat health inequalities by taking on our responsibilities. This bill is based on a modest measure, which I will not set out in detail here, but which seems to us to improve access to the care of some of our fellow citizens. That is what we are thinking about this debate, which, as you have noted, comes back regularly, because we know that measures different from those that exist today are necessary. We must therefore engage in debate within society and in this forum.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u421	Mr Boris Vallaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u422	I will agree with my colleague. For the past four years, the Socialist and related group has tried, on the occasion of almost all its parliamentary niches, to launch the debate on the regulation of the installation, the selective agreement, and, for example, the obligation for young doctors to exercise their profession, in the first years, for a short period, in areas where doctors are lacking. In the 1990s, the life expectancy gap between hyperurban and hyperrural was three months; It is now a year and three months. The situation is getting worse. In some departments, for example, there are no ophthalmologists. Unfortunately, the debate on these issues has been continuously banned. I regret this because I see that what might initially appear to be an orphan idea has been schooled on the benches of the House. There is little left to the majority not to consider making the necessary arrangements. We have tried everything: the incentives and accompanying measures of the installation or the solutions of collective installation of caregivers specialized in different disciplines. But we can't. We will have to wait at least ten years to see additional doctors arrive. [[Caroline Fiat applauds]] We could at least discuss a negotiated transitional measure. Unfortunately, these debates are prohibited. They do, however, concern French and French people. I am thinking not only of medical deserts, but also of emergency services which, at the moment, close – especially at night – one after another, because of the lack of doctors, because of the exhaustion of staff. At the last congress of mayors, several of them told us: "The Republic no longer passes through our house. »
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u423	The rapporteur-general has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u424	Mr. Vallaud wondered whether, after his group had tried for four years to have a provision adopted, we would answer that question. However, we have already responded – and I have just done so – and we will probably reply again on 2 December. For my part, I wonder why the socialist government refused to adopt such a measure from 2012 to 2017.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u425	Ask President Macron! Who was the general rapporteur of the PLFSS at that time?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u426	It was Olivier Véran!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u427	Ask the Minister of Solidarity and Health for his opinion!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u428	I have before me two amendments, No. 132 corrected and 283 corrected, to reinstate Rule 41 bis, deleted by the Senate. The president of the Committee on Social Affairs has the floor to support Amendment No. 132, which has been corrected by this committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u429	Article 41 bis, on health centres, was, to my surprise, deleted by the Senate. We have reintroduced it by a vote in committee, in a new reading. As you know, it's about putting health centres in a quality approach, a fundamental issue that has made many of you respond. This requires, in particular, the restoration of accreditation, which is necessary to ensure the health security of our fellow citizens in the face of the serious drifts observed in certain health centres, which must be described as deviant. The provisions provided for in this article will also lead to a reduction in the expenditure of health insurance – it is therefore far from being a rider – by strengthening the means of control, which will make it possible to fight more effectively against fraudulent practices such as overbilling. That is why we need to re-establish this article.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u430	Mr Jean-Pierre Door has the floor to support the identical amendment No. 283 as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u431	This is an important issue, on which the chairman of the committee had insisted as soon as the text was examined at first reading. We had discussed it at length. Everyone has their own experiences: you've been aware of particular cases, just as those of us who are health professionals have in mind examples that shock them. These practices concern the whole medical and paramedical world: we talk a lot about the dental and ophthalmological sectors, but, in multidisciplinary health centres, some professionals engage in real drifts, which we no longer know how to master. What is the solution currently available? It consists of making an appeal to the National Council of the Order of Physicians or the Attorney-General of the Republic. However, these procedures are long and sometimes difficult to initiate, to the extent that they produce results only in the medium, long or very long term. One day it was astonished to read in the press that a doctor stopped working after being convicted – but in the meantime, he continued to practice! As the chairman of the commission has just done, we therefore propose that the law should include mechanisms that will prevent a professional working in a health centre from continuing his activity if evidence of drift exists.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u432	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u433	Favourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u434	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u435	You know my commitment to health centres, which I believe are a fundamental element of any policy that seeks to combat health inequalities and medical deserts. We agree on one point, Madam President: practices of charlatanism must not undermine their image and lead to their portrayal as money boxes. We must protect health centres, defend them and, in my view, help them develop. One of the provisions adopted at first reading – in addition to the arrangements drawn up by the committee – seems to me to be a question, since I fear that it will have a counterproductive effect: the return of prior approval, which will affect all multi-purpose health centres, should not hinder the creation of health centres, which I think are absolutely necessary. I wonder, because there is nothing in the text that specifies the criteria on which the RHAs will base whether or not to allow the health centres to open, the time limits within which they will have to decide, etc. Some questions about the device and how it is built therefore remain. It is well known that RSAs and primary health insurance funds (CPAM) lack the means to carry out the checks. However, it is the resources allocated to investigations that need to be developed. While the mechanism referred to here concerns the establishment of new centres, the question arises in a broad sense, beyond health centres alone. I wanted to draw the attention of the National Assembly to this point, which may be subject to correction during the parliamentary shuttle, because the text, as it stands, seems to me to have a high risk of hindering the development of certain health centres, which are nevertheless necessary.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u436	Amendment No 278 by the rapporteur-general is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u437	Mr Jean-Pierre Door has the floor to support Amendment No. 51.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u438	It aims to draw the attention of parliamentarians to the abnormal billing practices observed in some health centres. Dentists and other health care professionals have been moved by cases, sometimes publicized, of deviant centres, which take advantage of their fee-paying third-party practices to overvalue the ratings of medical procedures performed, so that the cost charged for examination sessions is sometimes far higher than the actual cost. It would be sufficient to frame the practice to prevent such cases. We propose, by this amendment, that a summary of all the acts carried out and invoiced in paying third parties be transmitted to the patient, so that the patient can himself check that these acts have been carried out. In the event of an anomaly, the patient will be able to challenge the amount charged to the court – which now deals with disputes formerly handled by the Social Security Court (TASS). It is important to re-establish some discipline in this area.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u439	Mr Thibault Bazin's amendment No 52 is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u440	The rapporteur-general has the floor to support Amendment No. 166 of the Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u441	I propose, as the committee approved the principle last week, to re-establish the article adopted at first reading on the initiative of the running Republic Group and my colleague Stéphanie Rist. First of all, it is a question of re-establishing the scope of the experiment on direct access to masseur-kinesitherapists, initially adopted by the National Assembly. The Senate wanted to limit this area to a single region, which would not provide a comprehensive and sufficiently representative vision to assess at best the desirability of generalizing the system to the entire territory. As for the inclusion of an ultramarine department, it may be provided for by regulation. In fact, the Government has engaged in a public meeting in the Senate. The amendment then aims to go back to a simple decree, to speed up the deployment of the experiment. Finally, it provides that if the opinions of the HAS and the National Academy of Medicine have not been transmitted to the Government within three months of the notification of the draft decree, they will be deemed to have been given in order not to delay the implementation of this experiment, which is very much expected on the ground.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u442	The rapporteur-general has the floor to support Amendment No 167 of the Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u443	In the same way as in the previous article, I propose, in accordance with the committee's decision, to re-establish the arrangements for the experiment we had adopted on direct access to speech therapists.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u444	The rapporteur-general has the floor to support amendment No. 168 of the committee to re-establish Rule 41 septies, which has been deleted by the Senate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u445	I leave it to my colleague Stephanie Rist to defend him.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u446	Mrs Stéphanie Rist has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u447	The amendment is intended to restore the article adopted by the National Assembly at first reading, which provides for testing the provision of a guide to the proper use of radiological examinations in the digital space of doctors, in order to improve the quality of the prescriptions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u448	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u449	Wisdom.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u450	Anyway, we don't have radiologists anymore!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u451	Amendment No 133 of the committee is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u452	The Minister-in-Office has the floor to support Amendment No. 375 by the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u453	The Senate has introduced a provision allowing doctors in the maternal and child welfare services (PMI) and in national education to prescribe entry into a course of prevention of childhood obesity. We are in favour of this, of course, but this proposal called for an amendment: if school doctors or PMI services do play a role in identifying these situations and must be able to prescribe care, the general practitioner or paediatrician must remain at the centre of the journey.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u454	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u455	He is in favour of this amendment, which clarifies the provisions adopted by the Senate while retaining their spirit – our colleague Michèle Peyron here, who knows this question well, will not contradict me:...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u456	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u457	... the aim is to allow for a better integration of health professionals in IMP services and national education in the "Mission: Back to Your Path" scheme.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u458	Amendment No 385 corrected by the rapporteur-general is a coordination amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u459	Amendment No 340 by the rapporteur-general is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u460	The committee's amendment No. 82 to delete Rule 42a(B) is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u461	Mrs Chantal Jourdan has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u462	I would like to say a few words about this article introduced by the Government, which deals with the mechanism for reimbursement of psychological consultations as a liberal, a mechanism which, after experimentation, would be intended to be extended to the whole territory. As you know, this article has generated many reactions among psychologists, for several reasons. First, the device has been prepared in a rush and has several imperfections. I would first point out that, in order to address the mental health problems that have worsened as a result of the crisis, it would have been a good idea to double the reimbursement of significant job creation sessions in medical-psychological centres and public structures. Then the device, if necessary – the whole profession agrees – poses several problems. The first concerns the provisions concerning the address of the patient by the attending physician. I'll come back. A second point concerns the predetermination of the duration and number of sessions: the text introduces a very rigid protocol, consisting of eight thirty-minute sessions, which does not meet the reality of psychic complexity or the needs of patients. Again, the device was prepared too quickly. The third element is that the remuneration for the sessions is not at all commensurate with the work requested, which includes both attendance during the sessions and subsequent analysis of the situation. Finally, the wording of the paragraph on penalties for non-compliance by psychologists with their conventional commitments creates a harmful climate, which will not allow professionals to perform their work in healthy conditions. What conventional commitment are we talking about? Did we take enough time to define it? What will happen if a psychologist exceeds the 30 minutes allotted, for example? All these questions remain pending, even though it is obvious that a psychological accompaniment session is not limited to 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u463	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u464	At first glance, the majority's willingness to repay psychological consultations goes in the right direction: the objective is legitimate. At first glance: like me, you have been, I suppose, flooded with e-mails illustrating the limitations of such a device, as psychologists seem to have been little consulted. I would like to draw your attention to one point: I am about to commit a report which will result in a proposal for a law against medical desertification, which will be discussed in the Chamber on 2 December.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u465	We've already talked about it before you're here!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u466	Let me get back to it: as long as you don't solve the problem, you'll hear about it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u467	You had to be there!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u468	Six million of our citizens do not have access to a treating doctor – or under very difficult conditions. The obligation to go through a doctor to benefit from reimbursement of a psychologist's counselling sessions is therefore a double penalty...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u469	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u470	... for those who, in the territories concerned, are already far from care, to the point of being forced to forego it because of lack of proximity response. I really want to draw your attention to the fact that in these subdenses, in those territories where access to a treating physician is part of the combatant's journey, it should not lead to the non-reimbursement of these consultations. I would add, and you obviously know as well as I do, Madam Minister Delegate, ladies and gentlemen, that the more poor the territories are, the more rural the territories far from the Republic, the more important it is to blow up the lock that is the obligation to go through a doctor when it is impossible to find a doctor... More than 30 per cent of consultations, especially for children since the health crisis, related to the domestic violence that are our daily chosen lot, and I say it without stigmatizing.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u471	The rapporteur-general has the floor to support Amendment No. 169 of the Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u472	This amendment, adopted by the Commission on my initiative, deletes a provision added by the Senate which provided for the selection of psychologists by the Directors General of the regional health agencies, under the control of the Government. This selection is expected to take place shortly, following steps that we may discuss again during this debate, but in any case according to criteria defined with the representatives of the profession, relating to the diplomas, the experience and the course of the persons concerned. As it is a matter of defining a shared doctrine while being cautious in view of this mechanism as innovative as expected, an expertise will be carried out initially at national level, under the direct responsibility of the Ministry of Solidarity and Health and, according to the information available to me, in a second stage under that of the RSAs. So the Senate is probably going too fast in this case.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u473	I have two identical amendments before me, Nos 170 and 66. Amendment No 170 of the committee is being defended. I call Mr Michel Castellani to support Amendment No. 66.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u474	By this amendment, it is proposed to delete a provision erroneously introduced in the Senate, which provides that psychologists selected under the provisions of this article must be required to participate in the territorial mental health project.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u475	Mrs Chantal Jourdan has the floor to support Amendment No. 337.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u476	This amendment allows me to go back to the concept of address. In this respect, I fully endorse the remarks made by our colleague, Sébastien Jumel. In view of the problems of medical demography, there is no point in requiring a psychologist's visit to be prescribed by a doctor, especially since this considerably increases the workload of a psychologist. I would add that psychologists are specialists in psychological counselling and, as such, bring their expertise to medical and psychological centres, in a multidisciplinary context, to understand the psychological functioning of patients. This means that they must have complete autonomy in their therapeutic work, both upstream and downstream.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u477	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u478	Unfavorable notice because it seems to me satisfied. Paragraph 12 already provides for the specification by decree in the Council of State of the characteristics of the meetings and their number to be covered by compulsory health insurance schemes. In addition, I believe it is important to keep these sessions under the supervision of the attending physician, who remains the guarantor of the path of care, including mental health.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u479	Mr Jean-Pierre Door has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u480	It is indeed an important subject that is addressed. In 2004 the treating physician was defined as the first recourse and the pilot who could refer the patient to a specialist; Otherwise, there was no refund. Today, however, several specialties escape address, including gynaecologists and pediatricians. It should be considered whether it is possible to expand this possibility in territories where general practitioners are lacking and where many patients do not have treating physicians. In such circumstances facilities for other specialists such as psychologists could be negotiated under agreements between health professionals and health insurance funds.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u481	Amendment No 171 of the committee is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u482	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor to support Amendment No. 214.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u483	I expected a lot from this amendment, but when I saw what happened with the amendment on restraint earlier, I now have a little doubt... We understand the current urgency, but we propose that the reimbursement of sessions with a psychologist should be limited in duration, so long as we can work on a real plan for the future of psychiatry with medical-psychological centres and professionals, a plan that would meet the needs of this discipline. The device proposed by the PLFSS would no longer be appropriate. Let us give ourselves the means of our ambitions!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u484	Amendment No 83 of the committee, to delete Rule 42b(A), is being defended
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u485	I have before me a number of identical amendments, Nos 219, 192 and 225, aimed at restoring Article 42c. The rapporteur-general has the floor to support Amendment No. 219 of the Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u486	I propose that Mr Thierry Michels defend him.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u487	Mr Thierry Michels has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u488	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] We are committed to fighting obesity, mostly of course, but also on all benches. I would remind you that we overtaxed the sodas on the proposal of Olivier Véran, then rapporteur-general, with Agnes Buzyn being minister, implementing a road map against obesity and improving controls on the excessive use of bariatric surgery in France. But people with high obesity still have to take on insurmountable leftovers to meet their transportation costs. We had therefore tabled at first reading of the PLFSS an amendment allowing for better implementation in the context of an experiment, in accordance with Article 40 of the Constitution. It had been widely approved on all benches, but unfortunately deleted in the Senate. We are now proposing the restoration of this system so that our fellow citizens who need this support for autonomy can obtain it. In our mind, these experiments should obviously lead to a generalization of care.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u489	Identical Amendments Nos 192 by Mr Pierre Dharréville and 225 by Mr Thierry Michels are being defended. What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u490	The Government is relying on the wisdom of the Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u491	Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u492	Madam Deputy Minister, I am concerned about your wisdom. It has been several years since we tabled amendments within the framework of the PLFSS – I am thinking of my colleague Gérard Cherpion des Vosges – to finally move forward on the issue of bariatric transport because there is a heterogeneity in this matter in our country. It is well known that there is a need for appropriate arrangements and therefore for equitable land-use planning. You are giving a wise opinion, but the Regional Intervention Fund (RIF), the Senate has shown, could already partially fund experiments. It is still a matter of will, and, Madam Minister-in-Charge, I really hope that the adoption of these amendments will be a warning signal for the Government to address this issue by putting in place a voluntary action plan so that we can finally move forward.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u493	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 135 and 226, aimed at restoring Article 42d. The rapporteur-general proposed that Mrs Audrey Dufeu should support Amendment No 135 of the Committee on Social Affairs. You have the floor, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u494	This amendment by the committee, like my own, is intended to reintroduce an article voted at first reading and unfortunately deleted by the Senate. It calls for the drafting of a report to assess the treatment available to women with cancer with a view to rehabilitating their sexual development. It should be noted that such care is currently reimbursed by social security for men and not at all for women.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u495	Amendment No 226 by Mrs Audrey Dufeu was defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u496	I call Mr Jean-Pierre Door to support Amendment No. 115 to delete Rule 43.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u497	This article proposes to perpetuate the so-called "shoot rooms", which are intended for drug addicts who can benefit from drugs under medical cover, often outside the hospital environment as in the centre of Paris or Strasbourg. Ms. Touraine wanted to set up these centres, and we had opposed them because it meant ignoring all scientific considerations, ignoring the Academy of Medicine, ignoring the Academy of Pharmacy and the practice of health professionals in the vicinity of these centres. These are areas of lawlessness where vice is actually maintained, unfortunately the drama of addictions! At a time when the State is trying to sensitize young people to the problem of addictions, where it is engaged in the construction of reception and support centres for the reduction of risks for drug users (CAARUD) and centres for the care, support and prevention of addictions (CSAPA) – centres often run by municipalities, where people who are drug addicted with the support of psychologists, medical consultants and social mediators – encouraging shoot rooms is about maintaining what should be combated. When, at the top of the state, the minister of the interior says that he is against the decriminalization of drugs, but that at the same time we favour the consumption of them in the shoot rooms, is that not a little schizophrenic? We call for the deletion of this article.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u498	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u499	This is less about vice than about public health. On this point, the Senate was less conservative than the Republicans in the Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u500	It's always the case!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u501	Yes, but I'm an elder of the house!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u502	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u503	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u504	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u505	Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u506	In response to the rapporteur-general's very detailed argument, I would like to say that we do not measure the incentive effect that the decision to extend the testing of shoot rooms may have. This experiment is not so recent: many of you, who were in the socialist majority in 2016, voted for it – not you, rapporteur-general. Five years later, we can take stock, and it is partial and mixed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u507	Not at all!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u508	Let's put Strasbourg aside; But in Paris, experimentation produced very negative effects.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u509	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u510	There can therefore be no question of extending it, let alone opening other similar places. You could have extended the experiment by taking over the Strasbourg system: a medical place, a lot of precautions, etc. But that's not what you do. Comble of the new world, the consumer rooms will change their name to become "stop treatments addictions". Let's call a cat a cat: they're shoot rooms! Drug use is prohibited and I am not sure that further experimentation with a prohibited practice is a good idea. I hear the medical arguments, but we must also consider the other aspects of the problem. We can't encourage our young people to use drugs. This is a very bad message and we must vote against this article.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u511	We will try to complete the examination of the text in an extended session, so I call on everyone to discipline themselves. Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor – I was sure, Mrs Obono, that you would speak on this subject!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u512	In fact, I will be defending an amendment on this subject in a moment, but I could not allow our colleague to make ludicrous statements about the results of the only two low-risk consumer rooms in France, Strasbourg and Paris. Colleagues, I invite you to read the report of INSERM – National Institute of Health and Medical Research – which shows that the results of both experiments are positive. You have invoked science, Mr. Door; I therefore encourage you to read this document because all you have just said is false and contrary to the conclusions of the studies which have been carried out during the six years of experimentation. For our part, we believe that we must not simply prolong the experiment for a few years, but persevere and develop these rooms. Indeed, European examples show that this is a beneficial approach for public health.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u513	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor to support Amendment No 206 – unless we can consider that you have already spoken on the subject?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u514	I'll defend him. My previous comment was aimed at correcting the gross mistakes made by our colleagues in the Republicans Group with regard to the balance sheet of low-risk consumer rooms; We believe, like the collective of associations that inspire us, that we must strengthen the existing system by devoting its approach to global health and health pathways through the integration of new actors and actresses as well as the transformation of rooms into "health addictions" stops. Low-risk consumer rooms were launched in 2006 for six years, after years of demands from associations that work daily in contact with drug users. The sustainability of these devices, whose studies have shown the benefits, is highly expected. The positive effects of the opening of the first rooms in Paris, in the 10th arrondissement, and in Strasbourg were highlighted; In Paris, there are even associations of local residents who support this scheme because they have been convinced and have seen changes in their neighbourhoods. This does not mean that all the problems are solved, because the subject is complex, but the objective that had been set – reducing the risks, and even the problems in the neighbourhood – has been achieved. We think...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u515	Please conclude, Mrs. Obono.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u516	... that the article, as it stands, is insufficient: more rooms should be opened, following the example of some European cities, which nevertheless have fewer inhabitants, and make these places permanent.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u517	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u518	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u519	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u520	Disadvantaged too.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u521	Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u522	Very quickly, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u523	It's never quick!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u524	Mrs. Obono, don't be caricatural! The rooms have beneficial effects, but your amendment proposes to delete the word "care" at all levels. If these rooms are no longer used to treat people who are victims of addictions, where are we going? The summary statement of the amendment goes into total excess. If your project is to open multiple shoot rooms in Île-de-France, we vote against!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u525	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u526	I have to make a correction. You must not have read the entire amendment because we are talking about health, of which care is part. We do not erase this dimension; On the contrary, we want to make it more comprehensive. In addition, all experts recommend that these rooms be used for risk reduction.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u527	It is the use of drugs that must be reduced!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u528	It is a proven policy at European and national level, whose beneficial effects – for the people concerned, of course, but also for the community – are proven. Our proposal is therefore neither excessive nor caricatural; it is in the direction of better taking into account global health and the general environment. These mechanisms need to be adapted to the public, sustained and sufficiently open.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u529	Amendment No. 172 of the Committee, re-establishing the drafting of the National Assembly, is defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u530	I call Mrs Vidal to support Amendment No. 63 to delete the Rule.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u531	The amendment proposed by our colleague Jean-Louis Touraine aims to delete Article 43 bis, introduced in the Senate, which extends the scope of the tasks of the anti-addiction fund to all types of addictions. We are not opposed in principle to the extension of the Fund's tasks, but we would like to make sure that this extension will be accompanied by funding, which is not provided for in the article.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u532	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u533	Mr Touraine raises an important question. I am personally in favour of health insurance financing the fight against addictions other than those to psychoactive substances. Some of them – in committee, the addiction to screens and video games – can have a real impact on mental health. If the Deputy Minister can clarify the expansion of the Fund's tasks, which would reassure us, I would suggest that the amendment be withdrawn; Otherwise, we will judge according to his answer.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u534	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u535	The annual possibilities of the addiction fund amount to EUR 130 million. Between 2019 and 2021, almost €115 million per year was spent on combating addictions related to psychoactive substances, including tobacco and alcohol. These budgets were used to support projects at the local level, to increase marketing activities and to promote national projects. By 2022, the fund had the resources to continue to support national priorities and to strengthen communications operations with the general public, while gradually deploying innovative actions. The expansion of the scope of the fund will therefore not be at the expense of the financing of actions already undertaken. The Fund's strategic guidance board, which brings together a broad panel of representatives of the Ministry, operators and associations, is expected to decide in January 2022 on the modalities of integration and the priorities of this new field of action.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u536	Mrs. Annie Vidal has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u537	Thank you, Madam Deputy Minister, for the clarifications that reassure us.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u538	Amendment No 282 by the rapporteur-general is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u539	Identical amendments No. 173 of the Commission and 61 of Mrs Annie Chapelier, aimed at re-establishing the drafting of the National Assembly, are defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u540	Identical amendments No. 174 of the committee and 227 of Mrs Aurore Bergé, seeking to restore the article deleted by the Senate, are defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u541	The Commission's amendment No. 175, aimed at re-establishing the drafting of the National Assembly, was defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u542	I call Mr Michel Castellani to support Amendment No 85, as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u543	It aims to address the non-use of rights and benefits, and to ensure access to supplementary coverage for people who may have significant health needs.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u544	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u545	Unfavorable. The proposal is contradictory to the committee's amendment which we have just adopted.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u546	Amendment No 33 by the rapporteur-general, seeking to correct a material error, is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u547	Amendment No. 41 by Mrs Agnès Firmin Le Bodo, seeking to restore the article deleted by the Senate, is forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u548	The Commission's amendment No. 176, aimed at re-establishing the drafting of the National Assembly, was defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u549	Amendments Nos 280 and 279 by the rapporteur-general are drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u550	The rapporteur-general has the floor to support Amendment No 177 of the Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u551	It is an amendment to restore the wording adopted by the National Assembly at first reading.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u552	The Minister-in-Office has the floor to support Amendment No. 248.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u553	This is also a reinstatement amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u554	Amendment No 281 by the rapporteur-general is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u555	Identical amendments No. 136 of the committee and 220 of Mrs Michèle de Vaucouleurs, seeking to restore Rule 46 bis deleted by the Senate, are defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u556	The Senate has deleted rule 46 ter. Amendment No 137 by the Committee on Social Affairs, which seeks to restore it, is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u557	The Government's amendment No. 376 is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u558	I call Mr Paul Christophe, rapporteur for accidents at work and occupational diseases, to support Amendment No 154 of the Committee, which is the subject of two sub-amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u559	It aims to re-establish the provisions adopted at first reading in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u560	The Minister-in-Office has the floor to support sub-amendment No. 392.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u561	It provides precision to the device.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u562	The Government will therefore support Amendment No. 154 if its sub-amendment is adopted. Subamendment No 384 by Mr Adrien Quatennens is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u563	Amendment No. 155 of the Committee to reinstate Rule 50b, deleted by the Senate, is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u564	The rapporteur-general has the floor to support committee amendment No. 178.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u565	It is an amendment to restore the wording adopted at first reading in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u566	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 193 and 353. I call Mr Dharréville to support Amendment No. 193.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u567	It aims to remove an amendment made by the Senate which, under the guise of improving the cumulation of a disability pension with income, actually results in a potential restriction of the scheme.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u568	I call Mr Boris Vallaud to support Amendment No. 353.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u569	In addition, I would point out that the case law has so far ruled out replacement income in the assessment of the income taken into account in the calculation of the invalidity pension.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u570	What is the opinion of the committee on the identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u571	As you have indicated, the rules of cumulation applicable to disability pensions have been clarified by the Government in the Senate: the concept of "remuneration" has been replaced by that of "employment and replacement income", in particular to include unemployment benefits or daily allowances paid as a result of a resumption of activity. It seems to me that these developments are in the right direction. To the extent that a decree is being reviewed by the Council of State, I will let the Government answer you in more detail. Subject to the Government's opinion, I am against the amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u572	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u573	The draft decree on the cumulation of an invalidity pension and income is in fact being examined by the Council of State. It is planned to amend the cumulation rule so that any hour worked will result in a financial gain. Whatever the situation of the disabled person, he/she will therefore be able to accumulate his/her entire earnings up to the wage level prior to his/her disability and then retain 50% of his/her earnings above this threshold. I am therefore against the deletion of paragraph 2 of the article.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u574	The rapporteur-general has the floor to support Amendment No. 179 of the Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u575	The Senate has adopted a provision in the law setting out the amount of social security allocations for several agencies, funds and subsidized bodies, on the basis of the allocations granted to agencies in the law of finance. I take this opportunity to say that I am very committed to the evaluation of the Social Security Financing Act. I therefore propose that paragraphs 2 to 28 be deleted. I have taken note of the Senate's wish to revert to this in the context of the discussion of the proposal for an organic law on social security financing laws, which is under consideration by Parliament; We will therefore have the opportunity to discuss it again.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u576	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u577	Favourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u578	Mr Jean-Pierre Door has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u579	The rapporteur-general, I understand that you were not entirely against the Senate's approach, since you want better control of the subsidies granted by health insurance to the National Office for the Compensation of Medical Accidents, Iatrogenic Diseases and Nosocomial Infections (ONIAM) or to the FIR. The Senate wanted to better regulate all the subsidies granted by health insurance to different institutions. Rather than having to regularly look for budget lines in funding plans that are completely different from each other, the Senate has intended to catalogue them. Why should these provisions be deleted?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u580	The rapporteur-general has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u581	I am always in favour of Parliament having more information, but I am against the fact that we set the allocations for the various agencies in the LFSS.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u582	I have before me three identical amendments, Nos. 153, 181 and 245, to re-establish Rule 54 bis deleted by the Senate. The rapporteur-general has the floor to support Amendment No. 153 of the Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u583	This is an amendment to restore the mechanism initially defended by our colleague Cyrille Isaac-Sibille.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u584	Amendment No 181 by Mr Cyrille Isaac-Sibille is being defended. I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support Amendment No. 245.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u585	It's a very important element. Madam Deputy Minister, we have a lot of expectations about the RIF: the allocation keys need to be clearer and we need to be able to analyze the funding allocated to achieve the objectives. A genuine evaluation approach shared with Parliament must be encouraged. On the ground, we sometimes face the lack of response from the administration; the proposed review will allow for an annual dialogue.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u586	The Government's amendment No. 359 is a coordination amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u587	The Government's amendment No. 360 is a coordination amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u588	The rapporteur-general has the floor to support Amendment No. 180 of the Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u589	It aims to re-establish the drafting adopted by the National Assembly at first reading.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u590	The rapporteur, Mr Paul Christophe, has the floor to support Amendment No. 156, the Committee's second amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u591	It's a recovery amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u592	The Government's amendment No. 394 is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u593	I have before me four identical amendments, Nos 88, 92, 194 and 350, to delete Rule 58a. The rapporteur-general has the floor to support committee amendment No. 88.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u594	[[Smile on the benches of the LaREM group]] [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group. – Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] As I was able to point out during the general discussion, I propose to remove the pension reform introduced by the Senate majority, based on a parametric measure: a lag in the retirement age. This gives us an overview of the Republicans' presidential program, while they spend their time discussing immigration and running with the far right.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u595	Very good, this rapporteur-general!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u596	I call Mr Michel Castellani to support Amendment No. 92.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u597	We simply propose to delete this article introduced in the Senate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u598	I call Mr Dharréville to support Amendment No. 194.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u599	In reality, the majority agrees with the Republicans on the prospect of reform.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u600	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u601	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u602	In his last speech, the President of the Republic himself returned.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u603	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u604	[[Sébastien Jumel and Caroline Fiat applaud]] I am opposed to this desire to undermine the right to retirement. We oppose it today, and we will oppose it tomorrow.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u605	Mr Boris Vallaud has the floor to support Amendment No. 350.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u606	[[Caroline Fiat applauds]] I would add that we opposed it yesterday, that we oppose it today, and that we will oppose it again tomorrow.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u607	What is the Government's opinion on these identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u608	Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u609	Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u610	The floor is open to the defence. Mr General, you cannot caricature things in this way. You know very well in what context the Senate has proposed such a reform: the PLFSS presented is completely unbalanced, with a monstrous deficit. All measures are financed by debt, and hence by the taxes of tomorrow. As you know, pensioners are worried: with a major deficit in the retirement sector, their pensions are at risk. There's an emergency. You have completely stalemated a pension reform; the method was not good. You support a former Prime Minister who wants to go up to 67, you don't say that too much by taking the microphone, but it's still a real subject. Of course, pensions cannot be reformed by way of amendment, but we believe that reform will be necessary, especially in order to finance the measures that are in the right direction. The PLFSS contains some of these, including the upgrading of small pensions. In order not only to be white cheques, we need structural reform – I am sure Mr Maillard agrees – so as not to penalize future pensioners or current pensioners who are very worried about their purchasing power – this is the most important topic for the French, and I can tell you that we are concerned about it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u611	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u612	It would be a good idea for everyone to show a minimum of consistency. The rapporteur-general wishes to speak about the candidates for the right-wing presidential elections...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u613	No, he didn't say that!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u614	You're the one who throws the subject out, so let's go. I'm going to talk about candidate Macron, who still told us that he was also in favour of pension reform by 2022.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u615	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u616	Since you refer to the candidates for the nomination of the Republican Party, let's also talk about candidate Macron. Without talking about the position of the future right-wing candidates in the presidential election on immigration, I recall just one thing, colleagues of the Republic on the move: you were the first to lower the budget of the AME, the state medical aid. While everyone stays in their place.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u617	He didn't go down!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u618	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u619	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u620	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor to support Amendment No. 205.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u621	The aim of this appeal amendment is to denounce the scam of the fifth branch. So what is the point of having created a new branch of social security if it is to immediately desocialize its functioning by allocating a tax to it as a permanent source of financing? The CSG is a tax and is paid at 90% by employees. What is the value of this creation if it results in a stable budget? As it stands, this creation is a matter of pure communication, like the "great age" law that you have constantly pushed back to abandon it entirely. [[Mrs. Danièle Obono applauds]] This political operation is guilty: guilty of failing to take into account one of the essential challenges of our society, that of ageing and the right to "age well"; guilty because, by not acting, you are not yet going to deteriorate the current situation of the elderly and the EHPAD: the "institutional abuse" is in fact, I had already told Agnès Buzyn, before telling Olivier Véran, a governmental abuse; guilty because, not content with not acting, you decide to do even worse by including in the CNSA's objectives a willingness to rationalize costs. We offer a real public service of dependence, which means twisting the necks of your political operation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u622	I put to the vote the whole of Part Four of the Social Security Financing Bill for 2022.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u623	I put to the vote the whole bill on the financing of social security for 2022.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-22-O1067.u624	Next meeting, tomorrow, at 9 a.m.: Oral questions without debate. The meeting is adjourned.
