ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u1	The next item is the debate on the motion for a resolution by Mr Christophe Arend, Mr Christophe Castaner and others for a closer follow-up to the implementation of the Franco-German projects set up by the Treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle (No 3709).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u2	Mr Christophe Arend has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u3	On this day of commemoration of the Holocaust, we are submitting a motion for a resolution aimed at strengthening cooperation between France and Germany, thus Europe and lasting peace. On the occasion of the fifty-fifth anniversary of the Elysée Treaty on 22 January 2018, a working group had been set up to prepare a proposal for a Franco-German parliamentary agreement on our cooperation with the Bundestag. The work of this working group led to the adoption in this Chamber of a parliamentary agreement on 11 March 2019, followed by the constitutive meeting of the new Franco-German parliamentary assembly in Paris on 25 March 2019. At the same time, on 22 January 2019, our two countries met in Aix-la-Chapelle to sign a new treaty to strengthen their cooperation and Franco-German integration. These few elements of context remind us how young APFA – the Franco-German Parliamentary Assembly – is. However, this has not prevented her from being ambitious and she already has several successes to her credit. I would like to thank all the colleagues who, on all the benches, have been constantly involved in it, in addition to their work in the National Assembly. In summary, since its creation, the Franco-German Parliamentary Assembly has held five plenary meetings and two extraordinary meetings at the height of the health crisis, adopted six resolutions and installed five working groups. Since the beginning of the health crisis, it has consistently advocated: for the harmonisation of health rules in the European Union; in vision, for a European economic recovery plan, now Next Generation EU; so that our borders with Germany are not closed again. We were pleased to read in the Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung an article by Michaela Wiegel in which she wrote: "The fifty French and German deputies of the Franco-German Parliamentary Assembly have become the driving force of the Franco-German couple. » But we want to go even further! In this respect, the Treaty provides in the Annex for a complementary and dynamic list of so-called "priority" Franco-German projects. At present, there are 15 of them, which correspond to investments of the future, to ambitions with high European added value for future generations. The main areas of focus are the coordinated energy transition, the development of railway regions, artificial intelligence, breaking innovation and space. These priority projects also aim to strengthen exchanges between our two peoples: I am thinking in particular of the establishment of a common citizen fund. Moreover, the Treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle fully legitimizes our role in monitoring and evaluating the Franco-German policies implemented by the Government. To enable us to exercise our prerogatives in this area, it is absolutely essential that the Government report to Parliament. We hope that this will take the form of an annual report to assess the implementation of priority projects during the review of the finance bill and to inform Parliament of the actual budgetary resources allocated to each of them. It is therefore a tool for dialogue between Parliament and the Government as well as between our two countries. This report will also aim to give greater visibility to Franco-German cooperation, including with our fellow citizens, because they too must be better informed in order to become the real engine of European integration. Franco-German cooperation must be legible and transparent. The motion for a resolution, tabled by the majority group, The Republic on the move, was discussed. I am thinking in particular of the position of some colleagues on other benches, who see it as a lack of ambition. I want to tell them here that they're wrong. Our young parliamentary assembly has already come a long way since it was born, it is an extraordinary tool of parliamentary democracy and diplomacy. When our respective executives could legitimately have binary positions, it allows us to identify transnational orientations through political affinities. This is no longer the only national reason that prevails, but the desire to share and evolve common ambitions. This is a first victory in the service of our two countries and also of the European Union. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] This motion for a resolution is therefore not an act of distrust of the executive, nor an act of submission. Nor is it a partisan act, but it tends to strengthen this young institution, a result of the work of fifty of our colleagues and their thirty alternates, who have put their hearts to it and are counting on your support to further advance Franco-German cooperation. This resolution will mark an additional and necessary date in the maturation of this young institution. By adopting it, you will recognize the work already done by your colleagues and give the Franco-German Parliamentary Assembly even more legitimacy and efficiency to deepen its work. That is why I ask you to support her.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u4	Mr Patrick Hetzel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u5	With your parliamentary group, you are submitting to us, Mr Arend, a motion for a resolution which aims "to deepen the monitoring of the implementation of the Franco-German projects set up by the Treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle". In order to achieve this objective, you call on the Government to develop monitoring tools to ensure that Parliament and, of course, citizens are informed of the implementation of the Treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle, in particular of the Franco-German priority projects, as well as of the budgetary resources allocated to each of these projects. Let us be very clear: this objective is commendable. However, this motion for a resolution clearly poses two problems that deserve to be raised. First, everything in this text should be done automatically, naturally and normally. That this is not the case is the very illustration that your majority and the government that you support makes of communication and promises that ultimately never kept. To such an extent that you are obliged by this resolution to remind the Government of its basic obligations: to inform Parliament! That's the big deal. If this were not so serious on the merits, one could smile at it because it is enough to read it and listen to your arguments to find that it is a confession of failure of government policy in relation to Franco-German relations since 2017.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u6	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u7	The second problem is that this motion for a resolution has a singular lack of ambition. Of course, we urgently need a review by the Government of the concrete achievements of the Treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle, but what is really needed is an impetus for Franco-German cooperation. Now there is no momentum. [[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] Mr Arend, I know how much, personally, you are doing on this issue and you are not counting on your investment. Unfortunately, you're very alone. The Group of the European People's Party deeply regrets that the French Government, for the past three years, has not yet implemented anything concrete among the fifteen projects clearly mentioned in the Treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle. Here, too, we remember Emmanuel Macron's statements in Aix-la-Chapelle: you'll see what you're going to see. But, two years later, nothing, nothing.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, please!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u9	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] As you will understand, the Republican Group regrets that the Government is more ambitious than voluntary. For all these reasons, he can only abstain on this motion for a resolution which, I repeat, only reminds the Government of its minimal duty. We are the National Assembly; It would still be normal for him to respect Parliament a little. But alas, for some time now, this is no longer the case, which we collectively can only regret.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u10	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u11	All right! There was a lot of common sense in this speech!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u12	Mr Sylvain Waserman has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u13	My reading on what has happened in the last three years concerning Franco-German relations, my dear colleague from the Group of the European People's Party The Republicans are totally different from yours. It is clear that the Dem Group will strongly support this motion for a resolution. The Treaty of Aachen is a founding Treaty, since it was the first to set out strong ideas such as, for example, the harmonization of economic and social models, and not just a vague objective of convergence. This is already the first element of a triptych that, following your remarks, I would like to describe. Second element of the triptych: the Franco-German Parliamentary Assembly. I would like to point out that this was not at all an innovation decided by our Executives, but a parliamentary initiative led by a pre-figurative group of eighteen Members – nine French and nine Germans. They submitted the idea to the president and the bureau of our assembly, and the latter endorsed it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u14	That is not the subject of the motion for a resolution!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u15	The aim is first of all to establish a kind of joint control of the action of our governments on the application of the Treaty and also to create, in a logic of harmonisation between our two countries,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u16	The Rotary Club does better!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u17	... a tool for convergence between our national stock laws – think of working groups on the convergence of our business rights – and on the flow – so that European directives are transposed in a more harmonised way. The third element of the building is the cross-border committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u18	Ah! Separatism!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u19	It brings together the regulatory, legislative and local powers, both on the French and German sides, to finally take into account, after decades, each of the irritants of everyday life, these concrete problems in the lives of border citizens, and to provide the best answer, whether regulatory, legislative or organisational.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u20	It's separatism and nothing else!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u21	None of these three elements of the triptych existed until 2017. I would point out that the Franco-German Parliamentary Assembly is a democratic innovation, as is the cross-border committee. And these innovations lead to a coherent whole: at the top of the standards scale, the Treaty sets the framework for harmonisation, within which these new operational tools, which constitute the Parliamentary Assembly and the Cross-Border Committee, lie.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u22	That is not the subject of the motion for a resolution! Off the subject!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u23	The cross-border committee has its place: it makes it possible to point out the dissonances between the two rights that can be resolved either by legal harmonisation through the tools available to the Parliamentary Assembly or by concrete solutions that can be brought about. Contrary to what our colleague has just said, what has happened over the past three years in the area of Franco-German cooperation is absolutely important, and this is only the beginning of history! In 2019, we voted a resolution and then the Franco-German Parliamentary Assembly was created. Last December, the secretariat of the Franco-German Committee for Cross-Border Cooperation was established. Admittedly, it takes time, but sweeping all these elements with a back of the hand and saying that nothing happened seems to me to be a counter-truth that I wanted to correct.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u24	The government has done nothing!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u25	Ladies and gentlemen, we are listening to the speaker.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u26	We're listening to him! The proof is we're reacting!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u27	We listen to him wisely!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u28	I was personally involved in each of the three strands: by submitting to the Prime Minister a report on the cross-border part of the Treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle; participating in the pre-figurative working group led by Sabine Thillaye and Christophe Arend when it came to inventing the parliamentary assembly; by serving on the Committee on Cross-Border Cooperation. It's not just an Alsatian case.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u29	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u30	But no, and that's why I wanted to make it clear, Mr. Mélenchon. I already said it at the end of 2019 and I believe it deeply: the Franco-German engine is first and foremost a fantastic message of hope for the European Union as a whole.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u31	You're talking about a message!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u32	Still, the engine has to go in the right direction!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u33	[[Applause on the benches of the Dem, LaREM and Agir ens groups]] I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this week, in this House, we voted on the draft law authorizing the approval of the decision on the system of the European Union's own resources: whether it is a common budget, a recovery plan or a common debt, these are real giant steps for the European Union, and the Franco-German impetus is for something. It is with determination that we support all the major initiatives and progress made in the area of Franco-German cooperation since 2017.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u34	Your intentions are good but your means are bad!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u35	The floor is for Mrs Michèle Victory and for herself, Mr Mélenchon.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u36	At the heart of the European dynamic, Franco-German cooperation and friendship were strengthened by the Treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle of 22 January 2019. The 15 priority projects proposed in this framework are intended to achieve the objectives set out in the Treaty as instruments of cooperation between France and Germany. The evolving list of these projects must be accompanied by a necessary flexibility in order to take into account, with more reactivity, the issues that are going through our societies. The monitoring of these concrete projects, which should go beyond mere administrative control, could be improved by greater participation by the German and French parliaments. Cultural cooperation and youth exchanges are among the fundamental areas that mark the commitment of the French and Germans to the friendship of our two countries. In so far as they contribute much to the European dynamic, these projects deserve special attention. However, this joint attachment to the richness of the Franco-German relationship has no strength unless it takes with it, in a universalist and humanist spirit, all those who, across Europe, have the will to bring together beyond the differences and wounds inflicted by history. The strengthening of cultural cooperation between France and Germany is one of the main pillars of the Treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle, the signing of which marks, for both countries, the desire to inaugurate a new period of integration of their cultural institutes abroad. Thus, four integrated Franco-German cultural institutes will be established in Rio de Janeiro, Palermo, Erbil and Bishkek, while in the cities of Cordoba, Atlanta, Glasgow and Minsk, four French and German institutes will be co-located, following the example of Ramallah in the West Bank, where the French Institute and the Goethe Institute have been located under the same roof since 2000. This meeting, first carried out spontaneously, has become a close cooperation through which, in Ramallah, the two institutes are increasingly perceived as a common European cultural institute. This example shows how the cultural cooperation of our two countries is also an important pillar of European Union diplomacy. By strengthening cooperation between the two institutes, we will not only offer a more coordinated representation of our countries abroad, but we will also give a stronger voice to the whole of Europe. This spirit of intercultural exchange takes place and should be encouraged as soon as possible. That is why my second comment on this motion for a resolution concerns plans for exchanges between young French and young Germans. Exchanges between young people are at the heart of the Franco-German area of cooperation and represent a unique experience, hence the need to expand mobility programmes for young people. OFAJ – the Franco-German Office for Youth – occupies a central place in supporting around 8000 Franco-German exchanges a year. The aim must be to diversify these routes, through greater access to Franco-German exchanges, not only for young people not living in cross-border regions but also for those living in disadvantaged neighbourhoods and in rural areas. In order to develop the presence of OFAJ in schools in these territories, we need to encourage new partnerships between general and vocational lycées, which will be crucial to raise awareness among young people of the Franco-German dynamic. Again, and with greater vigour since Brexit and the hindrance that this has constituted for Erasmus exchanges, the close links between French and German youth seem to me to be intended to create new European spaces of discovery, to nourish a fabric of new and training human experiences. It is from this duo rooted in our recent common history that strategies can be built to combat all forms of xenophobia, racism, misinformation and intolerance. The meeting is always a source of possible reconciliation; In a world more fractured than ever, we have a duty to support all initiatives that make education the driving force of policies towards youth. Such initiatives can be complemented by an increase in university cooperation curricula in all fields and exchange partnerships between French-German apprentices and trainees. The integration of digital technology into these exchanges is fundamental: it has shown its many potential in this period of health crisis. As parliamentarians, it is essential that we study more closely the achievement of the objective of expanding mobility programmes. This means making them accessible to a greater number of young people, regardless of their background, level of education or university, or the professional milieu to which they belong. A fortiori, it seems important to develop these programmes for sports and cultural circles. In this way, we will help to increase the density and dynamics of Franco-German cooperation and make it more diverse in its origins. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Parliament, which is at the heart of our democratic societies, must encourage and support these concrete projects and work on tools for consultation and exchange, by voting on the means necessary for the development of initiatives. The Socialist and Related Group will support this text by hoping that it will make it possible to further refine the working method and thus contribute to broadening the sphere of Franco-German cooperation, which remains one of the key drivers of the European project.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u37	Mr Antoine Herth has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u38	Born in 1963, on the banks of the Rhine, of parents whose youth was marked with red iron by the horrors of the Second World War,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u39	You mean the invasion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u40	...I'm kind of a child of the Elysée Treaty. Over the past fifty-eight years, I have been able to measure in concrete terms the impact of this tense hand between France and Germany, whether in terms of openness to the neighbour, cultural enrichment or economic development. The peace between our two nations has been sealed by symbolic gestures at the highest level, but the citizens have retained more concrete projects. It is this happy alchemy that the Treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle, signed on 22 January 2019 between the French Republic and the Federal Republic of Germany, must be updated, an alchemy between solemn commitments signed in the shadow of the throne of Charlemagne and the joint construction of concrete achievements at the service of our two peoples. General de Gaulle did not say anything else in 1965, in his famous interview with Michel Droit on France's European foreign policy: "These are the countries that must be put together, and these are the countries that must be gradually accustomed to living together and to acting together. It is therefore important for Parliament to make its contribution by ensuring that the commitments of the Treaty of Aachen are monitored. It provides for cooperation in many areas, including economic policy, foreign and security policy, education and culture, research and technology, climate and environment. Thus, our two countries commit themselves to implementing a new treaty through fifteen priority projects, the follow-up of which is carried out by the Franco-German Council of Ministers. Among them is increased cooperation within the UN Security Council – a subject that has sometimes been sensitive between our two countries – in order to coordinate as much as possible the French and German positions. Other projects such as the conversion of the Fessenheim nuclear power plant site or the Colmar-Fribourg railway link, explicitly mentioned in the Treaty, concern the Alsatian territory. In this connection, I would point out that the law of 2 August 2019 on the competences of the European community of Alsace gives the latter competence in cross-border cooperation: public action will therefore have to integrate local actors in order to ensure the success of the projects. Finally, one of the key points of the Treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle was in my view – and I know that others share this opinion – the creation of a Franco-German parliamentary assembly, in which fifty elected representatives from each country sit and in which I have the honour to participate regularly as a member of the Bureau. I want to stress that this place of dialogue between the Bundestag and the National Assembly has been a valuable help in recent months to help coordinate national policies to combat the pandemic while constantly alerting the need to maintain economic exchanges and even more the movement of frontier workers. I can only encourage my forty-nine French colleagues to get involved in this interparliamentary work, as it is enriching to compare experiences, to compare working methods in the legislative field and even more so to look for points of convergence between our two countries, as is the case with foreign policy and military capabilities, particularly in the Sahel issue, or with regard to energy transition. As for those who question the weight of Parliament – some have done so at the moment – in the Fifth Republic, they will certainly find inspiration in observing the demanding work of our colleagues in Berlin. While Brexit reminded us of the extent to which the European Union could be the target of internal and external threats, a strong Franco-German axis is essential to strengthen Europe because without it we would not be able to face environmental and economic challenges and health and human challenges. [[Applause on the banks of the Action ens, LaREM and Dem groups]] The Group of the European People's Party will therefore vote in favour of the motion for a resolution. Personally, I will do so with all the more conviction that I want to take advantage of the young generations of opportunities similar to those offered to me.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u41	Mr Christophe Naegelen has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u42	All good friendships must be honest and involve saying things to each other. It seems necessary to take stock not only of the progress made but also of the way we still have to go in our relationship with our German neighbours. Our countries share many commonalities and a common will, but there is a need to restore balance and collaboration in our relations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u43	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u44	More than diplomatic acts, it is a daily bond that we must build with our German partner. We welcome, of course, the desire to ensure better follow-up of the Franco-German priority projects contained in the Treaty, but it should flow from the source.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u45	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u46	In collaboration with our German neighbours, priority projects concern the everyday lives of our fellow citizens: cross-border rail links, cultural projects or exchanges between students. In this regard, it is important to recall that our youth is one of the collateral victims of the current crisis because they cannot take advantage of what many of us have benefited from: exchanges, trips, exits, in short, life experiences. In addition to Rhin, universities, like all schools, are closed. We must make every effort to reopen universities and schools on both sides of the border, but also everywhere in Europe, in safe and reassuring conditions for students. Indeed, if governments want to save the most lives, they must not forget that the more we remain locked up, the more we risk ruining the lives of younger people. Thus, the enlargement of mobility programmes, as provided for in the Treaty's priority objectives, will become all the more important because, at the end of this crisis, we will have to give our young people all the resources to enable them to benefit from this particular and training period of life. This crisis could ultimately be an opportunity to put even more resources on the table to encourage the mobility of students and young people in training, to encourage them to discover Europe, its culture and its languages. I would therefore like to take advantage of our discussion to highlight an important point in the Franco-German relationship and in the European integration process. The British recently decided to leave the European adventure, taking with them their ultra-dominant language in diplomacy. If there are still English-speaking countries in the Union, I believe that we should take advantage of this opportunity to strengthen the primacy of French and German in European politics and its institutions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u47	I don't believe it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u48	French has a long history as a diplomatic language, from the 18th century royal courts to the Vienna treaties on public international law, not to mention the Olympic Games. German, for its part, has a more important place in science or economic circles...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u49	Under no circumstances will I speak German!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u50	...but the objective must remain the same: to show the particularity of Europe in the world, which is based on the culture of our continent.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u51	Nobody speaks German! Not even in Germany! We speak English!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u52	But it is precisely by developing the links between our peoples, by developing bilingualism in our countries – and, let us admit, the meetings of the Franco-German Parliamentary Assembly show that the Germans have a time in this field – that we will build a stronger and stronger union by making this effort. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] To return to the subject under discussion, the IDU and independent group naturally supports this motion for a resolution and I hope, Mr Secretary of State for European Affairs, that the Government will be able to hear the request of parliamentarians to be more involved. Europe will not be built without the territories and their representatives.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u53	Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u54	I will say a first word to Sylvain Waserman, whom I interrupted a lot during his speech, to tell him all my esteem, all my respect for his positions. He will admit, however, that we are separated at this moment, quite severely, I believe, on what he calls his wishes for Alsace and which I consider to be separatism. Perhaps it would be better if we both explained this to each other in order to avoid the misunderstandings that the brevity of a speech in the rostrum can sometimes create unnecessarily.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u55	I'd love to!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u56	I solemnly reiterate my opposition to the idea that a particular region of France, by virtue of an international treaty, may claim for itself the right to regulate and even a certain legislative power which would lead to decisions not applying in the rest of the territory. I am absolutely, totally hostile, and that is one of the reasons why I had already opposed the Treaty of Aachen. I want to show you why I feel that nothing has come to deny me. I thought that this treaty ridiculed our institutions by imagining that a foreign minister would participate in the Council of French Ministers. And when he created a Franco-German Parliamentary Assembly,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u57	Counterfeit! It was created by an interparliamentary agreement, not by the treaty!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u58	... composed of fifty parliamentarians from each of the two countries, I thought that an association law of 1901 would do better than this body that put on the pious vows like the pearls of a necklace and that has no ability to do anything else. I said that the treaty locked France in a face-to-face in Europe. But for me, this is certainly the most dangerous and useless thing! France does not have to lock itself in a face-to-face with Germany, on the contrary. In view of the evolution of the geography of Europe which, yesterday, made Germany a border country to the East, and which today makes it a kind of centre, the interest of the French is obviously to rebalance its relations with the other Member States, in particular by densifying those with the countries of the South. This would not be in opposition to the Franco-German agreement, but would counterbalance it. It's an absolute necessity. What a mistake to think that everything goes through the Franco-German couple and, more importantly, to include in a treaty that we claim to have common positions in Europe, that is to say that we would form a kind of Franco-German fraction insulate us from our natural allies in southern Europe! Moreover, this treaty is the apologies of NATO, the North Atlantic Treaty Organization. You, the majority, have once welcomed the particular context created by Trump's election, thanks to which we must finally move on to the idea of a sovereign European defence. I do not believe that either, since we are covered by nuclear deterrence and there is no question of sharing it with other countries. In the meantime, what you're saying has nothing to do with what's going on. Remember that Mrs Annegret Kramp-Karrenbauer, when she presided over the CDU, had delivered a statement at least hostile to the French by supporting, on the one hand, that the European Parliament should leave Strasbourg and, on the other hand, that our seat of France on the UN Security Council should return to the European - that is to say German - be. But this lady, who has never taken a word from what she has said, is now the Minister of Defence of the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany, and she has declared that the idea of a sovereign, independent European defence is an illusion. This is not a passerby who speaks on the street, but the German Minister of Defence. So, what do all these gesticulations mean about a common European sovereign defence that the Germans are already announcing to you that they do not want? Moreover, Mrs Merkel herself felt that it was a rich idea to renew cooperation in NATO. I come to the indivisibility of the nation. I will be part of all those who oppose that, under the pretext of the creation of cross-border regions, the unity and indivisibility of the Republic be undermined. No ethnic or even linguistic reason can justify this. The national community is the legal community, and the legal community presupposes the unity of the law: when there is no more unity of the law, there is no more unity of the nation. It's as simple as that, following a traditional Republican reasoning; Maybe we have to change it, but then you'll tell us how and why. As one of our colleagues sitting on another bench that has just spoken, I support that it is time to rebalance our relations with our partners in Europe and to end naivety. It is only true of strict equality with Germany. But that is not what is happening: it does not keep its word. Thus, in the space field, it does not reserve its fire to the Ariane rocket, common, but, on the contrary, develops its own launchers. She does not want to speak about the agreement we have reached on the tanks with Nexter, where she brought in a second German company and where she brings in a Spanish company which is in competition with the French. It does not keep a word about satellites: we had indeed shared the sectors, to some, the French, the optics, to others, the Germans, the radar; Well, the latter began to develop the optics and we had to compensate for the difference. No! No naivety in this type of relationship: we will not vote on your resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u59	Mr Bertrand Pancher has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u60	Of course, we need a strong Europe, which obviously requires the strengthening of the Franco-German couple. How can we imagine turning Europe's first economic power into a great political power if the two most important countries of the Union do not constantly strengthen their cooperation, do not agree on certain points and do not make parliaments work together? All this is obvious. While the United Kingdom has just, after several years of a long series, left the European Union, the role of the Franco-German couple is more central than ever. In this context, the Treaty of Aachen, which strengthens cooperation between our two countries, makes sense. The Libertés et Territoires Group strongly supported this cooperation treaty between France and Germany signed two years ago, just as it supported the motion for a resolution aimed at a swift and ambitious implementation of the Treaty. This treaty, fifty-six years after the Treaty of Elysée signed between General de Gaulle and Konrad Adenauer, sealing the reconciliation between France and Germany, confirms the bond of unwavering friendship between our two countries. Above all, it aims to move from words to deeds by translating this bond of friendship into concrete joint projects, even if the National Assembly obviously does not have the same political weight as the Bundestag. The Treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle nevertheless proposes fifteen projects which we find useful and relatively ambitious, and which, at the time, we welcomed the progress made in cross-border cooperation or in environmental matters. On the latter point, the Treaty addresses the climate issue, in particular through the proposal for a joint Franco-German plan on energy efficiency, renewable energy and infrastructure development; We consider this aspect particularly important for our common future. To our knowledge, while some projects have advanced, such as the common citizen fund, which accompanied 105 projects last year, others are much slower to implement: what about cross-border territory projects, border rail projects? What are the concrete advances in space, research and innovation, in the fight against global warming? These ambitious proposals should not be merely words with little effect. That is why we share the objective of this motion for a resolution. We believe that the follow-up of these projects with a view to broad information to Parliament and the citizens must be better ensured and we wish to be informed precisely and regularly of the progress and resources allocated to each of them. In particular, we stress the importance of the Franco-German Parliamentary Assembly. The Commission, which brings together fifty parliamentarians from each country, should give priority to the task of following up on the projects launched by the Treaty. This assembly, which met last Friday for its fifth regular session since its establishment, has been mobilized, among other things, as part of the joint management of the pandemic. We welcome the increasingly important role it is taking in the future, although the reconciliation of its sessions with health requirements makes matters somewhat difficult. Before concluding, we still want to express our astonishment at the fact that this text is tabled by the majority group.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u61	Even they're going through...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u62	What does this demonstrate of its ability to be heard by the Government to which it is directly attached?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u63	The majority group is trying to exist!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u64	It is up to the Government to implement these actions, to implement the Treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle as soon as possible and as best as possible. After a while, the time for resolutions is over, and comes the time for action. As I recalled, we have already supported the Treaty and co-signed Richard Ferrand's resolution calling for an ambitious implementation of the Treaty only a year ago. This makes a lot of calls in a short time, made in these places, to implement projects. We are now waiting for action. In any event, because we must, of course, launch these projects as quickly as possible and remind the Government of its commitments, we will vote for this text, because it is concrete projects that will strengthen the friendship between our two peoples, at a time when the nationalist, identityist and populist retreat threatens the ideal of European construction.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u65	Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u66	This motion for a resolution for a closer follow-up to the implementation of the Franco-German projects set up by the Treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle might seem interesting. "Whatever," a famous humorist would have said. In February 2019, Communist deputies refused to vote on the Treaty of Aachen, which did not meet the 1963 Treaty. Indeed, the 2019 Treaty calls for friendship between peoples less than for a market economy and the convergence of standards. This cannot be validated by us Communist Members, who place the values of friendship, cultural exchanges, sports, scientific and diplomatic values far higher than obsession with economic growth at all costs. The treaty of 2019 values a couple bound by a common cult of economic wealth and growth, while that of 1963 valued reconciliation and the interpenetration of French and German cultures. Not to mention that the 2019 Treaty aims to create a Franco-German economic integration sufficient for the governments of both countries to continue to impose their choices on the other 25 EU Member States, a fortiori since the departure of the United Kingdom. However, in addition to these political and economic projects that we reject, some, provided for in the 2019 Treaty, although very minimalist, are in the process of being created. This is the case of this Franco-German Parliamentary Assembly, which promotes common reflections, disseminates them and shares a common political culture. Although... The motion for a resolution proposes to strengthen the powers of the Franco-German Parliamentary Assembly by enabling it to ensure the proper implementation of the projects proposed by the Treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle. In the Committee on Foreign Affairs, we consider parliamentary diplomacy to be meaningful, and anything that goes in the direction of this diplomacy can be interesting. However, again, the 15 projects carried out by the 2019 Treaty are very uneven. Some are interesting: it will be positive to set up Franco-German cultural institutes or a common citizen fund. On the other hand, how, for example, will cooperation take place in the United Nations Security Council? How will the Franco-German parliamentary assembly verify its proper application, especially since, for diplomatic initiatives like this one, we know the pro-American inclination of the German state and its very strong dependence on NATO? Similarly, with regard to space or military cooperation, of which Jean-Luc Mélenchon has just spoken, the major problem concerns the difference in the power of parliaments. On arms exports, for example, French parliamentarians and German parliamentarians are not equal: how can we work together when we suffer from a complete opacity on our side while there is a genuine parliamentary consultation on the German side? How can we work together when the executive, in France, has wiped out every attempt to reform this issue with a back of hand? How will the Franco-German Parliamentary Assembly do so? With regard to France's and Germany's energy cooperation, how will it be translated when power generation units in France, such as the Havre thermal power plant, are closed down?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u67	And Gardanne's!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u68	... or that of Gardanne, in fact, even when greening projects were in progress there, and at the same time that the French are asked to reduce their electricity consumption when it is barely 0 degree? Are we moving towards an agreement that will allow France to facilitate its disorganized exit of coal by buying carbon-based electricity from Germany? In fact, can you tell me what "share assumptions about the evolution of the energy mix" means? In short, the devil often hides himself in detail and, although most of these cooperation proposals seem very useful and interesting for the rapprochement of our two nations, and even of our two peoples, including the numerous cross-border projects, the Communist Members will remain very vigilant about the details of their application. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] The Franco-German Parliamentary Assembly is an institution that we respect and find useful – I explained why – and we welcome the fact that it is responsible for monitoring these projects. Nevertheless, because of the reservations I have just made, the Communist Group will abstain.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u69	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u70	Nicknamed by some as the "Treaty of Small Europe in Europe", this bilateral treaty of cooperation and integration of Aix-la-Chapelle has caused a lot of ink to flow. While we can, of course, be glad to see that France and Germany have definitely turned the page of the fratricidal wars that opposed them in 1870, 14-18 and 39-45, we can nevertheless question the real scope of the resolution that you are asking us to vote on. To cut any bad trial, I prefer to say it very clearly and immediately, I am a European, a convinced European but a European of a Europe of sovereign countries, capable of weighing on the destinies of the world and, of course, absolutely benevolent towards Franco-German friendship, but who wouldn't be so in this House? This clarification being formulated, it has not escaped anyone that Europe encouraged by Emmanuel Macron is not really of the same kind. It is only necessary to read the preamble of the Treaty to realize this, since it speaks to us of genuine convergence "in favour of an open world market" and of States that "strengthen and deepen economic and monetary union". The most obvious subject of stress is finally the voluntary surrender of certain parts of our sovereignty. I am thinking in particular of the increased cooperation in the United Nations Security Council on the occasion of Germany's two-year mandate, in particular through the twinning of the two successive presidencies of our two countries. Beyond the fiction of a France and a Germany that would be one and speak with one voice, it also means putting our two countries on an equal footing. Do we have to call him back? France is a permanent member of the Security Council, unlike our neighbour from overseas; It's simply called history. To put it even more clearly, this is neither more nor less than a certain loss of France's foreign policy influence. I cannot help but remind you that while the Treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle was signed in January 2019, a few months later, the European project enthusiastically carried by the President of the Republic won less than 23% of the votes in the European elections; That is to say, if the French people are far from sharing this vision of Europe... This vote clearly meant a little less technocratic Europe and a little more national sovereignty. But no, nothing to do: two years after the signing of the Treaty and five days after the last meeting of the Franco-German Parliamentary Assembly, you continue your forced march by proposing that we adopt a resolution to strengthen the rapprochement between Macron and Merkel, while Europe arouses scepticism and distrust. The health crisis that we are going through, all European countries, is not likely to appease French citizens. What can be said when we learn that the two ministers of the interior of the time, Christophe Castaner and Horst Seehofer, committed themselves never again to closing the borders between France and Germany? We could smile, it would be charitable... We have the unfortunate impression that this joint assembly and the decisions that could be taken there have the favor of the President of the Republic, but to the detriment of whom? French institutions, of course! Only one example says a lot: for so-called priority projects, the French Parliament could be informed of their progress through annual reports. What a contempt! As you have understood, I firmly believe in Europe, but certainly not the one that is being built to the detriment of France. The creation of the Franco-German parliament in itself seems problematic because it allows parliamentarians from both countries to hold the French and German governments to account. I do not hide from you my unease, to say no more, at the idea that German parliamentarians may have such a prerogative, even though the French Parliament has so much difficulty in exercising these same powers vis-à-vis its own government, we live it here day after day. That is why I shall abstain from voting on this resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u71	The general discussion is closed. The Secretary of State for European Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u72	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] I will begin by welcoming the work of Christophe Arend, who recalled earlier that today we are commemorating the World Day dedicated to the victims of the Holocaust. We know that, in the territory of Europe, by our tears, massacres have occurred, horrors have been committed, and we must also have that sense of history that he recalled, I wanted to thank him for that. A few days ago, at the meeting of the Franco-German Parliamentary Assembly, in which you participated, we celebrated the fifty-eighth anniversary of the founding treaty of the Elysée. It was on 22 January, now the day of Franco-German friendship, in itself a symbol that must also make us reflect on our history. Two years ago, on 22 January, fifty-six years after the courageous gesture of General de Gaulle and Chancellor Adenauer, Chancellor Merkel and President Emmanuel Macron signed a new treaty, this treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle which echoes the treaty of Elysée and carries a vision of deep reconciliation...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u73	We were never angry! We've been invaded, it's not the same!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u74	This subject is still on the agenda, as we have seen during the debates. This treaty, I said, carries a vision of enhanced cooperation, but – no more than the Elysée Treaty itself, which I invite everyone to read again because it is an exemplary text by its conciseness and clarity – without opposing extremely simple and concrete projects, extremely daily, Mr Wasermann recalled, which, however, are by no means anecdotal. I will therefore go in the direction of the Government's inquiry: we need, I see no contradiction or vexation there, a strengthened follow-up, and the Government is ready to report regularly to you on the progress of these projects.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u75	How generous! That's the least I can do!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u76	One of them, as you have mentioned on several occasions, is the Franco-German Parliamentary Assembly, which, far from depriving the French Parliament of any prerogative, strengthens parliamentary diplomacy between France and Germany.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u77	We're not even!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u78	This project deserves to be mentioned at the top of the achievements of the Treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle. I do not believe, Mr Hetzel, that nothing has happened in the Franco-German relationship over the last three years...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u79	In three years, the government has done nothing!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u80	...and I don't think anyone can believe that, given the Treaty of Aachen or the European Recovery Plan. I am happy to give you a few examples, if the follow-up to the Treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle has escaped you. These are fifteen concrete projects, for example the strengthening of the Franco-German Office for Youth, created by General de Gaulle and Chancellor Adenauer, whose resources have been increased and the capacity for mobility and actions increased. These 15 concrete projects can be followed by the French Parliament, and I am replying to Mr Arend's motion for a resolution. The form of this follow-up should be discussed. A budget document annexed to the annual finance bill was mentioned. You know the friendly reticence sometimes found on the part of my colleagues in the Ministry of Finance, but I believe that an annual report would be a good idea to avoid any misunderstandings about the follow-up of projects.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u81	For a report, we need concrete!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u82	Let me give some examples among others of these advances, which I believe to be important. Tomorrow there will be a meeting of the Franco-German Forum for the Future, a place for reflection that has begun important work, between civil societies, between organisations like France strategy and its German counterpart, to make a number of concrete proposals. Many elected representatives also participate. The subject of borders, which is your concern, according to various positions on these benches, has been at the heart, and it is normal, of concrete discussions and projects following the Treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle. I will not list the bodies for pleasure, but the Committee on Cross-Border Cooperation, in which some of you are involved, made it possible last October – I had the opportunity to co-chair it for the first time – to avoid the imposition of specific controls on frontier workers. The work of the Franco-German Parliamentary Assembly, which echoed it, has made it possible to avoid, despite the health situation, disrupting the daily lives of our frontier workers, and not only with Germany; I recall that their total number reaches 350,000 and that, when they move, they do not travel, they work, for the most part, or they will do their shopping, they live, simply. This cross-border cooperation committee has made it possible to organise cooperation and sometimes solidarity in the reception of patients at the height of the health crisis in recent months? I don't think that's a minor achievement. There is also a whole series of cooperation on infrastructure. For the past two years, these have been joint additional studies with Germany, for example on the re-establishment of links between Colmar and Fribourg and the railway link between Strasbourg and Rhineland-Palatinate. It will take time, it is not a magic wand in our concrete relations, as we said yesterday, but these are projects that are moving forward and have already advanced in recent months. The scope of cultural and educational cooperation projects was also at the heart of the spirit of the Elysée Treaty. Nor are these projects anecdotal or secondary, and progress in this area is also important. As I said at the moment, we have strengthened the resources, including financial resources, of OFAJ: even during the health crisis, it has managed to organise mobilitys, in a digital way, unfortunately, but we have maintained this human and cultural link between France and Germany despite the health crisis. We even strengthened it with the establishment – it was a request by several parliamentarians at the time of the Treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle – of a common citizen's fund, a kind of OFAJ of support to associations, which has already selected and funded more than 100 projects, Mr Hetzel. This year, 200 additional projects will be supported. We'll be able to tell you about it here. Another example in the cultural and educational field, we are strengthening Franco-German cultural institutes abroad: an additional institute will open this year in Palermo and we are working on other projects, particularly in South America. I want to quote another project that is particularly close to my heart and on which, I recognise, we have not yet advanced enough: let us do it together! As a follow-up to Arte – which we celebrated 30 years at the end of 2020 and which is another exceptional achievement, unique in the world – it is a matter of strengthening the digital content platform of French and German public television channels, available in German and French, but also translated into different languages. This gives me the opportunity to answer your question on multilingualism, Mr Naegelen: the Treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle is also the framework within which we will strengthen access to languages. I could mention several of the projects that we launched together with the European Recovery Plan prepared by France and Germany last summer, in the continuity of the provisions of the Treaty of Aachen, but I will confine myself to recalling the Franco-German plan for hydrogen research. Among the various points that have been raised, notably by Mr Naegelen, I also want to go back to culture and education and recall that Jean-Michel Blanquer announced at the beginning of the week, after an exchange with Armin Laschet, a German plenipotentiary in charge of educational relations with France, that a second Franco-German high school would be opened in the coming months in Strasbourg – it was not a planned project under the Treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle, but, as you can see, we are going even further! The opening of this high school testifies to the link between our two countries. Let us also remember, if necessary, that it is our government, with the support of this majority, that has restored the balance sheets, which in particular promote the learning of German. Since the 2017 school year, the number of students learning this language has increased again every year. This is an important point, which is in line with the spirit of the Treaty of Aachen. Mr President Mélenchon, you have made a number of observations which are not directly related to this Treaty, but which relate to the Franco-German cooperation which we must defend. I do not personally believe in the rhetoric "Germany will pay": we have collectively paid it enough to know that it does not lead anywhere, except for the weakening and destruction of our country. The difficulties you raise must of course be taken into account. However, rather than adopting with our German neighbour, our first European partner, an attitude of rejection or detestation, it is better to try to overcome the blockages. Let us take the important example that you have raised: that of defence – I could just as well have chosen that of space. In the summer of 2017, at the first Franco-German summit that launched work on the Treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle, the President of the Republic decided to launch industrial cooperation projects between France and Germany. Germany cannot be blamed for not committing enough to foreign policy and for not assuming enough responsibility at international level, particularly in Mali and the Sahel, and for not trying, even if the task is difficult, to bring our defence industries closer together and to promote our industrial cooperation in this field. I note a contradiction between your position and that of Mr Lecoq.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u83	We're big enough to divide ourselves!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u84	I point it out for the sake of consistency! You criticise, and sometimes rightly so, German slowness. Nevertheless, we are moving the projects forward at every new stage and again recently at the Franco-German summit in Toulouse. However, it is a fact that projects are slowly moving forward, for a simple reason, which is a specificity of the German system, for which we have the greatest respect: the Bundestag validates each contract, including when it concerns small amounts.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u85	He has the power, unlike the National Assembly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u86	Such a system is quite exceptional in Europe and one could certainly debate its relevance, but this is not our subject. In any event, it is the main factor slowing down Franco-German industrial projects. However, let us point out a fundamental point: this is the first time that we have chosen industrial cooperation with Germany. We cannot build post-Brexit Europe by not investing together in defence. As for our cooperation in the space sector, it has encountered difficulties, but it is illusory, again, to believe that we will manage separately. We have industrial acquis which goes beyond the Franco-German dimension, but which attests to cooperation between our two countries in the space sector. The Arianespace group was squashed in Germany, but we put the train back on track. Fifteen days ago, Bruno Le Maire and his counterpart Peter Altmaier relaunched the process in order to prevent Germany from resorting to other launchers: it is now assumed that European satellites will be placed in orbit by European launchers, and I refer you to the joint declaration of the Franco-German summit in Toulouse. Therefore, the European preference for space launch, which had not been guaranteed so far, is now explicitly recognised. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups as well as on a few benches of the Agir ens group]] I could multiply the examples in this respect. In keeping with the spirit of Aix-la-Chapelle, we have the will to work together and to extend our cooperation to space and defence, rather than to put sticks in the wheels of each other, which would not be the most effective method of building Europe and strengthening our country, which is, in the end, our common objective.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u87	Mrs Sabine Thillaye, chairman of the Committee on European Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u88	I did not intend to speak, but I could not, as a French MP of French and German nationalities – I hope it does not bother too much in this chamber –,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u89	It doesn't bother anyone!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u90	...do not speak to me on a day like today. In the course of my life, I have been able to measure what has happened over the past seventy years. Mr Mélenchon, I cannot let you say that we are contemplating the Franco-German relationship with naivety. The Franco-German Parliamentary Assembly was created precisely to enable the German and French Members of Parliament to reach a height of view in their dialogue, apart from any naivety, by relying on a working method that preserves the interests of all. I therefore invite you, together with your group, to participate fully in the work of this House, as I invite all those who wish to join here. It is only by encountering the other that one can learn who he is and understand, for example, what the notions of central state and federation cover, in order to move towards a form of complementarity. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem and LaREM groups]] I cannot let you say either, Mr Mélenchon, that no account is taken of our partners from the South of Europe. In particular, the Assembly's Committee on European Affairs set up the Montecitorio Group, a completely new format for interparliamentary cooperation between France, Germany and Italy, and also reproduces this format with our Polish friends. The Franco-German Parliamentary Assembly is a kind of parliamentary experimental field that allows us to open up more widely to Europe while defending our respective interests. I believe that this is also the goal of the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u91	I put to the vote the single article in the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u92	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u93	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u94	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the bill by Mrs Laëtitia Romeiro Dias, Mr Loïc Dombreval, Mr Dimitri Houbron and others to strengthen the fight against animal abuse (No 3661 corrected, 3791).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u95	Last night, the House began its examination of the articles, concluding with Amendment No 95 to Article 3.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u96	I call Mr Guillaume Chiche to support Amendment No. 95.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u97	It aims to create a threshold beyond which a municipality will not be able to discharge its obligation to have a refuge or impound in its territory, even if it is part of an EPCI – a public institution for inter-municipal cooperation. Thus, since a municipality has more than 40,000 inhabitants, it will necessarily have to have an impound or a refuge, in addition to the one foreseen for the EPCI to which it belongs, if any.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u98	Mr Loïc Dombreval, rapporteur-general on behalf of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Rapporteur on Chapter I, has the floor to give the Committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u99	Mr Chiche, the discussions we had yesterday indicate that it is necessary to allow the communes the freedom to organise themselves with regard to the accommodation of wandering or suffering animals. Let the municipalities and the EPCI decide on the most appropriate structure; That is what we decided yesterday by adopting an amendment which I think is very important. Coercing them by setting thresholds could unnecessarily complicate the system. The opinion is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u100	The Minister for Agriculture and Food has the floor to give the Government's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u101	I will agree with the rapporteur-general. Our debates last night gave a fine example of co-construction of the law, by the adoption of an amendment by the Republicans Group, which made it possible to complete the text in order to solve a problem that we had identified. It can also be finalized during the shuttle. Thus, in the future, such a decision can be taken either at the communal level, at the intercommunal level or with another local authority, by agreement. In doing so, I believe that we are meeting the expectations of our local elected officials and our fellow citizens. The opinion is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u102	Mr Guillaume Chiche has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u103	The solution found yesterday by an amended amendment was to respond to a specific situation concerning intercommunalities composed of small rural communes, so as not to increase their organisational, administrative and financial obligations. This amendment, on the other hand, concerns municipalities with more than 40,000 inhabitants. For a commune of this size, organising the reception of stray animals does not a priori pose major operational problems. Therefore, I maintain it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u104	I call Mr Philippe Meyer to support Amendment No. 72.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u105	Filed by our colleague Stéphane Viry, it is intended to supplement paragraph 7 of Article 3 by requiring that the certificate of knowledge provided for in Article L. 214-1 of the Rural and Maritime Code be verified before an animal is returned. This will ensure the legitimacy of the applicant.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u106	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u107	It is unfavorable, for the reasons mentioned yesterday about the certificate of knowledge. It may be assumed that this document can be requested on multiple occasions, but it seems to me complicated to make it an obligation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u108	I call Mr Philippe Meyer to support Amendment No. 71.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u109	It is also intended to supplement paragraph 7 by making the return of an animal conditional on the "signature of a document" and "a reminder by the person responsible for the impoundment or refuge of the obligations of the master to his animal". It seems to me important to clarify this in order to clarify this part of the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u110	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u111	The certificate of knowledge will be difficult to set up, at least at the beginning. If an additional document is required to prove the owner's legitimacy, the device will become too complicated. I therefore ask you to withdraw your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u112	The rapporteur-general has the floor to support Amendment No. 491.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u113	The aim is to allow screening officers to return the animals directly to their owners. This would allow animals to avoid the stress of impounded captivity, reduce the health risks associated with animal groups, and simplify the procedure for owners. This would allow them to recover their animals directly, faster and without paying impoundment fees. That seems to me to be a proposal of common sense. This amendment contains a pledge to compensate for the loss of revenue for local and regional authorities.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u114	Mr Eric Diard has the floor to support Amendment No. 108.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u115	Domestic or assimilated animals should not remain in impoundment for too long. Ethologists describe the suffering caused by confinement and its consequences. Moreover, as the number of abandonments is increasing, the impound must be able to dispose of its boxes quickly, without a lethal solution being considered. Specific provisions should therefore be laid down to enhance the effectiveness of the amended Article L. 211-14 of the Rural and Maritime Code. The aim of the amendment is to make animal owners react more quickly and to find a lasting solution for unclaimed animals. It would, of course, contribute to the prevention of abandonment. In addition, animals released quickly from impoundment, with less risk of social behaviour, could be more easily proposed for adoption. The aim is therefore to push the owners out of their torpor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u116	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u117	Article L. 211-25 of the Rural and Maritime Code already provides that the manager may transfer the animals free of charge to foundations or animal protection associations with a refuge; They alone have the power to propose animals for adoption to a new owner. You therefore propose a device that already exists; It is also a good device and I thank you for reminding you of its existence. On the other hand, I would remind you that euthanasia of a pet – and more generally of any animal – can only be practised after the advice of a veterinarian. I call for the amendment to be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u118	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u119	Same opinion, for the same reasons.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u120	Mr Eric Diard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u121	I can hear your arguments, Mr rapporteur-general, but we wanted to shorten the deadlines. Our amendment proposes that "after the failure to pay the costs by registered letter with acknowledgement of receipt within 72 hours of receipt of this unanswered letter", the animal becomes the "ownership of the animal protection association or shelter" to which it has been handed over. Is the current operation this one?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u122	It's an acceleration!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u123	The rapporteur-general has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u124	I can see the problem you're referring to. An amendment which will be considered at a later stage proposes the introduction of a guard period increased by the impoundment from eight to fifteen days, which will enable owners to find their animals more easily.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u125	It's not the same problem!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u126	Mr Eric Diard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u127	The amendment you are talking about is very interesting, but it does not solve the problem that I raise. I wish to speed up the reaction of the owners who sometimes hinder the proper functioning of the impoundments by their silence. Since your amendment is not entirely of the same nature, I am maintaining my own.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u128	I call Mr Bruno Bilde to support Amendment No. 375.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u129	If one in two French households owns a pet and if more and more of our compatriots are interested and passionate about animal welfare, our country is, unfortunately, also Europe's sad champion of abandonment. The figures, which bear witness to a sordid reality and deep contempt for animal existence, are both revolting and shocking. Every year in France, 200,000 pets are abandoned, including 100,000 dogs and cats. Faced with the nonsense, the shame and even the barbarity that characterizes those who regard the animal as a vulgar object of consumption, I would like to salute the men and women invested in all the shelters. The remarkable action of these volunteers and professionals helps to help the best friends of man. With regard to the identification of animals collected by shelters and impoundments, I propose to include in the proposed legislation that managers should extend their search to the holder and not only to the owner of the animal to be identified. In fact, an animal may be entrusted to a third party who is responsible for taking care of it without having ownership of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u130	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u131	I can't quite see how this could work. The distinction you make between owner and holder does not seem relevant to me. Indeed, in the vast majority of cases, the owner's contact details are on the animal identification chip and the owner is almost systematically the holder, except perhaps in the specific case of horses. I therefore do not see the value of your amendment. I believe that we must rely primarily on the identification of the animal and strengthen the measures to ensure that the identification chip is updated on a regular basis – on this point, veterinarians have an important role to play. I stress the importance of this update. The opinion will be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u132	The identical amendments No 129 of the rapporteur-general and Mr Bastien Lachaud's 179 were defended. What is the committee's opinion on these two amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u133	Favourable!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u134	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u135	By these identical amendments, the rapporteur-general and Mr Lachaud propose to extend the period of detention in impoundment from eight to fifteen days. In substance, I find this proposal very interesting, and we discussed it last night. I will, however, rely on the wisdom of your assembly because it would involve additional obligations, particularly for the communes.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u136	Mr Fabien Di Filippo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u137	We were waiting today for answers to the questions that we had asked in committee about the consequences of various measures – castration of stray cats and the lengthening of the deadlines for collecting animals in impoundment – which will create additional burdens for our communes, at a time when they are suffering the effects of the crisis while you have already reduced their room for manoeuvre, in particular by abolishing the housing tax. Mr Minister, Mr General, can you give us answers to all these questions? Will our municipalities have the means to meet these new obligations or will it still be a transfer of expenses not offset by revenue? The minister's wisdom suggests that he did not come with the checkbook. It is perhaps the rapporteur-general who will have to answer these questions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u138	Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u139	Some of our amendments were declared inadmissible on the grounds that they created additional burdens for a particular public structure. In the present case, is there an impact study concerning the doubling of the collection time for dogs and cats – since the texts mention only them – in impoundment?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u140	The rapporteur-general has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u141	I understand your concern about local and regional authorities. Yesterday, we adopted an amendment by your group, Mr Larrivé, to place the device at the level of the EPCI. We will find solutions, knowing that mayors have a lot of problems with cats and dogs, and that all these measures have a cost. It should be noted that this bill is aimed at combating animal abuse. Currently, an animal can be euthanized because its owner suddenly realizes that he hasn't seen it in five days, without thinking that he might be in a pound. After nine days, he realizes he's been snatched. This is not a good thing, especially since this deadline is no longer appropriate. Do you know where this eight-day guarding period for an animal comes from? It was set at a time when France feared rabies: since the incubation period for this disease was eight days, this period was imposed to protect itself from this risk. There's no rabies in France anymore, but we kept that delay. As for the cost of impoundments for the municipalities, it varies from 50-60 cents per capita per year to 1.20 euro, 1.30 euro, or even 1.50 euro per capita per year, without anyone realizing it, not even the mayors who, every year, put in the pot without knowing exactly what the impoundments are doing in their place. There is a real question here.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u142	That's not a question!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u143	We have to ask ourselves about these eight days and about the money currently spent by these impoundments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u144	Mr Pierre-Henri Dumont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u145	Mr President, you do not answer the question raised by Mr Di Filippo. We all agree, the delay of a week is too short: it often takes two or three days before we realize that we have lost our cat and then we need time to look for it. However, the proposed measure induces two types of new loads: feed animals longer; additional places must also be created to accommodate them. We all want to prevent animals from being euthanized before their owners find them, but the proposed measure has consequences that you absolutely do not address. Mr rapporteur-general, Mr Minister, we are waiting for an answer to the following question: how will you compensate for the additional cost to local and regional authorities – common and intercommunal?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u146	Mr Bastien Lachaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u147	I think everyone in this House is convinced of the usefulness of this amendment. That is why our group decided to resume the excellent amendment by the three rapporteurs, which unfortunately was not adopted in committee. The question of funding arises. The minister, who is going to speak, told us yesterday that the Government and its majority had financed hundreds of millions of euros for animal welfare and the fight against animal abuse. According to the rapporteur-general, the cost of this amendment would not exceed a few million euros. Perhaps you could take the checkbook out today and give a favourable opinion, which would reassure our friends of the Republicans group.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u148	Mr Julien Aubert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u149	Since the idea is to avoid animal euthanasia, the philosophy of the amendment does not bother me: we sometimes have to favour non-budgetary logics. Perhaps it would have been necessary, however, to formulate the amendment more precisely on two points. First of all, some periods of the year when people are on leave or on the move may have to be taken into account, so it may take more time to mobilize in the event of the disappearance of a pet. It should also be noted that cats, for example, sometimes tend to leave the house for 48 hours. [[Laughs on many benches]] Then, to answer your financial question, you may have to tax, or at least charge more for the owners who react after a week. In the period of eight to fifteen days, it would seem to them that if they want their child back
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u150	Your children will enjoy it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u151	The lapsus testifies to the attachment I can have to animals, and I'm sure the Daily show will make it its honey tonight. The bill would be higher for those who recovered an animal that remained in the impoundment for more than a week, in order to neutralize the cost to the community.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u152	Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u153	The rapporteur-general is fortunate that we are not going to follow your argument on rabies: without this disease, our predecessors may have set the deadline at only four days. From this point of view, the risk of rabies can be considered a kind of chance. How can the deadline be increased to 15 days? We all agree that we need to give time...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u154	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u155	...for every euthanized animal is a failure for society: this means that we have not been able to find its owner, a person certainly in great pain for having lost his cat or dog – since this is only about these two animals. While we are talking about animal abuse, this extension of the deadline raises questions about the likely doubling of the number of animals present in an impound. How can we ensure that these places will have the means to double their capacities with respect for the animal? If we do not do so, we risk achieving the opposite of the goal of preserving the animal's well-being, because a simple calculation leads us to envisage that twice as many animals could be piled in the same impoundment at the same time.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u156	The rapporteur-general has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u157	While some impoundments are municipal authorities, most of them operate by public service delegation. Nothing prevents the municipality from amending the contract, and even from revising the tariffs downwards. Euthanasia at the end of eight days allows the impoundments to be emptied and their costs to be reduced, knowing that the deadline was set on the basis of a scientific argument which is no longer valid in France. It's up to you.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u158	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u159	I agree with both the rapporteur-general's argument and the wish for an exit from the top by our colleague, Mr Aubert – both of them seem to me not to be contradictory. Personally, I will vote in favour of this amendment, but I hope that the parliamentary shuttle can find a solution so that the increase in the cost can be digested intelligently.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u160	Mr Philippe Michel-Kleisbauer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u161	I agree with our colleague Loïc Dombreval: communities can very well revise their price grid. Euthanasia also has a cost, that of injection and rendering. Our colleague Aubert gave the solution by proposing to charge the owners of the animals, as well as the motorists pay to get their car out of the impoundment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u162	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u163	The question of funding is very important for this measure and, without preempting debate, it will be even more important when we address the amendments that require municipalities to perform sterilizations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u164	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u165	For some of them, it can be very expensive!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u166	It's extremely complicated!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u167	It is a complex subject, on which I will make three observations, stating that the Government can act in some cases, but not in others. First of all, as the rapporteur-general rightly pointed out, it is the communes or intercommunalities that have control over the tariffs charged by impounders, whether they operate on a direct or delegated basis. There is therefore a first element in which their sovereign choice is exercised. Secondly, we are not going to decide here on the appropriations for the overall operating allocation – DGF – which are adopted during the budgetary debates in Parliament. You will therefore adopt measures on sterilization or impoundments, the funding of which will depend on funds that you will discuss at the end of the year about DGF. That is why I am relying on the work of the House.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u168	Ask Jacqueline Gurault!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u169	Finally, I come to an element on which I can intervene and which allows me to reply to Mr Lachaud: an envelope of EUR 20 million has been provided under the recovery plan, which will be used to finance shelters – not impoundments – and sterilization campaigns. As I will never tell of carabistyles, I indicate that this envelope will be granted for a given period of time, the two years of the recovery plan. It will not be able to cover all the expenses associated with the new obligations that would be created by law with regard to longer periods of custody or compulsory sterilization by the communes, these expenses under the DGF, and hence the financial laws. I wanted to give you these elements in order to clarify the debate in full transparency.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u170	Mrs Samantha Cazebonne has the floor to support Amendment No 229, which is the subject of sub-amendments Nos 497 and 496 by Mr Loïc Dombreval.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u171	In order for the fight against abandonment to be truly effective, it seems important that entry and exit registers, health registers and health regulations, which are essential elements of the life of a domestic animal-friendly structure, be accessible to all. This precondition is essential to assess the situation and provide solutions. Currently, without this tool, it is impossible to estimate exactly the number of animals abandoned in France every year. However, this assessment is necessary in order to define an effective policy against the abandonment of domestic animals. The aim of this amendment is to ensure that these registers, which are already required to be kept, are automatically transmitted every year in order to be able to benefit from a reliable picture of the situation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u172	The rapporteur-general has the floor to support sub-amendments Nos. 497 and 496, which can be presented in a consolidated format, and to give the committee's opinion on amendment No. 229.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u173	Thank you, Mrs Cazebonne, for this very good amendment. The proposed mechanism must be organised within the framework of the observatory, which will be financed through a budget line of approximately EUR 1 million from the recovery plan, and whose creation corresponds to a recommendation I had made at the end of my mission. Indeed, there is a lack of reliable data on impoundments: for the number of entries, exits or euthanasias, the figures are simply declared by impoundments, without anything concrete. To carry out good public policies, it is important to create such an observatory and to make it benefit from the figures you refer to. The budget is set out in the stimulus plan, in accordance with the Minister's wishes, and that is a good thing. I am personally in favour of the amendment, the wording of which is specified in sub-amendments Nos 497 and 496.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u174	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u175	Favourable opinion on Amendment No 229, subject to the adoption of the two very important sub-amendments. We are talking about an essential element: according to the latest figures, 100,000 pets are abandoned every year, but according to the associations, you surely know, this figure is largely undervalued. We lack the means to develop and monitor this public policy. Indeed, effective public policies require monitoring bodies; The recovery plan will provide some of the funding. The amendment tabled by Mrs Cazebonne, subamended, would provide a basis for data collection; It is therefore a very useful provision.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u176	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u177	Mr rapporteur-general, you outlined the role of the observatory to be set up. Could you provide us with further information on its structure, composition and the tasks that could be entrusted to it, at this stage and to your knowledge?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u178	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u179	This tool is being developed; One of the two sub-amendments also indicates that this will be done by decree. I made a commitment to set up this observatory before 2022. We're working on it or, to be quite honest, we're going to start working on it because we've had a lot to do. It's my pleasure to talk to you about it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u180	Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor to support Amendment No. 285.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u181	From the beginning of our work, we navigate between the words "a dog or a cat" and the expression "companies". Through the various paragraphs of the article, we start by talking about dogs or cats, then we talk about pets, as we have just done in our debates – and I also pointed out yesterday that, in an impound, there will not only be dogs and cats. We unanimously voted to extend the waiting period until 15 days before the ultimate gesture, euthanasia. But does our vote concern pets – the dog, the cat or the rabbit that my little one lost and that was found by the impound – or only dogs and cats? Amendment No 285 proposes to replace, by consistency, the words 'a dog or a cat', which limit the provisions to two species, with 'a pet', in order not to distinguish between animals, all equally endearing, which our fellow citizens possess.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u182	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u183	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u184	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u185	Disadvantaged too. Mr Lambert, it is not that I only love dogs and cats, and not other pets, but a rat, for example, may be a pet, but it is difficult to distinguish a wild rat from a domestic rat when you find one in the street: should you collect in a burrow or a refuge all the rats you can meet? This is obviously not your goal; You're thinking more about hamsters and other animals of this type. But I am convinced that your proposal is not operational. My opinion, therefore, does not come from an exclusive love for dogs and cats, but from my conviction that the amendment you are proposing cannot be implemented by the municipalities.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u186	Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u187	I thank the Minister for taking the time to respond; However, I did not understand the rapporteur-general's argument. Minister, has the risk of the current alternation between "a dog or a cat" and "a pet" been measured? Is this inconsistency in reading not likely to involve incoherence in action? Maybe you can't answer now; Why not start a substantive work within the framework of the parliamentary shuttle to avoid falling into an in-between, the animals being designated, in the same article, in two different ways?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u188	I call Mr Philippe Meyer to support Amendment No. 74.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u189	Today, an abandoned or wandering animal without identification can, in fact, be collected directly by a host family, thus avoiding euthanasia. Mr Viry's amendment proposes to clarify, after paragraph 4, that the host family may be "a natural person who temporarily collected, without transfer of ownership, at his home, any stray animal. These foster families would have the same rights as a family chosen by the shelter that would entrust the animal to them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u190	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u191	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u192	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u193	Same opinion. I don't see how to make your proposal operational. You extend the notion of foster family to a family that would offer shelter and blanket to a pet that it would have collected without being the owner of. But how can the shelter or impound, which only has the identification number to trace to the owner, identify such a family? I see the meaning of your amendment, but I do not see how to apply it. I therefore propose that you withdraw it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u194	Mr Philippe Meyer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u195	A lost, abandoned or wandering animal can be considered to have no owner. It is in this spirit that he could be taken in by a temporary foster family, rather than being taken to the shelter and euthanized because he has no identification.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u196	Amendment No 165 by the rapporteur-general is a precise amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u197	I call Mr Yves Hemedinger to support Amendment No. 75.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u198	Amendment No 75, drawn up by Mr Viry, proposes, after the word 'welcome', to insert the words 'and collected by them'. Families who collect stray animals without going through the shelter must be subject to the same conditions and obligations as those who temporarily receive, without transfer of ownership, to their home, a cat or dog entrusted by a shelter, pending adoption.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u199	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u200	The concept of foster family has important legal consequences and controls, which would be difficult to organize. On the other hand, the case you are referring to does not correspond to the desire to frame the relationship between a shelter and a temporary foster family. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u201	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u202	[[Smile]] Mr Viry, I see your technique of entrusting the defence of your amendments to others, but be assured that I have nothing personal against you! Unfavorable opinion, for a pure legal reason. You propose to amend paragraph 6 to refer to animals taken in or collected by foster families, but paragraph 4 of the same article defines the concept of foster family. I suggest that we work together on a possible amendment to paragraph 4 in the context of the shuttle, but I would find it strange that paragraph 6 does not refer to the definition of foster care, which is central to the article.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u203	Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor to support Amendment No. 33.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u204	The amendment, proposed by my colleague Falorni, proposes to clarify the purpose of the new provisions by adding that foster families must ensure conditions for the welfare of animals. I would like to take this opportunity to say that, if I have avoided again tabling an amendment relating to the words "a dog or a cat" and "a pet", paragraph 6 speaks only of dogs and cats, which will therefore be the only ones to be affected by this advance which we will introduce into the law, the other pets remaining excluded. One can see the difficulty of alternating "a dog or a cat" and "a pet": in this case, with this writing, a rabbit would not benefit from the same treatments as a dog or a cat.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u205	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u206	Of course, the conditions of well-being must be ensured in families that will host animals, but this clarification is covered by the notion of biological imperatives of the species. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u207	I call Mr Bruno Bilde to support Amendment No. 376.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u208	As in the case of humans, animal abuse can take place in many ways. Thus, without being beaten or abused, too many animals are welcomed under conditions incompatible with their biological imperatives, particularly with regard to space. This amendment provides that foster care cannot be carried out if the animal does not have a minimum space required according to the needs of its species.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u209	Mr Julien Dive has the floor to support Amendment No. 247.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u210	I dropped it off to tease some of the participants – not you, minister! – the debate we had in this Chamber a few weeks ago on the authorisation of various plant protection substances, including neonicotinoids. I would simply like to warn that, as many farmers point out on the ground, they are supposed to be banned from substances they use in microscopic quantities, including imidacloprid and acetamiprid, when they are allowed to use them daily in dog and cat anti-chip collars. I do not, of course, claim to prohibit this type of necklace, since such a measure, which is not linked to the proposed law, would be rebutted under Article 45 of the Constitution, but merely alert to this point: we must be able to be logical and not to impose injunctions on certain actors – in this case farmers – while we are also blinding ourselves to certain uses of the substances concerned. I withdraw my amendment because I know that its examination will not be at the end, but I wanted to recall this principle of reality, which is so essential.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u211	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u212	Mrs Emmanuelle Anthoine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u213	Article 4 aims to generalize the sterilization of stray cats. This is a welcome step forward, which joins the bill aimed at the compulsory sterilization of stray cats that I had tabled on April 30, 2019. France has several million stray cats. This figure would reach 13 million in 2020, proof that the country is facing a proliferation out of control of stray animals. An unsterilized pussy can produce more than 22000 kittens: the numbers are actually astronomical, hence the need to control feline overpopulation. To stem this phenomenon while respecting the animal, it is necessary to carry out campaigns of sterilization of stray cats. This is what the animal protection and defence associations demand, first and foremost of which is the collective "100% compulsory sterilization cats", which brings together more than 500 associations and shelters. Sterilization is amply preferable to the practices that usually take place, which consist of sending stray cats to the impound, where they are often euthanized, which proves to be ineffective in curbing the proliferation of wandering animals. The section we are studying provides for a mechanism similar to that contained in the bill that I was defending. I therefore naturally support its adoption.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u214	Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u215	We must indeed move forward: some studies estimate that 100,000 cats are euthanized each year, sometimes because they have reached the end of their lives, but too often because of our inability to allow them to find a space of life, as we mentioned earlier. The Members of the Liberties and Territories Group therefore fully support the progress made under Article 4. However, the amendment which my colleague Olivier Falorni had tabled, so that a decree would lay down the procedure for compensating the additional costs imposed by the State on the municipalities, which was nothing unusual, was considered inadmissible – we have already discussed it. However, the text that we are going to adopt will create an additional burden for municipalities or local authorities – the sterilization of a cat costs 70 euros for a male and 130 euros for a female – and that no compensation is clearly foreseen. Perhaps this issue will be addressed in the context of the future "4D" law – decentralization, deconcentration, differentiation and decomplexation. The Liberties and Territories Group wanted to affirm its support for compulsory sterilization, which is a means of avoiding euthanasia, but also of stressing the responsibility that the State must assume in order to achieve this ambition.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u216	I have before me an amendment, No 313, to delete Article 4. Mr Hervé Pellois has the floor to support it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u217	It is indeed intended to retain the current wording of the Rural Code and the Maritime Fisheries Code. I have, in writing, taken over from the AMF – Association des maires de France et des présidents d'intercommunalité – which has not been heard to comment on these new provisions, which are of interest to all mayors. First of all, the withdrawal of the initiative granted to animal protection associations does not seem appropriate: the latter, in conjunction with the town halls, may decide themselves to act and thus discharge the communities from the sterilization campaigns. The cost has just been recalled: it still reaches 110 euros per animal. If associations can assume this, even in part, it is still useful. Secondly, the proposed amendment with Article 4 increases the risk of the municipalities being held responsible for the mayor's failure to implement his police powers. One last point comes to my mind: while we want to fight against animal abuse, cats are taken back, after their sterilization, to the place where they had been abandoned. Would it not be preferable, in any way – for sanitary reasons such as public tranquillity – to place them in a shelter? We must ask ourselves about the conditions under which these animals are released after their operation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u218	What is the committee's opinion on the deletion amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u219	Mr Pellois, first of all, I would like to make it very clear that I have asked the Association of Mayors of France and Presidents of Intercommunality three times between January and June 2020 to hear the representatives of the Association, without receiving any reply. I regret that, but that is the reality: the AMF did not wish to speak on these issues and was therefore not associated with our conclusions. I would then remind you that France has between 9 and 11 million cats supposedly wandering, almost as many as domestic cats – and they will soon be more numerous than the latter. Beyond the issues we are dealing with today, these cats suffer from undernutrition and diseases that are sometimes transmissible to humans, such as toxoplasmosis, moths or bartonellosis, and can affect public health. They present problems of neighbourhoods, urinary marking, miaulements, or relations between residents and animal protection associations. The stakes are therefore real. We may want to bypass it, but I think we need to treat it energetically. The recovery plan, I repeat, will contribute to this, as will the large animal protection associations, which already spend several million euros a year helping the communes – the three largest French associations have invested 2 million euros on their own. Veterinarians also participate in these campaigns, with their means, by granting reduced tariffs to animal protection associations for their sterilization and identification. In addition, of course, the work done gracefully by all the volunteers of the associations, who capture the animals to make them sterilize and identify them. There is therefore a form of tripartite collaboration between local authorities, animal protection associations and veterinarians. It should become quadripartite thanks to the support of the state, as the minister has committed himself to it. The prolificity of the cat means that France currently has 11 million. With one litter every two months and six kittens per litter – sexual maturity reaching 6 months – this figure is expected to increase. I myself, as mayor, have been confronted with this problem. In response, I concluded a public service delegation with an animal protection company. In Amendment No 318, Mr Corceiro of the Dem Group proposed a balanced solution, integrating both intercommunal and animal protection associations. The latter will not, formally, be at the initiative of sterilization, since the mayor will be obliged to do so. On the other hand, sterilization and identification could always be done on behalf of the associations, which will also retain their roles in managing, monitoring and defining the conditions of custody. I will therefore recommend the adoption of this amendment, which I have under-amended. On the deletion amendment, I am obviously expressing an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u220	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u221	I will not go back to what I have already said: it seems to me that we have presented all the elements and conclusions of the debate here. We all share, I believe, the desire to carry out these sterilizations. Everyone knows how important this issue is. Everyone also knows – above all, it will not be necessary to avoid it – that the question of financing will arise. I have just taken stock of this by relying on the wisdom of the House. That is my position on the deletion amendment. I also agree with the rapporteur-general on Amendment No 318.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u222	Mr Eric Diard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u223	I want to give a testimony of elected officials: when I became mayor in 2001, I took the initiative to sterilize cats. I do not claim that this was the best solution, but it was the worst: it certainly represents a cost, but it avoids the uncontrolled reproduction of cats. I was a little disappointed, minister: while I imagined myself no longer having cats after three or four years, it appears, of course, that some unfortunately take advantage of sterilization campaigns to abandon new cats on the premises already treated. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Mrs Aurore Bergé and Mr Remy Rebeyrotte also applaud]] So I admit that the task is not easy, but you will not find a better solution than sterilization. For 16 years as mayor, I can say that it is the worst option. The more the mayors sterilize the cats, the more we will avoid their proliferation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u224	Mr Hervé Pellois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u225	It is also my experience as mayor that prompts me to say that associations have a role to play. To remove the responsibility they can assume to help mayors is therefore not desirable. I understand very well that sterilization is useful: I have used it, and it is practiced in all municipalities. However, it represents a burden. Moreover, even if this is not the subject of Article 4, the return of the animal to the place where it was taken seems to me completely aberrant: the problems of public tranquillity are not necessarily solved, however, and this does not seem to me to be very effective in combating ill-treatment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u226	I have before me three amendments, Nos 403, 318 and 24, which can be discussed jointly. Amendment No 318 corrected is the subject of two sub-amendments, Nos. 501 and 503. Mr Jean-Louis Thiériot has the floor to support Amendment No. 403.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u227	I believe that there are a great many of us in this House to welcome the consideration of this section, which contains a bill that I tabled in September 2019 – we were determined to work on this issue. Two major elements are to be emphasized: the suffering of these malingrous, gallant cats that we see every day in our small communes; and the problem they pose for biodiversity, especially for birds, of which 75 million end up devoured by wandering cats each year. The amendment that I propose to you aims at allowing the mayor the freedom to proceed either with a release in nature – by reasoned decision – or with an impoundment. Indeed, in some territories, released cats, even sterilized cats, harm biodiversity; In areas of great cultivation, for example, stray cats are wreaking havoc in riparian colonies. In such cases, it would be appropriate for the mayor to be able to derogate, by reasoned opinion, from the mandatory rule of release in the same places, and to have the choice between this solution and the impoundment. There is also an inconsistency: an isolated cat is destined to be impounded, while a cat who lives in a group must necessarily be released. Freedom must be the rule for the mayor, on the understanding that animal welfare associations also have a role to play.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u228	I call Mr David Corceiro to support Amendment No 318 as corrected, which is the subject of two sub-amendments, Nos 501 and 503.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u229	While maintaining the transition from a faculty to an obligation to sterilize cats and retaining the addition made in committee, we hope that the responsibility for the operation will be shared, where appropriate, between the municipality and the public institution of intercommunal cooperation. This would de facto make it possible to allocate the costs of compulsory sterilization between town hall and intercommunality according to the transferred competences. We intend to help the mayors of small municipalities to limit the risks associated with feline overpopulation. This solution, which respects the animal, would avoid the failure of a municipality which does not have the financing or the means necessary to achieve the objective set. In addition, the identification of the animal could always be done on behalf of the animal protection association which would request it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u230	The rapporteur-general has the floor to support sub-amendment No 501.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u231	I am in favour of Amendment No 318 as corrected by Mr Corceiro, subject to the adoption of Subamendment No 501.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u232	Mr Loïc Prud'homme has the floor to support sub-amendment No. 503.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u233	There is a clear need to generalize the sterilization of cats, and this must be the responsibility of the municipalities or, where appropriate, the EPCIs. With this sub-amendment – I will come back to that when I defend Amendment No 183, if it does not fall – we would like to make it clear that sterilizations must be carried out in connection with associations, recognised actors in this field, which take action of general interest and currently take over most of the sterilizations. Cooperation between local authorities and associations must be maintained, as it is a guarantee of effectiveness.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u234	Mr Fabrice Brun's amendment No 24 is being defended. What is the Committee's opinion on the three amendments and the two sub-amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u235	My preference is for Amendment No 318 as corrected by Mr Corceiro, because it tends to retain the shared responsibility between the municipality and the intercommunality, which will allow us to better meet the costs and to ensure that the role of animal protection associations, whose role is indeed essential, is fulfilled. I would point out that it is a matter of rewriting Article 4 in its entirety and that its possible adoption will bring down all the other amendments to the Article. My sub-amendment No. 501 provides that the provisions of Article 4 will enter into force three months after the enactment of the Act. It takes up an amendment by Mr Studer accepted by the committee. I am in favour of sub-amendment No 503 by Mr Lachaud, which aims to clarify that sterilization operations are carried out in connection with animal protection associations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u236	Mr Eric Diard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u237	I had tabled an amendment to introduce a tax credit for individuals who sterilize their cats. I regret that it was declared inadmissible under Article 40 of the Constitution, because I think it was a good idea.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u238	Yes, a very nice idea!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u239	Mr Julien Dive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u240	I would like to ask you two very specific questions, Mr General. First, can you tell us, as a veterinarian, how much does it cost to sterilise a cat? Given that the number of stray cats in France is estimated at 10 to 12 million, we could thus appreciate the overall cost of sterilizations and the €20 million allocated by the Government to accompany the municipalities in this regard. Secondly, Article 4, of which I do not dispute the interest, will place a responsibility on the mayors and their teams. Now there is the law, and there is the facts. I myself was mayor of a rural commune with 1,000 inhabitants who had technical services, but how will a rural commune that does not have it do so to capture cats and have them sterilized? Above all, what happens if Mr. Mayor sterilizes a cat that drags around and thinks he's abandoned but actually belongs to Mrs. Michu, who didn't want such sterilization? This can happen, error is human. In this case, will the mayor's responsibility be engaged?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u241	The rapporteur-general has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u242	The minister and I have already spoken on the essential issue of costs. The prices charged by veterinary practitioners – I say that I am not a veterinary practitioner – are free and, therefore, very variable. As regards the sterilization of male and female cats, they apply specific floor prices for animal protection associations. As part of the recovery plan, the Minister announced, the association Vétérinaires pour tous will be revived, which will allow people who have the most difficulty to have their pet identified and sterilized. As for the capture of animals, it is currently carried out by impounders in the framework of public service delegations or, free of charge, by animal protection associations and their volunteers. The case you have mentioned may indeed occur, but the law states, I would remind you, that animals must be identified. If she did identify her cat, Mrs. Michu will be found by the mayor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u243	Often, as you know, identification is not done!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u244	Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u245	The sterilization of cats might seem an anecdotal question to our fellow citizens who are watching these debates, but it has become urgent given the exponential growth of the feline population in France: it grows by almost 1 million additional individuals every two years. We must therefore respond to the challenges. I would like to correct the above estimate: it is not 75 million but 750 million to 1 billion birds that are chewed each year by domestic cats, stray cats and other harets. And a total of 3 billion animals! These data are available, and I can transmit them to those who wish to do so. There is therefore a risk for ecological balances and biodiversity. As far as animal sterilization is concerned, it is not as easy to deploy as one might imagine, as the experiments carried out, particularly on some islands, show. I therefore regret that Eric Diard's amendment to create a tax credit was declared inadmissible under article 40 of the Constitution. It is important to put in place an aid to move faster, higher, stronger in sterilization. At the very least, I would like us to adopt, in a consensual approach, the sub-amendment No 503 of the Group of the European People's Party (France) which is incontrovertible, because all the actors must be mobilised. It would be a useful complement to the amendment supported by the rapporteur-general.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u246	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u247	I have a favourable opinion on Amendment No 318 as corrected and Subamendment No 501. On the other hand, I am against sub-amendment No 503 and the other two amendments under discussion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u248	I have before me two amendments, Nos 356 and 223, introducing an additional article after Article 4 and which may be subject to joint discussion. Amendment No 356 by Mr Jean-Louis Thiériot is being defended. Mrs Samantha Cazebonne has the floor to support Amendment No. 223.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u249	It also deals with sterilization, but with the sterilization of cats belonging to private individuals. The sterilization of stray cats by the municipalities is a very good thing, but we must also work to reduce the number of cats passing from our houses to the streets, making it compulsory for the sterilization of cats by private individuals, as Belgium has done for example. The feline population has increased by 30% in ten years, and its growth is exponential: in five years, a cat and a pussy can have an offspring of 20,000 individuals. This overpopulation not only creates situations of suffering for the affected street animals, but also represents a danger – this has been pointed out many times – for ecosystems and other animals. It leads to the depletion of the financial resources of animal welfare associations, as well as the emotional and physical exhaustion of their volunteers, who carry out a most difficult public service mission. It is also responsible for significant public expenditure. [[François-Michel Lambert applauds]] The sterilization of stray cats by the municipalities will not be sufficient to reverse the curve of the feline population. It is important to avoid that the kittens, of course very cute, born in our salons do not join the cohort of millions of stray cats.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u250	What is the committee's opinion on these two amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u251	I am sensitive to the arguments you have put forward, Mrs Cazebonne, as well as to those of Mr Thiériot. Nevertheless, we already have considerable work to do to deal with the issue of stray cats, whose number is estimated at 10 million and who live in absolutely dramatic sanitary and undernutrition conditions. The difficulties, as we can see, will be numerous. I propose that we focus on this work as a matter of priority. On the other hand, I do not understand the distinction that you make between breed cats and others. Why should we treat the former better than the latter?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u252	Right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u253	The Minister has the floor. What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u254	I have an unfavorable opinion. We cannot distinguish between the cats of breed, which we would accept that they are not sterilized...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u255	Gossip rich!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u256	...and those for whom sterilization would be imposed on anyone, on the pretext that they would not be breed cats.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u257	Sidewalk cats, gutter cats!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u258	I cannot accept such unequal treatment between cats.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u259	Absolutely! Well done, Mr. Minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u260	It's like the Aristochats! It's Beautiful versus Big Matou!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u261	Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u262	Mrs Cazebonne recalled the great risk we face. Let us recall the figures: about twenty to twenty-five years ago, there were 5 million cats called owners, that is, those who have an identification because they belong to a person; Today we count 15 million; In 2030, we will count 20 million, not counting all stray cats and so-called harets. This exponential growth, between 400,000 and 500,000 cats called additional owners per year, is not sustainable. At some point, we need to be aware of the consequences. A cat is not an object that is placed in the kitchen, it is a living being. Good, because it brings us a lot of comfort! However, the guarantee of its well-being – and we are here to ensure it – often corresponds to the ill-being of another animal. Thus, very large quantities of meat must be produced to feed their exponential growth, raising and slaughtering cows. I would remind you that within the next ten years, we could count on an additional 5 million cats, which will have to be fed to their needs, those of carnivores. We must adopt both measures. Earlier, we adopted the one on the obligation to sterilise stray cats. The amendment is intended to impose this same obligation on so-called owner cats. There is no doubt that there is a mistake in the drafting, by distinguishing between cats known as species and those which would not, which could be corrected by a sub-amendment by the rapporteur-general or the minister. We cannot reject the amendment, which I fully support, and act as if nothing were happening and the danger did not exist, even though it does exist.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u263	Mr Bastien Lachaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u264	I agree with Mr Lambert's argument and support these amendments. Beyond the question of overpopulation, which has been very well described, and its effects on biodiversity, especially given the number of birds killed every year by cats who have access to the outside, there is also the question of trafficking and its massive reproduction. If all registered cats were sterilized, we would control the reproduction, in order to avoid unchecked resales on sites or over-the-counter. This sterilization measure would reinforce the provisions of the bill, aimed at combating compulsive procurement, among other things. I confess that I do not understand why we could move forward on the sterilization of stray cats, when we would be unable to do so when it comes to the obligation to sterilize cats belonging to individuals. Moreover, this would have no effect on local government spending, since the cost would be borne by the private owners of the cats. I therefore do not understand the general rapporteur's or the minister's reasoning on these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u265	The Minister has the floor to support Amendment No. 402, which deletes Rule 4a.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u266	Article 4 bis is intended to enable the health veterinarian to inform the competent administrative authority without delay of any lack of identification. I have a problem with this article, because I am convinced that we cannot ask the veterinary profession to play a supervisory role, whereas it is to provide care for the animal.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u267	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u268	It cannot be implied that the veterinarian would be able to warn an administrative authority if it found that the regulations were not enforced, which could result in sanctioning the person who would bring the animal to the veterinarian. A veterinarian must remain a person who provides support and must never be perceived as a person who can exercise control.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u269	Absolutely! Their job is to heal!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u270	When reading such an article, Bourgelat must turn to his grave! I invoke his famous oath, which applies to future veterinarians, who "will prove by their conduct that they are all equally convinced that wealth consists less in the good we have than in the good we can do". This oath of Bourgelat, which all our veterinary fellow citizens take, must be respected. Accordingly, the Government's amendment must be adopted.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u271	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u272	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u273	Very well said!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u274	The rapporteur-general has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u275	It turns out that this article was proposed by someone who took Bourgelat's oath. I am in favour of the deletion amendment. Nevertheless, I would like to point out that veterinarians play a major role in electronic identification, which they alone can practice. There is work to be done on communication. Only 50% of cats and 60% to 70% of dogs are identified. Among the dogs passing through the veterinary box, a whole fringe escapes identification, even though this omission is sanctioned by law. Thus, the question arises. There must be a much more active approach on the part of the veterinary profession to ensure that identification is carried out. I-CAD, which manages the national identification file for domestic carnivores in France, releases annual operating surpluses on the identification chip. We need – and we need to do more – to use them to carry out large-scale communication campaigns, in order to really encourage people to identify their dogs and cats.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u276	Amendment No 279 by Mr Eric Pauget, introducing an additional article after Article 4a, is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u277	The purpose of this amendment is to require the reporting of animals in a deceased or imprisoned person. Amendment No 195, tabled after Article 5, to create a mandate for the future protection of the animal concluded by the notary, provides for this measure. I therefore call for Amendment No 279 to be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u278	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u279	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u280	Mr Fabrice Brun's amendment No 22 is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u281	I have before me three amendments, Nos 280, 289 and 151, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 280 and 289 by Mr Jean-Louis Thiériot are defended. I call Mr Yves Hemedinger to support Amendment No. 151.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u282	The identification of animals is an obligation for each owner. However, controls are insufficient and, above all, no penalties are foreseen. The amendment seeks to sanction the failure to identify an animal by a fifth class fine. It is well known that a law that does not provide for sanctions for non-compliance with its provisions is merely a pious wish. However, identification is necessary to combat the proliferation of wandering animals and to strengthen the accountability of owners.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u283	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u284	Masters who do not identify their pet, whether it is their dog or their cat – since 21 December 2020 for the owners of cats – are subject to a fourth category fine, amounting to 750 euros. That's enough already. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u285	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u286	The meaning of Amendment No 151 is also to point out that the failure to register was sanctioned for dogs, whereas this was not the case for cats. It's done today. When I launched the action plan to combat the abandonment of pets, I committed to punishing the lack of identification of cats. The difference between your amendment and the decision taken, as the rapporteur-general pointed out, is that the fine provided for is a fourth category, whereas you propose a fifth category fine. I invite you to withdraw your amendment because it is satisfied.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u287	Amendment No 287 by Mr Jean-Louis Thiériot is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u288	Amendment No 326 by Mrs Sophie Auconia is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u289	Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u290	Under Article 40 of the Constitution, an amendment proposed by the Libertés et Territoires Group was declared inadmissible, aimed at creating an observatory for the population of cats, because of the loss of control that we know today in this area. I recall that in 1988, there were just over 5 million so-called owner cats, namely those belonging to a person; In 2008, 20 years later, there were 10.7 million; Today, there are 15 million of them, and according to some projections, we would reach the figure of almost 20 million. And again, we know only the growth of the number of the most visible cats, that is, those belonging to our fellow citizens, because we have only estimates for stray cats and, for the so-called harets – which, if they belong to the same species, have totally returned to the wild state – we know neither their exact number nor the consequences of their presence. Therefore, the establishment of this observatory seems necessary, especially since 640000 tonnes of food, or 184000 tonnes of meat, are needed to feed the sole owners. If the weight of the cows is to be reported, it is necessary to raise 700000 cows just to feed the cats. We can accept that there are 15 million cats, but we must be aware that their uncontrolled growth will have greater consequences. Owner cats produce 375000 tonnes of waste per year and have a huge impact in terms of CO emissions. Let's be clear: I'm not saying that we need to reduce the place of the cat in our society, but that we lack tools to monitor it. This was the meaning of the amendment, declared inadmissible, which aimed at the creation of an observatory of the population of cats in France, whether they were owners, wanderers or harets. Through this observatory, we could bring the right answers, instead of acting too late or too hard, and risk that our fellow citizens, under fair emotion, do not understand the action of the legislator and the executive, that is, of the state.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u291	Amendment No 394 by the rapporteur-general is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u292	I have before me two amendments, Nos 202 and 281, on the additional article after Article 4b, which can be discussed jointly. Mrs Laurence Trastour-Isnart has the floor to support Amendment No. 202.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u293	The aim of this amendment is to introduce a withdrawal period of 14 days for the purchase of a pet, as already exists for purchases on the Internet. When we go to a pet store on Saturdays, as a family, a little cat can please us, but once he's home and claws on the couch, we realize that we don't want him anymore. The same goes for the little dog who eats slippers. Regrettably, citizens make compulsive purchases at the request of their children or family members. Then they realize that they are unable to take care of this animal. The amendment is therefore intended to allow it to be brought back to the animal shop within 14 days of purchase, so that it is not abused or abandoned.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u294	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u295	Mr Pauget's amendment No. 281 is being defended. What is the committee's opinion on these two amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u296	It would have been better if we had considered your amendment, Mrs Trastour-Isnart, after discussing the issue of sale in a pet store, which I am opposed to personally. You describe the phenomenon of compulsive purchase of an animal in a pet store as if it were a purchase like another, during a walk. But the solution that you are proposing to this problem is, in essence, an artifice. Personally, I agree with the subject of your amendment, but being opposed to the sale in a pet store, I give him an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u297	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u298	[["Oh" on the benches of the LR group]] For my part, I am in favour of selling in a pet store, but totally against these amendments. If the intention is commendable, the effect of these amendments would be counterproductive. Our goal is to empower new pet owners. But telling them that they can bring the animal back if they are not happy with their purchase would, if you follow my thought, encourage them to acquire one, for, no matter what, they will be satisfied or reimbursed. I believe that encouraging buyers to take an animal on the grounds that they will always be able to bring it back if it bothers them could lead to abuse. I would add that someone who would realize that an animal acquired in a pet store does not finally suit him always has the possibility of entrusting him to a shelter. To establish an option for returning to a pet store would seem to me to be tantamount to clearing the buyer of his liability. I repeat, the intention here is quite commendable and I agree with the objective pursued, but these amendments would lead to a drift which I think is too dangerous for me to give them a favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u299	Mrs Laurence Trastour-Isnart has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u300	Taking an animal is indeed a responsibility and its choice needs to be matured. Often, however, the choice is not considered. Buyers don't necessarily have in mind that they can take the animal to a shelter and – what I'm going to say doesn't please me – some owners then decide to throw the cat or dog out the window. That's what I want to avoid. Inform the client that he or she can bring the animal back in case of need protects the animal from malicious acts or violence.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u301	Mrs Sophie Auconia has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u302	I hear your arguments, minister, but I believe that being able to bring an animal back to its place of sale could prevent France from holding the sad record of the number of cats and dogs abandoned. Such a delay in withdrawal would enable us to reduce the number of abandonments in a certain way. In addition, if I wanted to buy a cat or a pet dog, it was first in a pet store that I would go to, because this is the preferred place for it. Thus, in the event that I return the animal because I consider, as a liability, that I am not able to take care of it, another person could acquire it the next day. This can be a way of fighting animal abandonment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u303	Mrs Aurore Bergé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u304	In Article 1, we voted for the introduction of a certificate of knowledge accompanying the acquisition of an animal. If we adopt these amendments, we would continue to regard the animal as an object which, if it becomes too cumbersome, ceases to respond to the wishes of each other or does not adapt as desired, can simply be returned. That would be contrary to the objective of the certificate of knowledge and to the approach of responsibility that we must have. I repeat, the purpose of this bill is to make it very clear that an animal is not acquired as is the purchase of any vulgar object and that consideration should be given to the act of purchase or adoption. To hear, when buying, that if we wish to return the animal because you do not like it, it is not serious, and thus to be able to get rid of it for fourteen days, it seems to me completely contradictory with what we are trying to achieve by affirming principles and by empowering the buyer. That is why I am very opposed to these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u305	Mr Julien Dive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u306	Without denying each other's arguments, which are, in substance, all interesting, I believe that these amendments would hold the seller accountable. Indeed, if it is true that a certificate of knowledge, as we have adopted in Article 1, must be signed by the purchaser of a pet animal, it is not accompanied by any means of coercion. The person may also regret their purchase despite this certificate, which they may not have read. This is the whole paradox of the text: nothing prevents regretting its purchase. Therefore the buyer can decide to return the animal even if he has signed the certificate. With these amendments, we would reverse the burden of liability by placing it on the seller, who would be obliged to take the animal back, whereas there is nothing to force it to do so at the present time. We can condemn the reasons why a buyer would regret his acquisition of an animal, but human nature is thus made that one cannot completely control his reactions. But if one wants to get rid of the animal and the other refuses to take it back, it will end up in nature. In fact, things are already happening in this way. There are certainly many of you who have met the SPA antenna of your department or constituency. For my part, I do it every year and volunteers explain to us that some people adopt a dog or a cat, then come back a few weeks later to return it – if they have not abandoned it in nature. Most often, volunteers agree to take it back because they know very well that, if they refuse, they will have to pick it up a few days or weeks later in a village. I therefore believe that these amendments would make it possible to empower the seller.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u307	On identical Amendments Nos 9 and 130, I am seized by the IDU Group and independent of them of a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. I have before me five amendments, Nos 17, 194, 415, 213 and 228, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 17, 194 and 415 are identical, as are Amendments Nos 213 and 228. Mr Philippe Chalumeau has the floor to support Amendment No. 17.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u308	In recent years, interest in new pets has been growing in French and European homes. These exotic wild animals are mainly reptiles, birds, primates and other mammals, or insects, the majority of which are imported from non-European countries and whose origin is sometimes illegal, thus fuelling trafficking that leads directly to a loss of biodiversity. In France, the possession of these animals is currently governed by the Order of 8 October 2018, a regulation with very limited effects and little focus on animal welfare. As we know, the proximity between humans and non-native wildlife can have dramatic consequences, such as zoonoses, public safety implications, inappropriate detention conditions, wildlife trafficking or the disappearance of species. Therefore, a positive, more proactive and more restrictive list of non-domestic species that may be held by individuals as pets should be included in the legislation. Any other species of non-domestic animal that is not on this positive list could not be traded or held by and for an individual, unless strictly waived.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u309	The rapporteur-general has the floor to support Amendment No 194.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u310	I would add to what has just been said by Philippe Chalumeau that, as drafted, the order of October 8, 2018 is not operational. DDPP – the departmental directorates for population protection – often find it difficult to implement. Moreover, Belgium, the Netherlands and other countries have introduced such a provision and it would appear that this is working very well. Finally, this idea of a positive, restrictive and very precise list is supported by many scientists.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u311	I call Mr Cédric Villani to support Amendment No. 415.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u312	All the arguments were raised by previous speakers. So far, we have mostly talked about dogs and cats, on the occasion of rabbits, but here we are dealing with animals belonging to very different species, such as toucans, varans or ferrets. For some species, things are going well, but for others, they are much more complicated, with a danger to the animal or to the person who holds it. There are health problems related to zoonoses, trafficking problems, and threats to biodiversity. It has been a long time since scientists and associations, such as the Animal Code, warned about the importance of further regulating this new pet sector. It's an emergency! For example, a positive list of species that may be held as a pet would be an important step.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u313	I call Mrs O'Petit to support Amendment No. 213.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u314	Like the previous amendments, this amendment aims to establish a positive list of exotic species that may belong to the pet category. Indeed, some exotic species have life requirements that are incompatible with those of the human species. It is also necessary to combat trafficking affecting them. And, thirdly, these species can be dangerous to humans, in that they are likely to transmit zoonoses. Without this indispensable list, we would remain vague and I would not understand that it is not accepted.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u315	Mrs Samantha Cazebonne has the floor to support Amendment No. 228.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u316	My colleagues have defended very well the principle of a positive list of non-domestic species that may be held by private individuals.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u317	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u318	I call for identical amendments Nos 213 and 228 to be withdrawn in favour of identical amendments Nos 17, 194 and 415.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u319	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u320	I call for the withdrawal of all these amendments, which I believe are satisfactory. In its latest version, the Order of 8 October 2018 lays down the general conditions for the holding of non-domestic animals, without a positive list, and establishes the list of non-domestic animals that cannot be held. That is why these amendments, which tend to include in the text a list of animals authorised to be kept, seem redundant to me. Furthermore, I hear what the rapporteur-general and Mr Villani say about the difficulty of implementing this directive. I am prepared to work to reduce it, but I do not believe that the introduction of a positive list would contribute to it. It would be better to review the order, as Mr. Villani said.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u321	Mr Cédric Villani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u322	Minister, thank you for these explanations. The substance of the case is that there is no positive list of animals authorized for detention. As the rapporteur-general has said, we find it difficult to interpret this point, and it is even more difficult for individuals. The establishment of such a list, which would require only a small amount of work, would bring a considerable benefit in solving a problem that required urgent action. It would satisfy a long-standing demand from both scientists and associations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u323	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u324	We're shooting at an incomprehension. I am prepared to work on this subject, but I remind you of the terms of Article 13 of the Order of 8 October 2018: "only animals of species or groups of species listed in Appendix 2 shall be held within the limits of the numbers set out in column (b) of that Annex". Then comes a set of conditions. The list contained in that annex, which I have before me, is positive. That is why the amendments seem to me to be satisfactory. While waiting to rework during the shuttle on this atrociously complicated subject, I propose to remove them. Otherwise, I rely on the wisdom of the House.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u325	Calling for an amendment to be withdrawn is a polite way of expressing an unfavorable opinion. Both terms are synonymous.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u326	I call Mr Yves Hemedinger to support Amendment No. 146.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u327	Its aim is to combat animal trafficking and to break the supply chain of animal plants, which sometimes originates in real factory farms. In these intensive farms, animals are often ill, unsocialized or traumatized. Located mainly in Eastern Europe, these establishments contribute, without any doubt, to the spread of diseases. The amendment also aims to prohibit the sale of animals at demonstrations, fairs and markets, where, as everyone has seen, animals are being mistreated. These events also promote impulse purchases, which will often lead to abandonment. Finally, we propose to prohibit the sale of animals by classified ads published on generalist websites and online sales platforms, which do not create any obligation for sellers, whereas those to which professionals are subject may give rise to control.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u328	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u329	For the sake of clarity of the debate, I would ask you to withdraw the amendment. It deals with both the sale of animals and on non-specialised websites. However, these two distribution channels are very distinct. They do not pose the same difficulties and give rise to very different conditions of detention for animals. We will then discuss specific amendments on the sale in animal shops or on the Internet.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u330	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u331	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u332	I have before me five amendments, No 9 corrected, 130, 38, 52 and 86, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 9 and 130 are identical, as are Amendments Nos 52 and 86. Mr Christophe Naegelen has the floor to support Amendment No. 9, as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u333	The amendment is simple. We know that 80% of sales of dogs and cats are made via non-specialised online sales sites and platforms, making the internet the first French pet store. Despite the order of 1 January 2016, which aims to secure the device, the number of fraudulent advertisements does not decrease. We therefore propose to prohibit the sale of pets by classified ads on non-specialised websites and platforms.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u334	The rapporteur-general has the floor to support Amendment No. 130.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u335	To go in the same direction, I stress that it is absolutely necessary to include digital platforms in the reflection on non-specialised sales sites. The "puppies to give" page of a large social network has 8000 subscribers, the "adult sale and puppies of any breed" page brings together 7000, the "cats, cats to give or book" page 17000, and I could continue the list. In this case, it is not a non-specialized online sales site but a large platform that you all know. Secondly, in advertisements published on non-specialised online sales websites – as there are also specialized websites specific to a breeder or a group of breeders or a company, such as the Central Canine Society – there are many frauds, which makes it difficult for professional breeders to distribute their advertisements. In 2013 – the figure is old and it can be assumed that since then the situation has worsened – the National Union of Dog and Cat Professions estimated the profit from selling dogs and cats on a well-known classified ad site at several million euros. According to him, almost 80 per cent of the classifieds on this site came from individuals. Some of them may present themselves as professionals, citing false numbers of SIREN – business directory identification system – or SIRET – establishment directory identification system – or not indicating them at all, without any control. More recently, in December, the Brigitte Bardot Foundation found that in the classifieds 75% of the identification numbers – mandatory for any sale of a pet – were false. For all these reasons, the sale of pet animals should be prohibited not only on non-specialised sites but also on platforms. Otherwise, false professionals with false numbers of SIREN and SIRET invented by private individuals who want to earn a little money will become more difficult for professional breeders who do a good job.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u336	Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor to support Amendment No. 38.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u337	We are doing a comprehensive work on animal abuse, but one of the key points we want to take action on is the abandonment of animals, often linked to the ease of acquiring them as movable property. Despite the reform that we undertook six years ago under the impetus of our colleague Laurence Abeille, too many of our fellow citizens have not changed their vision. However, selling on non-specialised websites makes it easier to go back and forth between sellers and purchasers of animals traded as objects. If we have then recognized the quality of animals as living beings gifted with sensitivity, we cannot let them sell – sorry to be brutal – like vehicle spare parts or children's clothes. In order to put an end to those flows which are no longer acceptable, it is essential that we vote today on Amendment No 38, of which Mr Falorni is the first signatory, or on another amendment if one is more effective and precise.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u338	Mr Vincent Ledoux has the floor to support Amendment No. 52.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u339	It aims to regulate exchanges that the internet has completely deregulated. Throughout the first part of the discussion, we asked ourselves how to empower the purchaser of an animal, which is not done by allowing compulsive and unregulated purchases. I would point out that, if sales are regulated by regulations, compliance with them is never controlled. As the rapporteur-general has observed, an unthinkable purchase creates a triple penalty: it exposes the animal to the risk of abandonment; it harms the licensed breeders, who actually practise this profession; Finally, it promotes horrific international trafficking, against which, as long as we allow the sale of animals to non-specialised sites, we cannot fight. The classifieds embellished with beautiful pictures of kittens or puppies, all more beautiful than each other, which collect a lot of "likes", do not go in the right direction. That is why this amendment aims to empower the seller as the future owner of an animal.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u340	I call Mr Guillaume Chiche to support Amendment No. 86.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u341	It is intended to prohibit the sale of dogs, cats and other pets listed in an order of the Minister responsible for agriculture on a cost-effective or free basis. It is essential to extend the effects of this list to non-specialised online sales sites such as Le Bon Coin, where ads for animals are increasing. These ads are rarely in line with reality and do not allow the potential acquirer to exchange on the commitment that will be his by taking an animal. The aim of the amendment is to combat abandonment in the long run. I also support the identical amendments by my colleagues Naegelen and Dombreval, the wording of which is more precise.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u342	What is the committee's opinion on these amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u343	Opinion in favour of identical amendments Nos 9 and 130. Opinion unfavourable to others.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u344	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u345	The consideration of these amendments at this stage of the debate is somewhat indistinguishable because the subject will come back later in the discussion with Amendment No 462 as corrected, to which I shall give a favourable opinion. Therefore, opinions which are unfavourable to all the amendments
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u346	What's he saying, the 462 rectified?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u347	It's very good, the 462 rectified!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u348	Let us be clear: we are all aiming for the same objective, which is to combat the drifts found on the Internet. I was the first shocked to see a puppy for sale on a platform in the category of toys. We immediately worked on the subject and the platform showed how much it wanted to support the Government and parliamentarians so that this kind of thing would not be possible tomorrow. The wish of the legislator, whom I understand and share, is to go further than the commitments already made by this platform to the Government. The question is: What is the most appropriate scheme? As parliamentarians, you are well placed to know the difficulty of regulating behaviour on the Internet. These amendments under joint discussion make various proposals. The first is to say: "Only specialized sites can sell animals. The difficulty lies in the fact that it is quite simple, for a general platform, to create a specialized site in order to circumvent the legislation. Another is to say, "You have to ban everything. But a shelter or a breeder might want to use online ads. Still others say: "Only the sites of the refuges and the breeders will have the opportunity to do so. The reality is that, despite their local reputation, it is not true that anyone who wishes to welcome an animal will fall on the site of the nearest shelter or breeder – some do not even have a site. Amendment No 462 as corrected, which I mentioned, provides for a general ban, with the exception of shelters and herders, who will have the opportunity to place advertisements online. The rapporteur-general is right to point out that it is possible to divert SIRET numbers. Indeed, if you have to register to get a SIRET number, enforcing the law after registration is another job, which we have to do with the platforms. I stress this point: Internet regulation will be done by law, but it requires co-construction with platforms if we want to go faster. I am sorry to preempt the debate but, as I am preparing to give an opinion in favour of Amendment No 462 as corrected, I repeat, I am expressing an unfavorable opinion on all these amendments under joint discussion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u349	The rapporteur-general has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u350	In no case will the economic model of non-specialised online sales sites – Le Bon Coin et al. – be put in trouble with animal ads; On the other hand, these announcements make it difficult for animals to live. The National Union of Dog and Cat Professions is opposed to selling on non-specialised sites, but it is not a question of questioning specialized sites. Let me give you a few examples. On RTL 5 minutes, in 2020, in Lorraine: "71 puppies sold on Le Bon Coin illegally". In Le Parisien, at Grace, in 2020: "Serval sold on the internet". In La Provence: "Arnaque internet: a mother pays 2000 euros for a ghost cat on the internet". The SPA, in Upper Saône: "150 dogs imported since 2015 from Slovakia to be sold on the internet". On wildlife and new pets, a survey by the International Front for the Protection of Animals, conducted in France, Russia, Germany and Great Britain, counts 1,772 specimens of endangered wildlife listed in 5,381 ads and messages at 106 online sales sites and four social networks, for an estimated amount of €3.2 million.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u351	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u352	Minister, we have heard your thoughts: you want to moderate the enthusiasm of those who, on these benches, want to hit hard. However, we share the desire to type hard, and to type hard, on what I described in the general discussion as an "opaque pool", on these trades resulting from the mercantile nature of the approaches we observe on the platforms. It would also have the immense virtue of sending a strong message to our fellow citizens by directing those who wish to find a companion to the shelters. They have told us that they would like the public to turn more resolutely to the animals they collect. We will vote for all of these amendments, or at least for those that the rapporteur-general would like to accept.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u353	Mr Eric Diard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u354	In my personal capacity, I will support identical Amendments Nos 9 and 130, which I believe are very timely because they do not concern specialised sites. I did not understand your answer that it would be easy to create specialized sites, minister. No! It is very easy to sell animals on non-specialised websites or on Facebook. The rapporteur-general has cited a number of abuses, and I will also talk about horrors: there was a whole trade in kittens and small rabbits on these sites to feed snakes. These two identical amendments therefore go in the right direction.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u355	Mrs Emilie Bonnivard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u356	I agree quite well with my colleague Diard, but I have a question: what will happen to individuals who welcome one or more litters of kittens and who occasionally go through the internet to place them when they find it difficult to find a buyer? Not offering them this channel can pose a challenge for the future of these kittens.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u357	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u358	I would like to reiterate, for the sake of clarity in our debates, that we all share the same firmness in the fight against impulsive purchases of animals on the Internet. Amendment No 9, as corrected, is a great step forward, but among all the proposals, I prefer Amendment No 462 as corrected, which will be considered later. Amendment No 9 corrected proposes to include in Article L. 214-7 of the Rural and Maritime Code that dogs and cats cannot be sold on the websites: point! However, I believe that refuges and herders should be able to do so, which would no longer be possible under Amendment No 9.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u359	They can do it on specialized sites!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u360	Amendment No 9, as corrected, does not allow this.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u361	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u362	No. Amendment No 9 corrected reads as follows: "In the first paragraph of Article L. 214-7 of the Rural and Maritime Code, after the word "prohibited", the words "on non-specialised online sales platforms and sites" are inserted. For a general platform, circumvention is easy: it is enough to place "animals" before its name – I will not mention any in particular – to create a specialized platform. We do not want that. The detour is simple: if the generalist platform creates a specialized subpage, it passes through the meshes of the net.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u363	It's exactly the same thing!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u364	Let's stay calm.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u365	But I'm still calm.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u366	I'm just saying we have to find the worst solution. For me, it is Amendment No 462 that has been corrected: it provides that no one has the right to use online platforms, except shelters and breeders, not to mention infrastructure. It seems to me that it's clearer that way.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u367	Mr Cédric Villani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u368	The subject deserves discussion. We are at a key point in the text, which was recalled yesterday that one of the main objectives is to combat the abandonment that often follows compulsive purchases and against this phenomenon which sees animals sold as objects, at random from a generalist site. We have to put an end to it. [[Mr. Christophe Naegelen applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, I am convinced that Amendment No 462, as corrected, will not regulate anything. It will allow the same practices and you will continue to find on The Good Corner animals that have nothing to do with it. You know, like me, how difficult it is to regulate the Internet: the phenomena indicated by the rapporteur-general, false SIRETs, false identities and scams will continue. The real measure which corresponds to the intention of the law, which we can be proud of, is that laid down in Amendments Nos 9 and 130.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u369	Mr Vincent Ledoux has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u370	I believe, like Mr Villani, that the problem will not be solved – this problem is first of all the fraud allowed by the absence of a Siren or Siret number. Amendment No 462 rectified refers to websites, not platforms: therefore, on platforms that are well known and to which we are not going to advertise, it will always be the same too. We all have the same goal; To achieve it, it is necessary to be as effective as possible. I believe, however, that identical Amendments Nos 9 and 130 are the most effective ones.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u371	The floor is for Mr Bastien Lachaud – whom I do not censor, I simply take the speakers in order...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u372	I also support Amendments Nos 9 and 130. Currently, the third financial traffic, behind drugs and weapons, is pet trafficking. How do you want to fight effectively against it if you do not prohibit the sale of the product of this traffic on non-specialised platforms and sites? I hear the minister's argument in favour of Amendment No 462 as corrected, but who will check every announcement of non-specialised sites? Minister, what means will you give to the police in this country to combat this trafficking? That's the question. Without additional means, Amendment No 462 as corrected will remain a dead letter because it will not be implemented. Do we really want to vote for a law, in this House that will not be applied, and not applicable,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u373	It'd be good for the first time!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u374	...as long as you haven't dedicated the necessary police and judicial resources to him? Identical Amendments Nos 9 and 130 allow for simpler and more effective control.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u375	Mr Vincent Rolland has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u376	I'll make Mrs. Bonnivard's remarks my own. If individuals whose pussy have had litters can no longer use such websites, what will become of kittens? One can fear that they are not, except for snakes, at least euthanized in a barbaric manner. Let us also try to anticipate such a consequence to avoid it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u377	Mr Christophe Naegelen has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u378	Of course, I am in favour of Amendment No 9, as it is mine. But all the explanations given by our colleagues Ledoux, Villani and Lachaud, as well as by the rapporteur-general, support it. Typhanie Degois issued an information report on the protection of animal welfare in the European Union for the Committee on European Affairs. During all the hearings that we have conducted, Typhanie Degois and I, proposals identical to those of this amendment have been defended by the professionals who, every day, try not only to save the lives of as many animals as possible, but also to spare them the suffering due to the way they are marketed. As drafted, Amendment No 462, as corrected, will not prevent anything, since, in reality, on non-specialised platforms, some people falsify Siren numbers to make themselves known as specialised companies. The only way to effectively protect animals is therefore to prohibit sale on non-specialised platforms.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u379	Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u380	I have read all the amendments and listened to the minister. Those who want to circumvent the law will always find a way to do so. The point here is to be very clear. We will therefore support Amendment No 462 as corrected by Aurore Bergé and I withdraw Amendment No 38.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u381	Mrs Aurore Bergé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u382	This bill has a clear objective: to combat abuse. While some voluntarily abuse, others abuse only because they have not been accompanied in their act of purchase, acquisition or adoption. Online selling poses a clear problem, because it does not allow this support, except when the sale is carried out by qualified professionals: to say the opposite is to ignore the work carried out by the breeders and the shelters. We need these places of animal protection, essential because they allow the French to continue to adopt or acquire animals, to keep the means to make themselves known. It is obvious that fraudulent advertisements should be removed and that animals should not be sold online under saugrenous categories such as "toy". In order to combat compulsive purchasing and fraud, Amendment No 462 as corrected, tabled by the Group of the Republic on the move, which the Minister referred to, and which we are going to examine, aims to regulate online selling, for the first time – this is a major step forward – by reserving it to breeders and refuges. I would point out that the measure would not concern donations, in order to address any concerns in this area. I therefore call on you to vote against the amendments under joint discussion and for Amendment No 462, as corrected, when it is discussed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u383	I put to the vote identical amendments Nos 9 and 130.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u384	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 115 Number of votes cast 100 Absolute majority 51 For adoption 42 Against 58
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u385	Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor to support Amendment No. 204.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u386	It aims to add carnivals to the list of events in which the sale of animals is prohibited, which has not been the legislator's choice until now. I hope that the minister and the rapporteur-general can hear me: in the carnivals too, animal donations take place. I am thinking in particular of all the Momo or Maurice the goldfish, who are living very special moments. They are first stored by the fora in very small aquariums – I am well placed to know it, because I have brought them home many times. Sometimes the plastic bag in which they are transported explodes along the way: then the fish are thrown into the sewer, making sure that our children are not worried, that Maurice has escaped, that he will find the sea, while we know very well what will happen.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u387	You did that!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u388	In the best case, Mauritius will live a few days in what is like a jar, at home. For all "Mauritius goldfish" and all other animals offered at fairground parties, I propose to add this prohibition.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u389	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u390	This request seems to me already satisfied by the mention "all other events" in article L. 214-7 of the Rural Code and of marine fishing. Request for withdrawal.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u391	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u392	I confirm the rapporteur-general's statement. According to article L. 214-7 of the Rural and Maritime Code: "The disposal, free or expensive, of dogs and cats and other pets whose list is fixed by an order of the Minister responsible for agriculture and the Minister responsible for the environment is prohibited in fairs, markets, brocades, fairs, exhibitions or any other events not specifically devoted to animals. » On the other hand, Mr Lambert, I have not yet checked – but I undertake to do so – that the order in question concerns, among other things, redfish. In any case, the legislative basis is there. Rather, it is in this order that these prohibitions are applied, but I am ready to discuss them with you. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u393	Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u394	I withdraw my amendment, since it already seems satisfied. I have heard that the minister will pay attention to this question: redfish, which are not a toy, must be included in the order. Thank you for that clarification.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u395	On amendment No 462, as corrected, I have a request for a public ballot before the La République en marche group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. I have before me two amendments, Nos 111 and 131, which can be put to a joint debate. Mr Eric Diard has the floor to support Amendment No. 111.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u396	According to a survey by the FIFG, six in ten Frenchmen want to ban the sale of animals in a pet store. Like the United States in 2017, and the United Kingdom by the Act of 6 April 2020, animal farms should be able to offer only animal refuges. By limiting impulse purchases, we fight against abandonment. In addition, as you know, some unscrupulous animalries sometimes falsify the age of puppies, selling very young puppies, thus fuelling animal trafficking. In principle, a puppy can only be marketed for at least four months. However, such puppies are already too large to attract the attention of customers. In fact, we can legitimately ask ourselves what become of animals that have become too big to interest petries and of which no one wants.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u397	The rapporteur-general has the floor to support Amendment No. 131, as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u398	While moving in the direction of Eric Diard's amendment, my proposal is to allow for a slightly longer transition. The sale of pet animals in a pet store is expected to end in 2024, in three years' time. Mr Diard, I would like to recall a few facts that you did not mention when they seem important to me to fuel the debate. You mentioned Great Britain, about a recent law, unanimously passed by the British Parliament in April 2020, the Lucy's Law. We should also mention California, or Madrid, which is working in this direction. I will give some very concrete examples of problems in some animal facilities – not all of them. West France states that in 2020, in Mulhouse, customs officers discovered ninety-eight puppies in a Slovak-origin van moving to Spanish pet stores. France 3 PACA – Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur – tells us that forty-three kittens and puppies have been seized in boxes, near Gap. This cargo, coming from Ukraine, was intended to feed petries, and so on. There are several problems: the living and transport conditions of these animals are unworthy; some puppies come from puppy farms, and have been badly weaned, causing behavioural problems that will lead to their abandonment; the regulation is not complied with. My veterinary colleagues also tell me that cats and dogs from animalry often suffer from scabies, moths, intestinal parasites linked to the concentration of animals behind the windows – this also seems shocking to me. I therefore propose a ban on these sales of animal products from 2024 onwards.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u399	What is the Government's opinion on the two amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u400	In life, you have to order your fights. Ours is very clear: it concerns impulsive purchases, especially those facilitated by the lack of advice and framework on the Internet, which we have just discussed. In my opinion, the case of petries and gardening is different. First, the men and women who work there are there to advise their clients. Then you have to believe in what you have already voted. In fact, by introducing the certificate of knowledge of the specific needs of the species, you have sent the following message to professionals: "Ladies and gentlemen who work in a pet store or garden, your role is better to advise. These institutions must therefore be able to continue their activities. I would add that animals or gardens are found all over our territory, where they are important places. Finally, animal acquisitions in livestock and gardening represent only about 18,000 of the 800,000 that take place each year. Of course, if one in eight of these 18,000 animals is abandoned, it is already too much. But, in my view, our fight is not there: it concerns compulsive purchase, which no one accompanies and which takes place on the internet or at the foot of the truck, while, in petries and gardens, professionals are present. That is precisely why we entrust them with the verification of these certificates of knowledge. Mr Diard, the rapporteur-general, I understand that the provenance of animals sold in animal production can be a problem – but this is another subject, which must be distinguished from the one we are dealing with. Any dog, puppy or cat sold in a pet store does not come from an animal trafficking industry in Eastern countries, even if this can happen, and must be controlled. During the parliamentary shuttle, I am ready to work on the very important links between animal stores and shelters. They already exist, but they are complicated because of the transfer of deeds of ownership. Tomorrow, animals from refuges can be sold in petries, with accompaniment by trained people. We carry out 200 checks per year in the 2000 existing animal plants: every year 10% of the animal plants are checked. It's about knowing what the fights are and how to circumscribe them. [[Ms. Sereine Mauborgne applauds]] Let me add one more point. The Department's legal services alert me to the possibility of a constitutional risk of disproportion, since, in order to combat a phenomenon, it would be possible to prohibit a sector of activity, even though there might be a middle way, created by the text itself: the certificates. This is an important point, and I had to make it clear to you in full transparency. But my argument is different: petries and gardening can be controlled and accompanied. I am not in favour of throwing reproach at all the petries and gardens.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u401	The rapporteur-general has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u402	Seven years ago, the largest French pet chain stopped selling puppies and kittens in its stores – more than 200 outlets. Its growth is excellent; She even makes the absence of puppies and kittens in her spokes a marketing argument to generate traffic. On the other hand, existing animal chains consistently explain that the sale of puppies and kittens does not earn them anything, but allows them to generate traffic at their outlets. This is an important element to consider. The cessation of the sale within three years will probably have no economic impact on the animal industry: we see this with the example of a large German chain of origin with more than 200 outlets in France, which no longer sells puppy or kitten. It is understandable, because these sales do not yield anything, as logistics, animal maintenance and staff training make them very burdensome. On the other hand, these pet stores say, a little more discreetly, that they intend anyway to quickly end the sale of puppies and kittens, because they are tired of talking about them in the media.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u403	Mr Eric Diard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u404	Minister, we are talking about impulse or impulsive purchases, not compulsive purchases, as you may have said. Compulsive purchasing is the result of a person who has a frenzy of purchases during sales: that's not what we're talking about. Doesn't that shock you that animals are sold in a garden? You're also talking about petries, I hear it. But I am shocked that we sell animals in a garden, where we sell equipment and items to make our garden: what is the relationship between the animal and the garden? You understand the distinction between a pet store and a garden. I have heard about the conditions for the transport of these animals and the abuses that have occurred in certain animal and garden shops, of which I was aware. The argument you are opposing is financial: the constitutional argument is not valid. As the rapporteur has pointed out, gardening and petries do not make any money with the sale of animals. If they stop selling them, they won't close! Do not stir up the spectre of unconstitutionality, which does not exist, or the economic spectrum, which does not exist either. I am prepared to withdraw my amendment, because it may be necessary to set a deadline until 2024. But your arguments do not hold: a garden must not sell animals.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u405	And a pet store doesn't have to sell flowers?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u406	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u407	Mr President, I cannot let you say that I am using financial arguments! That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u408	That's what you said!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u409	No! Take my words, listen to them again: I have never spoken the word "financial". It's not a question of funding at all! I don't believe this argument, I didn't even mention it. You're beginning to know me: I have a duty to share with you the opinion of my legal department – as I told you – while saying that my remarks were not based on these arguments. I can't be more transparent and clearer with you! It seems sound to me, for a minister, to inform the national representative of what his legal department is telling him.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u410	That's not true! The string is big!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u411	I don't know how to say it in other words. In full transparency, I have indicated to you the information provided by my Legal Service, while telling you that my argument is not based on it. I don't know how else to say it. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Furthermore, there are no pet stores everywhere and when you go to a garden, the staff of the pet store are not the ones who deal with the sale of watering pipes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u412	Mr Alain Perea has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u413	I am deeply opposed to these arguments, which, in my view, are hypocrisy. Let no one take this term wrong, which belongs to me. Since the beginning of our work, we have been told of important polls in which the French would show a love for animals: I think that is true. But we rely on these surveys to pass on different measures – I voted in favour of many of them and I will continue. Yet it is the same people who make compulsive purchases: as soon as they see an animal, they cannot help it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u414	Pulse shopping!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u415	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Pulsive or impulsive, as you wish. It is not by keeping the animals out of the sight of these people, especially by getting them out of the pet stores that sell flowers – it is also the opposite – that we will continue to work calmly on the issues of well-contracting and abuse. We need to tackle the real problems. I hope that associations with a gable on the street will carry out genuine awareness-raising activities. I would like us to carry out a real substantive work on the subject, stopping playing on the sensitivities when it suits us and, conversely, denigrating it when it does not help us. Let's continue to sell animals in petries and do a job with the French, so that they can regain a normal relationship with the animals.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u416	Mrs. Sophie Beaudouin-Hubiere has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u417	I would like the rapporteur-general to present his argument a little better, which I do not understand, that petries should be closed, because there would be malfunctions. If we have fun at this point, we're going to close almost the entire country: there are malfunctions in many places! The solution is not to close them to correct malfunctions: this answer is not up to the subject. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] And then I ask myself a question for my fishing friends: it seems to me that the earthworms are animals and I don't know where to find them, tomorrow, if the petries are closed! There are a lot of fishermen in my constituency and I feel sorry for that. It was a little bit of a wink, because I'm not telling you that I'm a little annoyed: yes, we rejected a rapporteur-general's amendment earlier, and I find it quite insensitive to see me complain about it in the second on Twitter.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u418	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u419	At this stage of the debate, I would like to welcome the work and the comments of the rapporteur-general, for the rigor of his arguments in his initial proposal – supported by a significant minority of our House – on stopping the online sale and on the issue of sales in the animal industry. He also put forward a proposal for an exit for these activities, which seems quite compatible with the problems raised by the Minister with regard to the conversion of activities and jobs. I also note that this argument should be used in many other areas which are not necessarily in the minds of the majority when these questions are asked. There's a split in the majority: you're talking about sensitiveness, but there's no question of sensitiveness here! We are talking about identified animal abuse, some of which have stressed the particularly narrow nature of it. I note that you are coming back very appreciably, and against the rapporteur-general, on proposals that could put a corner in what you have wanted, that is to say, the transparency of this bill and its outcome. I regret that.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u420	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u421	I would like to speak immediately, because I do not want the debates to go in this direction, Mr Wulfranc: we share the same fight. With regard to the sale of animals online, we know the difficulties of the various options that were before us: they all offer nets whose meshes are not tight enough. We can have differences on how to tighten them, but there is no substantive problem: we all agree. Options have been more or less advanced, all of which are unsatisfactory: my responsibility is then to tighten the grids sufficiently, which the law cannot necessarily do.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u422	Yes.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u423	We cannot pretend that amendments are better than others.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u424	We can think of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u425	That's not true. We all know that the Internet is terribly complicated and that it is possible to create a specialized site or get a SIRET number in two minutes. There is no magic solution and we all agree to fight the drifts on the internet. As far as animal farms are concerned, the solution is to control them as much as possible and to raise their awareness: to give them the opportunity to sell animals from refuges is not necessarily a bad idea and does not constitute any denial of the common fight. I would therefore not like the debates to drift in one direction or another. As far as the Internet is concerned, we all agree. As far as animal production is concerned, we have the right to ask ourselves: do we have to shut everything down or control what is going on there? Selling animals from refuges in a pet store seems to me a good idea, when you see the difficulties of some refuges. These amendments do not propose this: their sole purpose is to prohibit the sale of cats and dogs in animal shops.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u426	That's not what's in the law.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u427	I didn't hear. That's why I object.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u428	I call Mr Dimitri Houbron, rapporteur of the Committee on Economic Affairs, to speak on Chapter II.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u429	I would like to speak on Chapter I – it is quite rare, as you will have noticed – to support the rapporteur-general's amendment. The question posed by this amendment is an ethical question: is an animal, a living being endowed with sensitivity – recognised as such in the civil code since 2015 – a mere object of consumption, which can be bought in a shop as a pet store? That's the question. [[Exclaims]] Personally – I think many of you agree – I consider that the philosophy of professional breeders is not the same as that of petries, whose aim is to sell a product – it's sad, but that's how it is – while a professional breeder will be interested in the buyer, will make sure that he knows the race he wants to buy and that he is aware of all the elements that result from it. I listened silently, with great respect; I'm asking you to do the same for me. Professional breeders are in another way: their philosophy is different.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u430	Then, who didn't experience a pet shop visit with his child, who discovers a little dog behind a plexiglas and wants it? How can I resist him? The risk lies in this loving effect, which leads to an impulsive purchase with adverse consequences. Indeed, the child always promises that he will take care of the animal, that he will take it out, but that is not the way things are going. So you have to tell her no, but not all parents do. That is why we need to be much more vigilant: it is essential to ban the sale of dogs and cats in pet stores.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u431	The rapporteur-general pointed out that the largest animal chain had already given up selling dogs and cats and that its turnover had nevertheless exploded. Indeed, the ethical dimension concerns our fellow citizens: all the polls show that they are in favour of banning the sale of dogs and cats in a pet store. [[MM. Pierre-Yves Bournazel, Vincent Ledoux and Hubert Wulfranc applaud]] Finally, shelters suffer because they are full. If we were to make only one message, it would be that we should not buy dogs or cats, but adopt those who are there. We must therefore vote on Amendment No 131 as corrected: it provides an indispensable answer to an ethical question, and I am convinced that this answer will convince the majority of you.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u432	Mr Yves Hemedinger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u433	I agree to refuse to point fingers at all the petries and gardens. Nevertheless, it is well known that the marketing of large chains is designed to encourage impulsive purchases, and everything helps. The control of supplies is an even more important problem, the most serious in my view. You pointed out that a large chain – only one – no longer sold dogs or cats, because it was not profitable. This means that all the others, who maintain this activity, are trying to make volume, which means finding the cheapest supplies possible, often in the Eastern countries. Controls in this area must be strengthened. You mentioned the number of 200 checks for 2000 animal farms, but you forgot to add the gardens: it's not enough. That's the crux of the problem, so that's where we have to act.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u434	The rapporteur of the Committee on Economic Affairs has the floor for Chapters III and IV.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u435	[[Mr François Ruffin applauds]] I have no argument to add, but it seemed important to me to show that we – the other two rapporteurs in the text – were defending Loïc Dombreval's amendment. We all know how it goes: it's Sunday,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u436	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u437	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] ...it's raining, the kids are turning around, we don't know what to do; We're taking them to the pet store. They see the dog behind the window, with his miserable little eyes, and they crack.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u438	Denying is called parental authority!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u439	We are listening to the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, who is obviously speaking in her personal capacity.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u440	It is the purchase of love par excellence, which illustrates in particular the principles that we intend to fight. We have, moreover, stated in the law that the animal is a sensitive being. We must draw the consequences: therefore, it cannot be a call product in a pet store. Finally, prohibiting the sale of dogs and cats in petries will not lead to their closure. Most of their turnover does not depend on this activity. The Fédération des jardineries et animaleries de France has sent us a note, in which they make the distinction.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u441	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u442	I would like to endorse the rapporteur-general's statement. Twenty years ago, one of the first reports I made for my newspaper was dedicated to a shelter in the SPA in Amiens. He was full of cracks. Members called for the arrival of animals to cease. I then accompanied them to the vet, to whom they took their lot of dogs and cats every night to sting. To avoid this does not amount to being sensitive! This requires, of course, an increase in adoptions, but also a reduction in the number of entries. The adoption of an animal by a family must be the result of a project long matured and thoughtful, and not the result of an impulsive purchase after three clicks on an internet platform or during a visit to the gardening area. We go there to buy worms for fishing or something, and we take an animal, because the kid started crying behind the caddie. These adoptions end at the shelter. We therefore disagree, minister: it is not by promoting consumer awareness that we will achieve this. There are places where the citizen must intervene to handcuff the consumer and prohibit him from buying impulsively.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u443	Unbelievable!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u444	Yeah, that's amazing! A real reflection must precede the choice of a family life with an animal. It is therefore necessary to say no to purchases of animals on platforms, because they are feasible in three clicks, as in gardening, because we do not go there for it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u445	Mrs Aurore Bergé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u446	On the substance of the amendment, my position is known. Considering that it is anachronistic and that adoption rather than purchase should be preferred, I am against the sale of cats and dogs in petries. For those who want to buy these animals, it is best that they go to a breeder, who guarantees traceability and accompaniment. That is the meaning we give to this bill. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] On the other hand, I cannot let certain groups say that the majority would not be mobilized against animal abuse. Without this majority, there would be no text or debate, without this majority, there would be no framework for online selling, without this majority, there would be no increase in penalties for animal abuse and without this majority there would be no certificates of knowledge. Its members may have differing opinions about animal welfare, and that is their right, but this majority is very clear about the fight against animal abuse, which it has put on the agenda!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u447	Mr Eric Diard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u448	Minister, we must both ban posters and advertising, fight against the Internet and eventually stop the sale of cats and dogs in animal and garden shops, if you really want to fight impulsive shopping. I withdraw my amendment in favour of the rapporteur-general, who is reasonable and progressive.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u449	I have two identical amendments before me, Nos 178 and 236. I call Mr Bastien Lachaud to support Amendment No. 178.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u450	The Assembly will have no difficulty in adopting it, in the wake of the previous one. It is intended to completely eliminate the derogations that the prefect may grant to the prohibition on the sale of pets at fairs, or other places not specifically dedicated to animals. It's not possible for dogs and cats anymore.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u451	The rapporteur has the floor to support the identical amendment No. 236.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u452	It aims to prevent the sale of domestic animals in fairs, markets, brocades, trade fairs, exhibitions or any other non-animal-specific events. Derogations cannot already be granted for the sale of cats or dogs; we wish to extend this regime to other pets. We've all seen a hamster in brocades in a shoe box on the edge of a table. The aim is to put an end to such practices.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u453	What is the opinion of the committee on these identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u454	It is favourable; We wish to remove prefectural derogations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u455	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u456	Mr Lachaud, your amendment is missing its purpose. What does paragraph 2 of article L. 214-7 provide? "Exceptional exemptions for specific and time-limited sales over one or more predefined periods and at specific locations may be granted by the Prefect to non-sedentary traders for the sale of pet animals in non-animal locations. It is not because prefects can resort to similar derogations that they do anything! As far as I'm concerned, I trust the intelligence of the territories. The opinion is therefore unfavourable. This does not mean that I do not want to regulate this possibility, but I believe that the law already severely restricts the scope of prefectural derogations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u457	I have before me two amendments, Nos 462 and 110, which can be discussed jointly. Mrs Aurore Bergé has the floor to support Amendment No. 462 as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u458	I will defend it quickly because we have already mentioned it. Our group's objective is to frame online selling in law – it will be a first – and to distinguish the sale of an animal from that of an object, to prevent anything and everything from being possible. The amendment tends to restrict the sale to qualified professionals, i.e. only to refuges and breeders.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u459	Mr Eric Diard has the floor to support Amendment No. 110.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u460	It is intended to complement the one defended by Mrs Bergé, adding that any violation of this prohibition is liable to a fine of EUR 7500.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u461	What is the committee's opinion on these amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u462	Unfavorable opinion on amendment No. 110. Mr Diard, your disposition seems excessive. Opinion in favour of Amendment No 462 as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u463	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u464	The opinion is in favour of Amendment No 462 as corrected and as opposed to Amendment No 110. A brief remark: I already see everyone getting excited on social networks, especially some associations. For example, the League of Animals wants a framework to improve the control of ads on non-specialised sites.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u465	It's unbearable! It's not the associations that make the law.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u466	This is not what Amendment No 462 rectified proposes, which provides that, on pet websites, only professionals – i.e. shelters, farms and registered establishments – will be allowed to sell. I repeat, it is difficult to have hookless nets on the Internet, whether it be the SIRET number, a specialized site or a non-specialised site. Let's stop saying that some people want more than others. There are different nets. Let's break these postures and make sure we have a hookless net. Let us stop pretending that one solution is better than another, because that is not true.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u467	Mr Vincent Ledoux has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u468	Twitter does not have to be invited to this Chamber.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u469	There you go.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u470	Minister, respond to MPs and not to people on Twitter. I would like to make that clear, which will allow us to have clearer debates. This amendment is, of course, defended by Mrs Berger. The Committee on Economic Affairs has also worked on this, as have the Members from the various parliamentary groups who have spoken on this subject. Perhaps we should try to talk about the House and our common will to improve the animal condition: it is not the thing of the majority, it is not the thing of the opposition, it is the thing of Members who have finally understood that awareness is necessary and that we must fight against animal abuse. Little flat: Mrs Berger's amendment should be reworked as part of the parliamentary shuttle. This amendment states: "Only persons carrying out the activities provided for in Articles L. 214-6-1 to L. 214-6-3 may propose the transfer of pets on a website". But you have previously stated that it would allow the continuation of the classified ads of free divestitures, pointing for example to the birth of a range of kittens to be given: but the fact of mentioning "transfer", and not "expensive divestiture", implies that the classified ads of free divestitures will no longer be allowed. On the other hand, if the amendment referred to "costful disposal", the risk would be that expensive divestiture announcements would be disguised as free divestitures. So it's very complicated. So the real question, Minister, is how many divisions we have in order to fight effectively. We always come back to the same problem: there is upstream, there is downstream, but between the two, control is necessary. How many divisions do we have? For the Action Together group, it will be a "yes, but".
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u471	Mr Eric Diard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u472	I will withdraw my amendment. I know this is the new world, but, minister, please do us: you are here to respond to MPs, not to reply to Twitter. Please listen to us and listen to us.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u473	Mr Ian Boucard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u474	I have not understood how Amendment No 462 as corrected answers the question raised by Mr Emilie Bonnivard. How can we respond to the case of the individual who wants to be able to give a litter of kittens? Prohibiting it will lead to the exact opposite: kittens may end up euthanized at home, which is not a good solution. This amendment is therefore not well drafted, because it will not allow the continuation of a practice that seems sound to me. Not everyone is dishonest and does not sell gutter cats on the internet.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u475	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u476	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] Frankly, can I have the trial not to answer the questions of parliamentarians? Honestly, have you seen the number of texts I've examined with you? Sometimes I am criticized for being too talkative, too long, because I want to answer each of you. So don't accuse me of deporting myself to others! I made this remark, because I know the little political game: as a minister, I am also a political figure! What I don't accept...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u477	That's how it is, it's not you.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u478	...it is the little political game that consists of saying that some are completely for, while others would be less so-called. I am the first to say that the fight against abusive internet sales must be fought, but we may not agree on the net to be used. I undertake to rework the text within the framework of the parliamentary shuttle, in order to tighten the meshes of the net. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] On the other hand, I will fight against all those who will claim that some are febrile, while others have found the right solution. That's not true: no one has found the right solution. Please avoid remarks of the type: "It is not focused, it does not answer the questions of the MPs", especially in my place. Stop it, MP, otherwise I'll stop answering the questions. You've seen it pass, ministers who didn't really answer the questions, frankly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u479	There was one earlier!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u480	Mr François Ruffin, who will help calm the assembly, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u481	First of all, I greet the minister, because what he said is correct. It must be acknowledged: it responds and it debates. There is thus someone more angry and nervous than I am in this House, which rarely happens! Let's get to the bottom. I disagree: it's not a hole, it's a bliss! How are you going to unravel those who are professionals of those who are not? Will you look, advert by ad, if they are professionals? I don't believe it at all. How many people will be available in your ministry to carry out this task? You mentioned the difficulty of regulating the internet: that is why clear rules must be laid down. If you had banned animal sales ads on non-specialized sites as well as on platforms, the rules would have been clear and applicable, while the one you are proposing is not applicable, unless you take responsibility for the sites and platforms. Therefore, penalties will have to be provided for sites and platforms that allow the presence of non-professional ads, which, for the time being, is not at all foreseen: you only aim to empower the advertiser, without having the means to sort between the ads. Under these circumstances, this amendment will not be effective.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u482	Mrs Emilie Bonnivard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u483	I just want to bear witness: could we avoid instrumentalizing the debates with a view to strengthening and exacerbating differences, when we are all in agreement here to greatly improve the treatment of animals? I thank the majority for taking the initiative in this text and I also thank the minister for the consistency and clarity of his remarks.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u484	Excellent.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u485	[[Applause on several benches of the LR group and on the benches of the groups LaREM, Dem and Agir ens]] Rationality must be our guide. Social networks do not have to be involved in the debate, which is the responsibility of national representation. Everyone has to stay in their place. We have all received associations, we have all heard them: they too must be attentive to our common work, to the healthy debate that we are conducting to improve the cause of animals, without exacerbating differences that need not be.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u486	Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u487	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] I would like to point out that the Minister has, no doubt, responded more to the amendments than the rapporteur-general has done, who has merely opposed them. I therefore welcome him in this regard. The wording of the amendment will need to be improved. For example, does it include, in addition to websites, related platforms – sales on Twitter, Facebook or social networks? I come back to my leitmotiv, which includes all pets, while we only targeted dogs and cats, to exclude them from petries. So I wonder about our relationship to animals. Does the future law imply that some animals are superior to others? I've been saying it since yesterday and I'm continuing: let's try to be consistent. I thank my colleague Aurore Bergé for taking into account all pets, not just dogs and cats. We should also have done so with regard to the previous amendments, in particular the one on animal feed, which was adopted. There are no second-class animals.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u488	The rapporteur-general has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u489	Amendment No 462, as corrected, brings about a real improvement over the existing one, which is absolutely undeniable. Mr Ruffin, it is quite simple to ensure that the advertisements that will be published are accurate, by means of the animal identification number, which must be systematically indicated at the time of a transfer. This would require a close link between the platform, or website, and the national identification file. It's just a pipe to install.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u490	Do it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u491	In Ireland, there is a link between the online sales sites and the identification file: just look if the number is true or not, and if it corresponds to the ad. [[Applause from Mr Bruno Millienne]] This was proposed by I–CAD at the Bon Coin. It is up to the latter and the other platforms to take the necessary steps to ensure that this technology, which will only take a few weeks to a few months to implement, can actually be introduced.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u492	Bravo, rapporteur, you don't speak often, but well.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u493	I put to the vote Amendment No 462 as corrected, which is the subject of a favourable opinion by the Committee and the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u494	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 103 Number of votes cast 98 Absolute majority 50 For adoption 96 Against 2
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u495	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1138.u496	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one hours: Proposal for a law on the reform of insurance brokering and brokering in banking and payment services; Bill ratifying various orders made on the basis of Article 11 of Act No. 2020-290 of 23 March 2020 emergency to deal with the epidemic of covid -19; Further to the proposal for a law to strengthen the fight against animal abuse. The meeting is adjourned.
