ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u1	The next item is the debate on the proposal for an organic law by Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon and several of his colleagues introducing a citizens' sponsorship procedure for the presidential election (No. 3478, 4086).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u2	Mr Alexis Corbière, Deputy Rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u3	Mr President, Madam Minister responsible for integration, ladies and gentlemen, the text that I have the honour to present to you is a simple statement, but of obvious seriousness: our country is experiencing a cold insurgency against the institutions, which is being carried out with an ever-increasing abstention. Of course, this is amplified by the health crisis, but the reality cannot be reduced to this temporary crisis. The same is true of elections in elections: abstention is increasing, mostly among young people, but also in the popular circles, among workers, the employees, all of whom, for various but often well-founded reasons, ask themselves a question: what is the point of voting? Can we really talk today about institutions "for the people, by the people"? We doubt it. The time has therefore come to give citizens their full capacity to act. As the fourth social wave begins to hit our country hard, it is essential to give our fellow citizens new civil rights, so that they can better intervene. It is not only a necessity, but also a republican duty. We must work to restore popular sovereignty. This proposal for an organic law will therefore make it possible to establish – as a complement, I stress, to this point, of the current system of sponsorship to the presidential election by the elected representatives – a system of sponsorship based on the citizens who embody the purest expression of popular sovereignty. "The current system of sponsorships [a] lived": such a finding was first drawn up, not by La France insoumé, but by the Committee for Reflection and Proposal on the Modernization and Rebalancing of the Institutions of the Fifth Republic, chaired by Mr.Édouard Balladur, in 2008. He was reiterated in 2012 by the Commission on the Renewal and Ethics of Public Life, chaired by Mr Lionel Jospin.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u4	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u5	The commission had proposed to entrust the responsibility of presenting a candidate in the presidential election to at least 150,000 citizens on the electoral lists. It is this system of sponsorship that we repeat in this proposal for an organic law, even if it is no longer a question of replacing the existing system, but simply of supplementing it. The current system is not questionable in principle, but in practical terms. And since, during the examination of the text in the Committee on Laws, many colleagues appeared troubled on this point, I repeat that the new procedure would be parallel to the current one. She would not replace her, she would not confuse herself with her: she would exist next to her, independently. With this new mechanism we want to remedy the shortcomings of the current system, which requires each candidate to collect 500 signatures and makes any application impossible if this collection fails. This system is based on a kind of privilege of elected officials and imposes a sometimes anti-democratic filter, which is not without real difficulties. First of all, it creates uncertainty for some popular candidates, coming from very significant currents in political life, about their ability to participate in the presidential election. It also entails a risk of instrumentalisation of the procedure, which concerns in particular the mayors of small communes, often rural. With all due respect, we know that, even if they often allow, thanks to their real democratic concern, candidates whose ideas they do not share to present themselves, they remain dependent on more lasting political parties. For example, they are sometimes under pressure from urban community presidents, political party staffs, or large elected officials. In our view, this oriented procedure serves equality between candidates. How can we not be revolted? Finally, with this text, the aim is to allow for greater popular intervention in the preparation of the presidential election, which is the cornerstone of the institutions of the Fifth Republic. It has not escaped anyone that the vast majority of the French people, as I recalled, sometimes – often, even – carry out a form of civic strike. Abstention from elections progresses year after year. It currently stands at about 50 per cent, except in the presidential election, where it still affects one in four voters, which is not negligible. She is the witness and the revealing of the deep crisis that is affecting the Fifth Republic. No republican conscience can ignore such a fundamental trend. This cold insurrection against the institutions of the Fifth Republic owes nothing to chance, it is symptomatic of a system that puts the citizen away from public decision-making. Major changes are therefore needed. You know our programme: we criticize all the institutions of the Fifth Republic such as the Fifth Republic itself and want the establishment of a Sixth Republic by a Constituent Assembly. The day after Napoleon's bicentenary anniversary,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u6	From his death!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u7	...I make it clear that we want to put an end to the presidential caesarism that sometimes hangs over political life, according to which the election of a great man or a great woman would solve all the problems. Of course, we do not agree with this system, but in order to change the institutions, we must win the presidential election, and before that, we must be able to stand there. Our proposal for citizen sponsorship appears to be one of the ways to involve citizens more closely in the preparations for the election of the President or the President of the Republic. I would like to reiterate that citizen sponsorship and sponsorship by elected officials are not opposed. The first engine remains the people, only the people.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u8	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u9	Some have said that the mayors, by sponsoring the candidates, already guarantee the good representativeness of the political opinions of the voters. It's only half true. In 1959, the abstention rate in municipal elections was around 25 per cent. Today's more than double. In the last municipal elections, participation has been the lowest ever in our country: more than 55% of our citizens have given up voting. How could a candidate be fully representative when those sponsoring him or her sometimes represent only 20% of the voters registered in their commune? I recall that in 2017, in the last presidential election, out of the four leading candidates, at least three – Mr Emmanuel Macron, Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon and Mrs Marine Le Pen – who together won more than 60% of the vote, were not members of political parties with a significant number of municipal elected...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u10	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u11	...– even if they could be supported by such training. Let us look at this evolution of political life! Municipal elections cannot be regarded as a fair reflection of the different political views that arise during the presidential election. Let me turn to the practical details of our proposal: sponsorship should be provided by at least 150,000 citizens, i.e. 0.33% of voters, a percentage which is in line with the average observed in the European states which have established a citizen sponsorship mechanism for the presidential election, whether it is exclusive, as in Portugal or Poland, or parallel to another system of prior qualification, as in Austria and Finland. The threshold chosen appears high enough to limit non-representative applications, or testimony, while avoiding the exclusion of an application that reflects a representative trend. At present, several candidates, coming from currents which cannot be considered negligible, obtain between 200000 and 600,000 votes in the first round of all the ballots. In addition, the 150000 sponsorship threshold would be accompanied by a national representativeness clause, which is essential to ensure the national foundation of the candidates. For example, presentations should come from at least fifty departments, or overseas communities, without a department or community providing more than 5% of sponsorships, or 7,500 signatures. An elector would be able to sponsor only one candidate by election and there would be no publicity for this – this is important. In fact, unlike the presentation of a candidate in the presidential election by an elected one, which is known by the voters, since it constitutes an act of political responsibility – for which, moreover, the elected one has not been appointed – the sponsorship by a citizen is approaching the election of a vote and must remain secret. The procedure would be guaranteed by the Constitutional Council, the guardian of the rules of sponsorship. In committee, some colleagues have criticized the staggered temporality of the text, considering that it is too late. But should it be recalled that amendments to the Act of 6 November 1962 on the election of the President of the Republic by universal suffrage have already taken place less than a year before the presidential election? I will give two recent examples: the Organic Law of 25 April 2016 on the modernization of the rules applicable to the presidential election, and the Organic Law of 28 February 2012 on the reimbursement of the campaign expenses of the presidential election, adopted on the eve of the presidential elections of 2017 and 2012, respectively, without any problem. Colleagues, indifference is not an option in the face of the massive civic strike that is gaining ground, year after year. We must forge institutions that express the sovereignty of the people. When the people withdraw, it is necessary to change the rules. Let us therefore draw lessons from the cold anger that has seen the emergence of different popular impulses that we, for our part, have supported – I am thinking in particular of the yellow vests, but also of the citizen mobilizations, especially for the climate, which I greet. [[Applause on the banks of the FI groups. – Ms Marie-GeorgeBuffetapplauditedalso]] The solution lies in a first citizen re-appropriation of the presidential election, which, as you know, determines the lives of all our citizens for five years – although, of course, I regret the extreme presidentialization of our regime. This first step would place millions of our fellow citizens at the heart of democratic rules, as actors and not as mere spectators of decisions that apply to them. I therefore invite you, ladies and gentlemen, to adopt this text, so that it can be applied as soon as the election of 2022 takes place.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u12	The next speaker is the Minister for Integration.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u13	Why? What does it have to do with the subject?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, I would be grateful if you would excuse my colleagues in the Ministry of the Interior, who were held at the last minute by other imperatives. The proposal for an organic law brought to the attention of your assembly aims to introduce a citizen sponsorship procedure in the framework of the presidential candidacy. By a single article, it creates a mechanism complementary to that already in force: it would not replace it and it would not combine with it – it would not be to obtain both the sponsorship of mayors and that of citizens. The threshold would be 150000 citizen sponsorships, the anonymity of the sponsorship would be guaranteed and a national representativeness clause would be added. You would therefore like to see the responsibility of empowering those who can participate in the presidential election go to the citizens themselves, as opposed to the rules of a system, which, in your opinion, has lived and promotes abstention. We fully understand the desire to improve the place given to the French in democratic time, and we share this concern. However, we do not agree on how this can be achieved. [[Mr. Jimmy Pahun applauds]] Citizen participation and the inclusion of the French are principles to which the presidential majority is particularly attached. We defend daily the ambition to improve them since the beginning of the current quinquennium. The most convincing example is the composition of this assembly, where the majority's commitment led to a massive entry into politics of women and men in civil society during the 2017 parliamentary elections. Your assembly is the most feminized of the Fifth Republic and we can be proud of it. The Government is also aware of the need to modernize our political model by strengthening participatory democracy and by making it more inclusive of the voices of citizens. That is why we are taking initiatives to develop civic conventions,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u15	We've seen what you've done with the climate!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u16	... to extend the referral to the Economic, Social and Environmental Council (EESC) by means of a petition, to involve people drawn by lot in the work of the Council, to create digital consultation platforms. We are indeed on the road to a renewal of our democracy. The proposal for an organic law presented this morning does not contribute to this necessary modernization.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u17	Ah?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u18	We all share the desire to increase citizen participation, but your proposal is missing its target. The Government is opposed to that. On the one hand, the current procedure makes it possible to exercise effective democratic control without calling into question direct universal suffrage; It makes it possible to reconcile the clarity of the vote with the diversity of the political offer. On the other hand, the device does not seem operational as it is. Indeed, the control and the verification procedure are already particularly dense, and checking the authenticity of the 150,000 sponsorships would pose important difficulties.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u19	We're doing it right for the joint initiative referendum!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u20	This would amount to verifying 1.5 million sponsorships in less than 20 days. In addition, the sponsorship system by 150,000 citizens would not replace the sponsorship of mayors.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u21	Well, no.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u22	You get it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u23	The mechanism that you propose would therefore put in the presence on one side the candidates from citizen sponsorships and, in front of them, the candidates benefiting from the sponsorship of the elected representatives. We do not see the benefit of such opposition, and I believe that the role of mayor sponsorship is essential. We want to reaffirm here our full commitment to the work of the mayors of our communes, whose full commitment I know, being myself a local elected representative. They deserve their full place in the presidential election process. Their proximity to the French and French, their knowledge of the terrain and everyday life are evident. In our view, sponsorship by mayors is a means of reconciling, as I said, the clarity of the vote and the diversity of the political offer. We are deeply convinced that this is the best instrument to enable a coherent representation of the political offer in the presidential election. Moreover, the system you propose would exclude candidates for the presidential election. However, we do not believe that reducing access to this election is a good thing. Indeed, if your law had been effective, Pierre Boussel, for the Movement for a Workers' Party, would not have been able to present himself in 1988,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u24	There!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u25	...Jacques Cheminade could not have presented himself in 1995,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u26	She's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u27	... Daniel Gluckstein, for the Workers' Party, could not have run in 2002, and so on.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u28	Why? That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u29	In each presidential election, your proposal would have prevented one or more candidates from running. Beyond the fundamental reservations, it seems to us that it would be a mistake to provoke such a upheaval in this difficult period and less than a year from the presidential election. For more than a year, the health crisis has upset our lives and our daily lives, and we are convinced that it is now our duty to bring stability to the French. The presidential election is an essential democratic moment, and that of 2022 will be particularly so. It would therefore not seem appropriate to introduce such a procedure within one year of the first round. In these troubled times, we all need stability, and this need is particularly strong in the case of the presidential election.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u30	Stability, you can see it...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u31	The Government is fully prepared to consider with all political groups ways and means of improving the procedure for the election of the President of the Republic. This is an important debate, which must take place largely, to ensure the sincerity of the presidential election. We consider that the conditions are not in place here to reassure our fellow citizens, who are committed to the readability and clarity of the vote allowing the election of the President of the Republic. [[Applause on the banks of the LaREM group. – Mrs BlandineBrocardapplauditedalso]] At this time, we can draw two conclusions: on the one hand, the French need stability; On the other hand, they have confidence in our local elected officials and mayors. That is why we are committed to working on a long-term basis to combat abstention and distrust of the institutions and to continue to give meaning to our democratic life.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u32	Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon spoke in the general debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u33	I come to this rostrum with some knowledge on the subject we have to deal with, since I have twice been a candidate in the presidential election and I am a third time. So I can tell you about the sponsorship system. But in the past, while thanking you, Madam Deputy Minister, for your presence and for distracting from your work on insertion the moments you dedicate to us on behalf of the Government, I regret that it is not Mrs Bachelot, a member of the same government, who is in your place on the bench of ministers, not because of your person, but because she was a member of the committee chaired by Lionel Jospin, former Prime Minister, who spoke on the issue of sponsorships. We have no reason to believe that at the time when she signed the report with Lionel Jospin, with the current first President of the Court of Cassation, with Mr Olivier Schrameck, former Secretary General of the Constitutional Council and former President of the Conseil supérieur de l'audiovisuel, she was then lost, and that she would not say what she was saying today; I'm sure she would. What did she say? The opposite of everything you just told us. First, it is not to know anything but to say that the sponsorship of mayors would be the best democratic control. Why? Because 57% of the mayors who have the power to sign for a nomination are mayors of a municipality of less than 1000 inhabitants and this sponsorship business is a chore for them. Indeed, they know their democratic duty, which leads them to help a particular person to be a candidate in the presidential election, but at the same time they know that often, in the public mind, especially since MM. Valls and Hollande have decided that the Constitutional Council should make public, once a week, the signatures of all the mayors concerned, their signature is confused, which is an act intended to allow democratic debate, with support, which it is not. I would like to remind you from this rostrum: when mayors, councillors-general or Members sign, they make it possible to apply, and that does not mean that they support it. They do so under conditions that are sometimes quite acrobatic. I remember the time when I was a senator and a general advisor – at the time I was cumulating, I then gave up – I signed twice, I could have sponsored two different candidates. At the time, however, I received very firm instructions from the party of which I was a member, the Socialist Party, to sign only for its candidate. On instructions, all the socialist elected representatives of France and Navarre signed for only one candidate. It is their right, I agree, but it creates a bias that everyone has identified, particularly the members of the committee I have just mentioned. As a result, the election begins for some with a period of uncertainty that flatters all ambitions and authorizes conspiracies, scams and combinations of all kinds, to help or prevent this one. This was denounced in 2017 by this mayor of the Vosges whose name I forgot at this moment, but who spoke loud enough to hear it, and it was not the only one. Therefore, it is not true that this is a good filter. [[The Rapporteursupplemented]] Nevertheless, we propose to maintain the possibility that 500 signatures of elected officials will suffice to invest a candidate; We add the possibility for citizens to intervene. You defended, ma'am, the idea that our device would have prevented Mr. Gluckstein from being a candidate. Your concern for Mr. Gluckstein must be a little embarrassing for him, but I understand the spirit. However, Madam, that is not true: he was a candidate precisely thanks to the support of 500 signatures of elected officials, which our text will always allow. Do not act as if you did not know, the sponsorship of elected officials is a rest of the Fourth World. Republic, during which the President of the Republic was appointed by the vote of the great elected officials, including senators, whose mayors formed the electoral base – there was therefore a logic to all this. When General de Gaulle proposed and instituted the election of the President of the Republic by universal suffrage, the procedure was retained, in a way to flatter the notables, to whom it was said at the time to be impossible to withdraw this prerogative. The reasons why it was maintained are perfectly clear, you can read it in Mr Peyrefitte's memoirs. [[The Rapporteursupplemented]] Then, the number of signatures needed was increased, particularly after Mr. Marcel Barbu's application, who came to television, was crying a lot and whose exactness of what he was doing there was not understood. It was felt that this filter would prevent fanciful candidates – note that there is no fanciful candidacy as long as the French people consent to vote for one or another. In any case, it was observed that there were sixteen candidates in 2002, which shows that, if the aim is to filter and block, the procedure does not work – it is not made for that, I have just explained it. Therefore, it is not true that we do not contribute to modernising when we give the floor to the citizens themselves. As I said, our proposal emanates from a commission chaired by Lionel Jospin and composed of personalities who had thought about the problem and knew what they were talking about – I do not give the whole list again, so as not to overwhelm the audience. Where does the figure of 150,000 citizens come from? It is deduced from what exists in other countries. And your argument is not one, Madam Deputy Minister: of course, we are not even finished making fabric masks from now on, but we are still able to count signatures, especially through electronic processes that I am not going to describe in this forum. In any case, Madam, you will go and explain to the Austrians, the Finns, the Lithuanians, the Poles, the Portuguese, the Romanians and the Slovaks that the citizens' signature procedure is worth nothing and that it has not modernised their institutions. I doubt that they will approve of you, and they will certainly have a duty to tell you that the figure of the Jospin Commission corresponds to 0.33% of the electorate and that this standard is practiced elsewhere. Therefore, our proposal is reasonable. Above all, we are trying with this proposal to solve the problem of our institutions. I let you imagine, colleagues, what could happen in our country if, on the model of the last municipal elections – the mayors elected on this occasion are the ones you give the power to decide who has the right to be a candidate in the presidential election – the abstention in a presidential election was 55 per cent in the first round and 58 per cent in the second. Imagine that such a situation occurs for the election, which is the keystone of the entire French institutional system! This would create, as you can see, a totally immeasurable result, which would give nothing good to the country: those who would have to decide would not have the full legitimacy, and those who would have to consent to their orders would not be willing to respect something in which they would not have participated. It would be a sort of breakdown of the political state and of the state itself. It is therefore time to understand that citizen intervention is the one that allows the country to breathe. It will allow all candidates able to collect these 150,000 signatures to present themselves. In the last presidential election, he is not a candidate who did not win 150000 votes in the first round; So they were all perfectly legitimate. Why be afraid to give the word to the people on an issue as important as this one? That's what we don't understand. In the moment when you get used to civic conventions, which are quite estimable, but have no place in the country's institutions, we propose that you modify them at a low cost. But now you don't want it. In essence, this attitude means only one thing: you sit down on the criticisms that were expressed by the extremely pluralistic Jospin Commission. It is by quoting his report that I shall conclude my remarks. "The current arrangements, Bachelot and Jospin wrote, [...] creates uncertainty about the possibility, for some significant currents in the political life of the country, of being represented in the first round of the presidential election." It is the wood at the corner where some expect me at this time, knowing that I am a candidate, although I have already gathered more than 230,000 citizen sponsorships. The Commission says: "Speculations on the possible impossibility, for a person representing a significant political current, to present himself... harm the serenity of the electoral debate". The Commission also says: "Party-backed candidates who do not have an extensive network of elected officials who can sponsor them [which is my case, I specify] must make very important efforts [and, I may add, very important finances] to collect the required signatures. This energy deprives them of time to campaign with voters. » [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] What I have just read to you are the sentences of Mrs Roselyne Bachelot, Mr Lionel Jospin and other members of the Commission on the Renewal and Ethics of Public Life. Since no representative of the Ministry of the Interior or any minister is present – I do not underestimate the rank of delegate minister, I myself have been in a field close to yours, Mrs Klinkert, therefore, do not see anything personal; Since none of the officials responsible for the organisation of the elections is struggling to come before the deputies to discuss such an important subject, I take it that they and their government don't care what the people want.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u34	Mrs Marie-George Buffet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u35	The Fifth Republic is out of breath. The rise in abstention, the loss of confidence in the representatives elected by universal suffrage and in all the bodies constituted, are serious findings for our democracy. Findings that we would be wrong to interpret as a voluntary disinterest of citizens in public affairs. Responsibility is not on their side, but on the political offer and the framework within which it is organized: we must collectively question ourselves, quickly, otherwise we risk seeing forms of expression or exercise of power that are incompatible with our values.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u36	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u37	We have talked a lot about the Republic and its principles in recent months, but what content do we put behind this word? What concrete reality in everyday life? With regard to the text that we are interested in today, what is the regular democratic expression for the men and women of our country? For our part, we believe that the current institutions cannot provide a satisfactory response. Presidentialism has lived; A new democratic era must now be opened. The VIth Republic we are asking for must respond to the emergence of citizen sovereignty, contrary to the concentration of presidential power. This republic, we want it social, guided by the general interest alone. When the state services move away from citizens, others replace them; That is when democracy is in danger. Renewing the institutions means rethinking all this, bringing all citizens closer to the life of the nation. To restore equality between individuals, to reaffirm their freedom and sovereignty wherever they are: that is our ambition and this bill goes in this direction. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] We need an institutional renewal, a guarantee of democratic renewal and the central place of our compatriots at the heart of the research and construction of the common good. Universal suffrage is an essential means of expression, but other forms of expression and participation in public life must now be added. Democracy must be exercised everywhere: in the company, in the association, in the union, in the party, in the street, in the commune, as at national level. To do so, it is time to work towards the advent of a sixth republic by establishing a constituent assembly. Let us not be afraid of collective intelligence, let us trust popular education and deliberative democracy to renew our institutions! When some feel no remorse at lowering the role of Parliament, we reaffirm our willingness to give it all its prerogatives back, because no democracy can function without strong representative democracy. The proposal for an organic law presented by our colleagues in France is a first stone to an ambitious democratic edifice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u38	There!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u39	Citizen sponsorship in presidential elections is a tool for citizens to express their support for a political project. To establish a citizen sponsorship, so that presidential candidates can address them in advance, seems to me to be in the direction of a democratic renewal. It was in this spirit that Lionel Jospin and his commission imagined it in 2012, as Jean-Luc Mélenchon pointed out. The conditions for collecting sponsorships, as proposed, are flexible enough to respect existing political balances and to avoid any significant movement. To limit the number of applications should not, in my view, be the objective of this proposed organic law. Attached to political pluralism, a symbol of the vigour of democracy and the richness of the debates between the various sensitivities, we do not want to reduce the number of applications, but simply to give them a citizen base. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] The group of France insoubted presents us with a proposal for a law that allows us collectively to carry out an interesting reflection on the sovereignty of the people and their representation: let us know how to deal with it. The Group of the Democratic and Republican Left will support this proposal for an organic law.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u40	Mr. Thomas Rudigoz has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u41	We can share part of the observation proposed by our colleague Corbière and the group La France insoumée. Undeniably, there is a mistrust of the system and of the politicians, whatever they may be, in some of our fellow citizens. That is why it is important to seriously consider any proposal aimed at bringing about a change, however essential it may be, in the procedure for running for office in the presidential election. In the present case, the aim is to establish a system of sponsorship by at least 150,000 citizens, not exclusive to the current system of sponsorship by 500 elected representatives, with a criterion of geographical representation. This text calls for several formal and substantive reservations. First reserve: the risk of upsetting the calendar as a presidential election approaches. First of all, the text poses a problem because of its temporality and its proximity to the 2022 vote. We have one principle: not to question the fundamentals of electoral law or to bring about political upheavals within one year of the presidential elections. It may also be noted that the timetable for sponsorships is even more tense, since the deadline for receipt is the sixth Friday before the first round of voting. The La France group, through our colleague, Bastien Lachaud, had also joined the majority on this principle when the draft organic law on the election of the President of the Republic was discussed, when the Government had proposed an amendment on advance voting. Any substantial change in electoral law could therefore be seen as a political manoeuvre, which would cause the exact opposite of what this text aims for, and perhaps increase – certainly – the mistrust. In these troubled times, democratic life needs stability; This does not prevent us from thinking about improving it in the long term. This is also the objective of the working group set up a few weeks ago by the Chair of the Law Committee, whose hearings begin today and will be public. Second reservation: the proposed arrangement would pose major operational difficulties in a very short period of time. The principle of sponsorship of at least 500 elected officials is unique and reserved for the presidential election. In addition to the mobilization of many human resources, the verification procedure is extensive. Several steps are planned to ensure the validity of a sponsorship and, in case of doubt, the teams often contact the elected representatives by telephone, to inform them that there is a missing room – the seal of a town hall, for example, or a signature – in order to recover it. If doubt persists, it is the sages of the Constitutional Council who meet and settle. Although this is a small proportion, the Constitutional Council has sometimes invalidated sponsorships. We can see the difficulty of validating the authenticity of hundreds of thousands of citizen sponsorships – perhaps more than a million – with an immeasurable organizational evolution in so short a time. However, this leads to another topic: digital citizenship. It would, among other things, speed up and improve the authentication of sponsorships or participation in online voting. This type of device would be an extremely interesting prerequisite. Otherwise, we risk a situation in which a large number of candidates would reach the proposed threshold, without stable and reliable authentication. In the end, it is a risk to the sincerity of the vote that we cannot take. The third reservation: the proposal, which is interesting in substance, raises real political difficulties. Your proposals raise a deep political debate: how can we put the citizen back at the heart of the democratic game? How can we restore the desire to vote? How can we combat the mistrust of the political class as a whole? You are indeed following the Jospin Commission's proposal, with the idea of better integrating our citizens into the electoral process, although they are sovereign, no matter what, through universal suffrage. Recall that 150,000 citizens are just under 0.3% of the population of voting age; 500 elected are 1.2 per cent of elected candidates. Since the 150000 threshold is easier to reach, there is a risk of inflation in the number of applications. Everyone knows that our fellow citizens are rarely in favour of this phenomenon, which is detrimental to the readability of the political offer. The Jospin Commission's report, which analyses the 500 signature system, is cited in the explanatory memorandum: this system does not protect against the risk of too many applications. All right. The presence of sixteen candidates in the first round of the 2002 presidential election was a serious warning in this regard. But overlaying your system with 150,000 signatures will only make this phenomenon worse. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Last difficulty, from the bottom: you will overlay two systems that will coexist. The resulting risk is the competition for legitimacy between candidates, depending on whether they come from either system. However, one of the cardinal principles of the presidential election is the uniqueness of the rules for all candidates, whatever they may be. Despite the interest of this debate, these deep reservations will lead the La République group to vote against this proposed organic law.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u42	Mr Paul Molac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u43	Since 1965, each presidential campaign has been preceded by the period of collection of signatures. This filtering system must be skillfully proportionate in order to allow a sufficient number of candidates to present themselves and represent the widest possible range of opinions across the country. The proposal for an organic law incorporates a proposal from the Commission on the renovation and ethics of public life chaired by Lionel Jospin: a citizen sponsorship procedure for the presidential election in parallel with the procedure of sponsorship by the elected officials. The threshold of 150000 citizens is interesting in some respects. In recent years, the feeling of distrust of elected officials and, more generally, of elites and institutions has increased alarmingly: massive abstention, yellow vests, contestation of authority, etc. The citizen sponsorship procedure would make it possible to involve citizens more closely and could also improve participation in the presidential election. It would be a way, if not to reenchant politics – let's not be naive – at least to make it a little more interesting. The current system of sponsorship by elected officials is a hindrance for political figures who are outside the parties. I am thinking of Jean Lassalle, representative of the rural community, who defends his life: his candidacy says something about our country, but it is difficult for him to gather the 500 sponsorships of local elected officials. This citizens' procedure would give a wider expression to the whole political spectrum. Finally, it could be a small step towards more participatory democracy – the election time would last longer – and contribute to the politicization of citizens and their awareness of public affairs. However, the Libertés et territoires group has some concerns about the progress of the procedure and its possible implications for our society of the show and the permanent buzz. First of all, this citizen sponsorship scheme seems difficult to frame. We wonder about the risk of buying sponsorships or putting pressure on voters to get them. This system also risks giving a bonus to well-known and well-established candidates or media personalities, to the detriment of political currents who would not have access to this media exhibition. I am, of course, thinking of regionalist currents. Indeed, the media and the political system are very centralized, their concerns often concern Paris rather than the peripheries.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u44	Exactly! He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u45	Finally, it should be stressed that the current system places local elected representatives in the process of sponsoring candidates: 57 per cent of the elected officials are mayors of communes with less than 1000 inhabitants. Very rarely incarcerated, they are almost not sensitive to pressure from political parties.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u46	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u47	To put it clearly, they don't care. Even the presidents of communities of communes do not have enough weight to force a mayor to sponsor a candidate, or to prevent it. In any case, this is not the case with us.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u48	Not in our neighborhoods!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u49	Last but not least, we can fear the validation of fanciful candidatures, personalities who would stand for the show, at the risk of compromising the quality of the democratic debate. There is no danger that citizens will spontaneously trust a candidate, such as a presenter, who is particularly well placed in Paris' small media microcosm. He played something like this in Donald Trump's election. The media spectacle of permanent controversy would go beyond the substance of the debate. [[Smile on the banks of the groupsDemetAgirens]] The mechanism that you propose would oppose the primary system, which large political families, namely the left and the right, use to nominate a candidate for the presidential election. Today, the difficulty is overwhelming, since we will necessarily have an extreme right candidate, opposed to a single candidate, from the right or the left – or from the middle, let's know! I could complain to you that the threshold of 150,000 citizens could be met by a national representativeness clause, or, I should say, by an anti-regionalist clause. Thus, your scheme would not smooth out the pitfall of the same clause in the 500-sponsorship procedure. Coming from your political formation, I am not surprised. If you defend political plurality, go to the end and give this political current, well present in several regions, the same means of access to presidential candidacy as the other currents. [[Applause on the benches of the LR and Dem groups]] Finally, the Libertés et territoires group understands the reasons why you are presenting this text today, even if it is the practice that we do not change the modalities of a vote one year before the election. I only know too much that it is not obvious to have a law passed or to present new ideas when the parliamentary niches are reduced to the congruent portion. Your proposal opens an interesting debate; It challenges us as to how to resolve the democratic crisis that we are going through. However, given the various reservations we have expressed, we will not follow you on the path you are proposing. To address the crisis of distrust in our society, we need to rethink the democratic system more broadly, transferring more power to our territories and moving away from the "super-presidentialization" of the electoral system.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u50	Mrs Blandine Brocard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u51	The sponsorship procedure is a decisive step in determining the candidates for the presidential election. While we fully share your ambition to give the French all the means to participate in the democratic life of the country, we do not believe that the introduction of citizen sponsorship would have a significant impact on the participation of our compatriots in democratic life or on the political offer of the presidential election. The interesting exchanges we had in committee revealed that we are aware of the fragility of the electoral system and that we are all willing to improve and strengthen it. They will have allowed us to reflect and question the procedure of sponsorship by elected officials. Of course, we cannot deny that it has some imperfections, but this mechanism has its place in our system. In 1962, when the election of the President of the Republic by direct universal suffrage was introduced, a system of filtering was established, in order to prevent anyone from being able to stand, since it would inevitably have had the effect of discrediting the presidential election, its results and the authority of the elected president. General de Gaulle, who spoke on this subject, was fundamentally concerned that "a personality free of partisan attachment, without any support apparatus [...] would have a chance to run for the vote"; However, he added: "It is necessary to avoid the energy which will throw the trouble". The procedure in force therefore allows this. However, it has certain imperfections, the main one perhaps being to place the candidates in an unequal position, between those who have a network of elected representatives thanks to their political party, and those who have to pick up the sponsorships one by one. This is why several changes have been made to the mechanism since the law of 6 November 1962, always with the objective of allowing a better readability of the vote and avoiding a scattering of votes. The system will certainly continue to evolve. However, this procedure also has fundamental merits: by entrusting sponsorship responsibility to citizens in elected office, it is an effective filter, without calling into question the principle of direct universal suffrage. It reconciles the clarity of the vote with the diversity of the political offer. Ladies and gentlemen, as you certainly know, the elected representatives who sponsor them most are the mayors, but the choices of the mayors are in some respects similar to the choices of the citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u52	It's a fight!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u53	A 2017 study shows that they choose their candidate on the basis of the same criteria that their electors use to determine their vote. This is all the more true of the mayors of the rural communes – we have talked a lot about it. Most often without a political label, they are the main guarantors of the existence of a large number of applications. You rightly pointed out this, Mr Corbière, but unlike you, I do not think they are under the pressure you mentioned, as Mr Molac has explained very well. The same 2017 study shows, for example, that without these rural mayors, there would have been only four candidates in the 2017 presidential election: Emmanuel Macron, François Fillon, Jean-Luc Mélenchon and Benoît Hamon. So yes, we need rural mayors and, contrary to what Mr Mélenchon said earlier, it is not a chore for them: they have a great idea of their responsibility. I don't have your political experience, dear sir, but I worked...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u54	Worked!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u55	... several years for the Association des mayores rurales de France and I know how important it is for them. Moreover, the absence of a citizen sponsorship procedure can be considered offset by the very large number of rural communes in our country. I could object to the merger of municipalities and the development of intercommunalities, but far from reducing the number of elected officials, they reinforce the sponsorship system that prevails today. For the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats, this system retains its full legitimacy, despite criticisms and expectations of change, including this proposal for an organic law. As you mentioned, the citizen sponsorship procedure has already been considered in the past, without ever succeeding, simply because it does not bring about any improvement. The current system allows the French to have a real debate, pluralistic and of quality; it does not disproportionately limit the number of candidates, but it avoids having candidates guided solely by personal promotion purposes. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem and LT groups]] We therefore do not see what added value the citizen sponsorship system would bring. Even if it remains perfectable, we believe in the current system, so we will vote against your proposed organic law.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u56	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u57	The proposal for an organic law on the introduction of the sponsorship of a presidential candidate by 150,000 citizens, tabled by our colleagues La France insoumée, has a strong political stake. As former member of the Constitutional Council Jean-Claude Colliard said: "That the appointment of the President of the Republic, since the 1962 revision, depends directly on the vote of voters is a well-established dogma in our political life. But to say so without nuances is to forget a little quickly that the vote is necessarily determined by the political offer, in other words the list of candidates admitted to the competition. This framework raises questions about the number and quality of sponsors, and advertising. The number is that proposed by the Commission on the Renewal and Ethics of Public Life, chaired by Mr Lionel Jospin in 2012. She said that "citizens should now be able to directly empower candidates for the major election in the country's political life." It should be recalled that the report of the Reflection and Proposal Committee on the Modernization and Rebalancing of the Institutions of the Fifth Republic, created a few years earlier by President Nicolas Sarkozy and chaired by Édouard Balladur, had considered that "the current system of sponsorships has lived." The committee proposed that only those candidates who had obtained the signature of a specified proportion of the registered voters should be able to run for the presidential election. Other proposals had envisaged a threshold of 500,000 sponsorships. We are still far from the number chosen at the time of the 2008 reform for the referendum of popular initiative, a threshold that the same Jean-Claude Colliard called unrealistic. Many reflections and observations were therefore made. There are arguments in favour of the text. Indeed, we are the only country where the election of the President of the Republic by universal suffrage takes place with a system of sponsorship of elected officials. It is true that this is a legacy of the time when the President was elected by an enlarged college from 1958 to 1962. Until 1976, the required number of sponsorships was set at 100. The failure of the 1976 reform to prevent the multiplication of candidatures by the system of sponsorship of elected officials is a fact. As Professor Dominique Rousseau says: "The mechanism did not have the desired effect. Especially as there is an inability to accommodate popular candidates who are out of the system or who are linked to formations with few elected officials. To answer this last criticism, we could certainly imagine an alternative system, consisting of allowing an elected one to give two voices: one to the candidate whose ideas he shares, the other to the candidate whose participation in the public debate he considers necessary. The opposing arguments are also strong. This system goes against the primarys organized to the right and left to determine a candidacy for assembly. Of course, the United States system has many disadvantages, but there are primary elections. In the last elections, in 2020, the turnout has been highest since 1900. It should be noted that the primary system in the United States is organised both by the parties and by the federated units, which are called the Member States there; large variations may exist between States. This enthusiasm for "primary", elsewhere and here, shows that citizens are ready to engage in participatory practices. This also requires candidates to meet their own commitments. It should therefore be considered that a primary system is likely to ensure a high level of participation. The small parties have criticized the scheme we are looking at, because the threshold remains high, especially compared to other countries. In Portugal, less than 10,000 sponsorships are required for 10 million people. Finally, this proposal strongly raises questions of the control of sponsorships by the Constitutional Council and of the effectiveness of citizens' choice. I think that if the State and the Government put the package, if you allow me to express it, on digital identity, we would consider the development of digital citizen voting from a new perspective. As it stands, the elected representatives transmit the sponsorship themselves. This refers to the issue of sponsorship advertising, effective since 2016. Finally, we are in favour of the proposal, because it is a good measure,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u58	Oh, good!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u59	[[Applause on the SOC benches. – Marie-George Buffet also applauds]] ... which will contribute to greater accountability of citizens who have the legal status of voters. However, I find it surprising that the sponsors are not known: this point needs to be changed. Anonymity is not a necessity, it could even lead to unconstitutionality. In any event, the proposal meets the requirement of transparency that public opinion shows for the public and that it must be taken into account for the future.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u60	Mr Thomas Gassilloud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u61	If I have not followed the debates in committee, I am responsible for conveying to you the position of the Group of the European People's Party on the proposal for an organic law establishing a citizens' sponsorship procedure for the presidential election, which is intended to confer directly on the citizens a political nomination capacity, in the same way as on the elected ones. This idea is not new, since it has already been mentioned by several former candidates and by reflection committees, such as the Balladur Committee initiated by Nicolas Sarkozy, or the commission chaired by Lionel Jospin at the time of François Hollande's presidency. But citizen sponsorship presented technical difficulties and was never adopted. In the era of direct democracy, the reinvention of the link between politics and the citizen, as well as social networks, instantaneity and the information deluge, our Assembly must today decide on the issue of citizen sponsorship. From an ideological point of view, this system might bring politics closer to citizens and strengthen participatory democracy. However, from an empirical point of view, it should not be forgotten that this system carries with it an exacerbated risk of populist drift. At a time when 68% of French people are informed on the Internet, where Facebook remains the first social network used by our compatriots to disseminate information, the legislator must question itself. In the society of instantness, of virality, where the blogger acts as a journalist, where informational singing becomes a space for confrontation of powers, we must not make ourselves enter the sheepfold. The unprecedented capacities for the rapid dissemination of information, the virtual impossibility of identifying the primary broadcaster and the crisis of political confidence experienced by our democracies devalue the public discourse, going so far as to relativize the very notion of truth, forcing us to approach this problem with trembling hands. Moreover, the implementation of such a system is problematic, in particular because the Constitutional Council is too short to verify the totality of the 150,000 signatures or more. Moreover, it requires an anonymisation of the signatory citizens. However, if the explanatory memorandum refers to such an approach, it does not appear in the legal framework. Folk or alternative candidates are present at each election in France: the barrier of 500 signatures of elected officials, unanonymized, allows them not to pass. We cannot, however, simply invoke the populist risk. We need to reinvent the means to make politics, to involve the citizen more, and to make nation. Only in this way will the nobility of politics regain control of its abjured counterpart by the French: political politics. The proposed organic law before us thus addresses a profound subject, which we must look at in the face, but proposes a treatment that does not seem appropriate or potentially dangerous to us. That is why the Group of the European People's Party will vote against this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u62	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u63	You propose to modify the rules of sponsorship in the presidential election, by introducing, in conjunction with the sponsorship of the elected representatives – 500 signatures distributed in 30 different departments –,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u64	Jointly, not concurrently!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u65	Alternatively. ... citizen sponsorships, i.e. 150,000 signatures. You are basing yourself on the observation, which can be widely shared on all the benches of the Chamber, of a crisis of democracy, leading a large number of our fellow citizens to move away from democratic life more and more, whether it is local democratic life – I am thinking of the lack of participation in elections, and the difficulties sometimes encountered by municipal teams to form and sustain themselves – or of the significant distrust towards national political life and its elected officials. In support of this proposal, you make a no less legitimate criticism, which consists of saying that the system of sponsorships of elected officials is a form of reminiscence of the Fourth Republic,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u66	There!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u67	... which provided for the election of the President of the Republic without holding to the path of universal suffrage. Such a sponsorship system can also sometimes be a hindrance to candidatures of personalities who, in spite of everything, represent, if not a current of political life, at least an offer of renewal for French political life. First of all, you consider that citizen sponsorship would encourage the reconnection of our fellow citizens and the people to political life, by calling, to a certain extent, for popular sovereignty. Maybe I'm answering, but maybe I'm not. There is nothing to say that allowing citizen sponsorships will lead to a return to the confidence of our fellow citizens in democratic life, or a decline in abstention. Although the proposed arrangement is alternative – either citizen sponsorships or the sponsorship of elected officials – it reflects a form of competition between the sovereignty of the people and that of elected officials, who are nevertheless representatives of universal suffrage.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u68	No! It's not written in this spirit at all!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u69	However, one can wonder about the criticism that you seem to be making about the sponsorships of elected officials: I do not sue you for wanting to replace them with another type of sponsorship,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u70	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u71	... since precisely, this is not what you propose,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u72	There! It's not a substitute!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u73	...but I still wonder about that. I come to the question of whether these citizens' sponsorships would allow candidates, who are currently prevented by the filter of the elected representatives, to be candidates. Why does a mayor refuse to give or not sponsor a candidate? First of all, a number of colleagues have pointed out that a very large number of mayors, especially rural mayors, do not have a political affiliation, even if they may have a sensitivity: they are therefore not obliged to sponsor the candidate representing their political family. Sometimes, too, they choose not to sponsor anyone so that it does not cause difficulties in their city council, made up of elected officials of various tendencies. At last, they sometimes have an apprehension about an application representing an extreme ideology, constituting a problem in their own commune. I am not sure that the system of citizen sponsorship solves all the difficulties associated with the sponsorship of elected officials. However, we consider that your proposal can provide flexibility,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u74	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u75	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] ...reason for which the IDU and independent group will not oppose it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u76	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u77	Mr Ian Boucard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u78	We are meeting this morning to discuss the proposal for an organic law, tabled within the framework of the niche of the group La France insoumée, aimed at establishing a procedure of citizen sponsorships for the candidature for the presidential election, in addition to the procedure of sponsorships by the elected officials, which is currently in force. The conditions for being a candidate in the presidential election are currently laid down in article 3 of the Act of 6 November 1962 on the election of the President of the Republic by universal suffrage. In the present case, it is essential for the candidate to be of French nationality, to be over 18 years of age, to be able to enjoy his civil and political rights, and in no case to be incapacitated under the law. In addition, the current system is based on the need to obtain the sponsorship of a number of elected officials. In order to combat the multiplication of candidates in this election, which has undoubtedly become the most central in our political life, if we consider participation far greater than that of any other election, the law has increased the number of sponsorships to 500. This filtering system has thus made it possible to exclude so-called fanciful or witness applications, the sole purpose of which is to make known a personality or the categorical interests it defends. More than 45,000 local elected officials are thus entitled to sponsor candidates who wish to run for the presidential election. A national representativeness clause was included in the Act of 6 November 1962. Finally, each elected candidate can sponsor only one candidate and his or her choice is irrevocable. This sponsorship procedure for candidates is under the control of the Constitutional Council, which establishes the sponsorship form, is the recipient of the form, and verifies its validity. This proposal for an organic law complements this system of sponsorship by elected officials. All the provisions that it foresees have already been formulated in 2012, on the occasion of the presentation of the report "For a Democratic Renewal", resulting from the work of the Commission on the Renewal and Ethics of Public Life chaired by former Prime Minister Lionel Jospin. This text aims to enable the candidate to obtain the right to run for the presidential election through the sponsorship of citizens, with every candidate in the election having to gather 150,000 supporters from citizens on the electoral lists, who, as is the case for the sponsorship of elected officials, come from at least 30 different departments and overseas communities. Various possibilities could be created for citizens to sponsor the candidate of their choice, knowing that every citizen could sponsor only one candidate, on the one hand, by means of an official form sent to the Constitutional Council by post, and, on the other hand, by electronic means or on a digital platform put online by the administration. It is expected that each sponsorship will be counted anonymously without publication of the sponsor's identity. The question we must ask ourselves is the usefulness of such a mechanism and its possible implementation. The commission chaired by Lionel Jospin noted that several currents of thought in political life encountered difficulties in finding the 500 sponsors of elected officials needed to present a candidate. We all have in mind the chronic difficulty encountered by Jean-Marie Le Pen in obtaining these 500 famous sponsorships, especially in 2002, when he qualified, to the astounding general, for the second round of presidential elections. Is it normal that, in our country, a current of thought cannot be represented, while millions of French people are ready to vote for the candidate who incarnates it? The answer is obviously no. If I fight the far right and the far left represented by France, it is imperative that these currents of thought can have a candidate, to let the citizens decide. However, while some candidates have encountered difficulties in obtaining the 500 sponsorships, I have not been able to find any significant trends of thought since the establishment of the universal suffrage election, which ultimately could not be represented in the presidential election. The one of 2017 is particularly enlightening. The extreme right was represented and competed with a sovereignist candidate and a favourable candidate for the Frexit; Jean Lassalle competed as an independent candidate, as did Mr. Chemade. No fewer than five candidates representing all the tendencies of the left were in the running: Mr Macron, who finally won the presidential election, but also an unsubstantiated candidate, a socialist, a Trotskyist and a Marxist. The candidate of the Republican right was of course also present. So the sponsorship filter doesn't seem to me to be so excluding. I do not go back to the difficulties of implementing such a mechanism in the time allotted, as my colleagues' speeches have highlighted very well. Therefore, why such a proposal for an organic law? If we can only support the will of the La France group to give the people the floor, we must not allow the sponsorship of local elected officials to be carried out by notables, as some members of this group have mentioned. These remarks, to say the least clumsy, ignore the proximity link between local elected officials and citizens, who elect them and respect them. The mayors of the rural communes might also be surprised to be qualified as notables by deputies and by some people who have held all possible positions in the Fifth Republic. Such a way of opposing the French against those who represent them is not respectable. In reality, the present text, which takes up a proposal from the declared candidate of France unsolicited in the presidential election, is a form of political marketing aimed at making up the mess, for the next presidential election, between the communists, who have many local elected officials, and the unsolicited, under a varnish of participatory democracy. The modalities of the presidential election, which is central to our democracy, cannot be changed for bad reasons, one year before the vote. Thus, the text does not seem to bring real democratic progress, and we will not support it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u79	The general discussion is closed. The next speaker is the alternate rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u80	[[Smile. – Applause on the benches of the FI group]] I'm sorry I raised my hand a little late, Mr. Chairman: I'm not used to reporting texts, but it may be more frequent next year... [[Smile]] [[Smile]] Thank you to all those who spoke: the debate is open. Thank you to all those who supported us, starting with Mrs Buffet, who, on behalf of the GDR Group, supported the text in a very active and highly reasoned way. Thank you also to the representative of the Socialist Group, Mrs Karamanli, who, albeit in a weighted manner, also supported us. I note in passing that you are sensitive to the idea of rallies: if I were teasing, I would notice that in the municipal elections in your commune, you considered that the candidate of your party nevertheless deserved that you stood against him... Sometimes things are more complicated on the ground than in the Chamber! What is valid for Le Mans could be valid for the whole country, if you love your city! Many speakers, including you, the minister delegate, have said: the observation is shared, but above all, let us not do anything! All right. That's a problem! Madam Deputy Minister, you have raised technical questions: we could not verify a million signatures. But it seems to me that on the occasion of the joint initiative referendum on the privatisation of the Aéroports de Paris group, the Constitutional Council has checked 480,000 signatures from the first eighteen days of the procedure! What has been successful in a referendum could probably be successful in a presidential election.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u81	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u82	It therefore does not seem to me that this argument holds. Some also boasted the proximity of the elected ones to the people, which they represent: would they therefore be more representative than the people themselves? Go understand! I repeat that it is not for us to abolish the sponsorship by the elected representatives, but to create another way, which would complement and enrich the former. Mr Rudigoz was concerned about the coexistence of two ways of gaining access to the candidature: but yes, my dear colleague, in the same way as those who sponsor the candidates are not all elected in the same way! Some elected representatives are elected by a two-round majority vote, such as MPs, others by proportional vote, such as regional councillors, and others by indirect vote, such as senators. It might be considered that not all of these elected officials are valid, or rather do not have the same representativeness. You're not talking about it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u83	There you go!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u84	This argument is therefore no more important than the previous one. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] Mr Molac, you find in me an original sin of jacobinism: I would like to prevent regional applications. But this is still a presidential election, which concerns the whole of France! I hope that a regionalist candidate would like to speak to the whole country; If not, I would rather invite him to stand for the regional elections. If his program didn't match the election, it would be embarrassing... If they exist, regionalists, or at least those who support decentralization, will at least have to present a project that speaks to all our fellow citizens. This purely rhetorical argument, therefore, does not hold either. Mr Boucard, for the Republican Group, finds the proposal for an organic law interesting, believes that all currents should be able to present a candidate; He also said – after having explained that no candidacy had finally been prevented – that if we want to debate this proposal now, it is because Jean-Luc Mélenchon will encounter difficulties in presenting himself next year. We're unmasked! But, colleague, this is proof that our system poses a problem: unless you consider that Jean-Luc Mélenchon does not represent anything, which I do not believe, it must be admitted that a current as representative as that of La France insoumé, even if you fight it, does not yet have a mesh of elected officials – I do not call them notables.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u85	I'm sure you'll get those sponsorships!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u86	This situation must lead us to consider that Jean-Luc Mélenchon, like other candidates perhaps, should have a way of running for the presidential election by addressing the citizens. "Fantastic candidatures" were mentioned. I do not like this term: anyone, supported by 150,000 people, who presents himself before the voters, is not fanciful – unless he despises these 150,000 supporters. It is up to the sovereign people to decide not on the fantasy of an application, but on its representativeness. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] The problem, we are also told, is the "media candidate". Let's talk about it! I am thinking of a candidate who was the subject of more than 8,000 articles during 2016, while Jean-Luc Mélenchon, Benoît Hamon, Arnaud Montebourg had only 7,000 articles: this candidate is Emmanuel Macron. He was helped by the media, but was he a media candidate? Maybe, but I don't think so; In any case he was elected, and judged by many here worthy of support. Combating the weight of the media in the presidential election, questioning the favour accorded to a particular candidate about the number of dedicated to one or the other, is an important cause: we are ready to address this issue. For example, we have proposed the establishment of ethics boards for the press. To what extent is the presidential debate, and its extremely personal nature, now crushed by media held by private interests? This is a major issue. But of grace, remember the watered sprinkler: I affirm, the media candidate, in 2017, it was indeed Mr Emmanuel Macron, assisted by private press groups! It is precisely in order to prevent presidential candidates from being filtered first by private interests that we should be able to address the citizens directly – not, I repeat, to criticize the elected representatives, but to open another way. Madam Deputy Minister, you have also probably talked about candidates who would not have been able to run. Jean-Luc Mélenchon mentioned the case of Daniel Gluckstein, who may listen to us, but also that of Pierre Boussel. In 1988, Pierre Boussel, dit Lambert, had my support. It was a very modest application; he had received 0.38% of the vote. It will make some smile... but we defended ideas, criticism of the Fifth Republic, small things like that. But precisely, the bulk of this campaign, in which I participated, was dedicated to going to the province, to our cars, with our private funds, to tour these "small mayors". I was a young student, I was about twenty years old, and I was going to see people who told us that they were only available between eighteen and nineteen hours because the rest of the time, they were at work... Going to them, just going to them, was very difficult. We spent almost a year, not campaigning, but collecting the 500 signatures that would make the candidacy possible. This argument shows precisely that this filter of elected officials obliges political parties to devote time, money, energy to this collection of signatures when they could lead campaign towards our fellow citizens. We propose opening up a path that would be easier for those with popular support: this is the heart of the discussion. This is not the only problem of the institutions of the Fifth Republic: our criticism is much deeper. However, in the upcoming election, the risk of an anti-democratic filter does exist, whether you want it or not. It is not out of contempt, but out of respect for the elected ones, that we make this proposal, because many of those called small elected ones, that is, elected from small communes, are under pressure. This could be a problem for those who are real Republicans, by the way: they were not elected by saying who they would support; support for a presidential candidate is a personal choice, often based on criteria related to the taste for pluralism. And, yes, they are under pressure. Naïve the one who believes that the decision to install equipment is taken by the community of agglomeration in a perfectly calm and serene way, if the mayor comes to support a candidate who would not suit the president!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u87	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u88	Yes, I do! That's the truth. You can protest, you never collected 500 signatures...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u89	You're falling wrong, I made this collection!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u90	[[Exclaims]] I didn't know MODEM was having any difficulties... Look, really, that's not the point. I assure you, I have experienced these difficulties, like many others. [[Exclaims on the banks of the Dem Group]] If you believe that today mayors can easily obtain resources for their commune, you are mistaken, you do not know the political life. Some who may not have read our proposed organic law correctly accused us of trying to prevent elected officials from sponsoring candidates. They will retain this prerogative; What we only want is to give the people the floor as well. I find it pungent that you consider that the best connoisseurs of the will of the people are the chosen ones, rather than the people themselves. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] I hope that, in the heat of the debate, we will finally convince you and that the text will eventually be adopted.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u91	Remarkable demonstration!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u92	It's demagogy!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u93	I now call the single article of the proposed organic law in the text originally before the House, since the committee has not adopted a text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u94	Mr M'jid El Guerrab has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u95	I thank my friends, in particular Alexis Corbière, for opening a real debate. I feel that this day is going to be exciting, because we will be able to exchange substantive arguments. The question here is that of the presidential election. I wrote last year – at the worst moment, since it was released last March – a 300-page book on Parliament's place in our institutions, and by ricochet on that of the presidential election. Today, the latter carries everything; It's overwhelming. Working on how those who campaign are chosen is therefore essential. It is not a partisan question, it is a question of the left or of the right, but a question of substance on which everyone has their own feelings. I tell you with the utmost honesty: I agree with you, Mr alternate rapporteur, even if I belong to a group that is not. When I remember how Jean Lassalle, who belongs to my former group, rowed to find 500 sponsors, I think there is a real problem here. It is a reflection that began a long time ago: the Jospin Commission was mentioned; I would like to recall the thoughts of the Balladur committee, which had also proposed another method of appointing the candidates. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] I shall vote for this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u96	On the deletion amendments Nos 1, 4 and 14, I have received a request for a public vote from the La France group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr Erwan Balanant has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u97	This proposal for an organic law raises interesting questions; These discussions are necessary. Is it hard today to be a candidate for the presidency of the Republic? Yes. It is not illogical: it is the highest function of the State. But, like Ian Boucard, I will ask: were political currents banned from election in 2017? I don't think so. From Mr. Cheminade to Mr. Lassalle, the spectrum was wide; All the major parties that wished to do so were represented. Our country has some 35,000 mayors, 577 deputies, 348 senators, not to mention the departmental and regional councillors: that is the world! I say again: that it is difficult to be a candidate in the presidential election, it does not bother me. Not everyone can be a candidate! When it comes to pressure on elected officials, it is a pretext, a false problem. That's not the right argument! The idea of introducing citizen sponsorships seems interesting to me, provided that they complement and do not replace the sponsorships by the elected representatives. One could even impose the obligation to combine the two types of sponsorships. [[Exclaims on FI banks]] But what will prevent me from voting on your text is the question of anonymity. We cannot support a candidate for the presidency of the Republic anonymously! The vote is anonymous, of course. But sponsorship is something else. Otherwise, we go into the policy of click, of 2.0. The citizen sponsorship process must not be anonymous.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u98	That was the case once, though!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u99	It's not a "I love" on an Instagram photo! That is why I will not vote for this text. He's interesting, but he's not done.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u100	We come to the amendments. I have before me three identical amendments, Nos 1, 4 and 14, to delete the single article. I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u101	I have indeed tabled an amendment to delete the single article, because if your proposal for an organic law is interesting, it does not seem to me to be successful. I have had the opportunity to say so in committee, but unfortunately my amendments have not been adopted. The system of citizen sponsorships is interesting, but not enough. We know that, at present, candidates in the presidential election must receive the sponsorship of 500 elected representatives: it is the filter that has been chosen to guarantee the seriousness of a candidate. It is very binding – it has been recalled – but not insurmountable, attests to the number of candidates in the past presidential elections: eleven in 2017, ten in 2012, twelve in 2007 – I also said it in committee. It seems to me important that the candidates be supported by these actors in the field, namely mayors, who know the local issues they have to deal with on a daily basis. That being said, I will withdraw this amendment, because if it were adopted – and I fear that this is the case with the same amendments – we could not consider the following and the debate could not take place. In this respect, one of my other amendments – which will probably not be discussed – aims to establish a mixed system: instead of having to collect 500 sponsorships of elected officials or 150,000 sponsorships of citizens in order to be able to present themselves, it would be necessary to collect 200 sponsorships of elected officials and 150,000 sponsorships of citizens. Such a mixed system seems interesting to me in that it would make the filter of the sponsorships of elected officials less binding and would be enriched by citizen sponsorships. Unlike others, I do not underestimate the pressures that can put on local elected officials: they exist and we must not hide our face. It therefore seems to me that we should move towards a mixed system for the future. With that in mind, I withdraw my amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u102	Ian Boucard, in support of Amendment No. 4.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u103	[["Yes! "on the banks of the LaREM Group]] My colleague Fabien Di Filippo's amendment is being defended. I wish to take this opportunity to respond to your comments, Mr. Corbière. Like you, I believe that Jean-Luc Mélenchon must be able to be a candidate in the presidential election – as I said earlier, we agree on this point. However, I am confident that it will be able to do so under the current sponsorship system.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u104	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u105	And if I were an unsub, I would have trusted his oratorial abilities, which we all know, to convince 500 elected officials.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u106	There! Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u107	I would add that the mayors and local elected representatives must be trusted. If candidates from small parties, who sometimes represented minority thinking in our country, were able to run for a presidential election, it was because the mayors and local elected officials, in their wisdom, supported them without voting for them. It should not be suggested that the mayors of rural communes are under pressure from the presidents of inter-communities or are tied feet and fists. The casting of the last presidential elections proves exactly the opposite. Our elected representatives are of great wisdom and wish that all the currents of political thought be represented so that their fellow citizens can express themselves. [[Brigitte Kuster applauds]] So you see that I fully agree with you. Mr Mélenchon must be able to be a candidate in the presidential election, if only for me to have the pleasure of fighting your ideas, with which I disagree.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u108	Thank you.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u109	Amendment No 14 by Mrs Patricia Mirallès is being defended. What is the Committee's opinion on the deletion amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u110	I am, of course, opposed to the deletion of the single article, because that would be tantamount to deleting the text. In response to what has been said about anonymity, I recall that before the 2012 presidential election, the sponsorship of elected officials was anonymous. I don't think we were in a "democracy 2.0," as I heard.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u111	It wasn't the same!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u112	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] We want anonymity, not Twitter accounts behind which we would not know who is. The signatures would go back to the Constitutional Council, which would be responsible for verifying them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u113	It's called pseudonymat!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u114	[[Applause from the FI Group's banks]] Let's be precise. The people I want to pick up with this text belong to the popular circles. Who can believe that an employee who would support the candidate I defend, or someone else, would not take any risk by showing himself politically to the knowledge and to the eyes of his employer? Come on! I invite you to see what's going on in the country.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u115	Populist!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u116	[[Applause on the benches of the FI, SOC and GDR groups]] At present, some protected employees, who have trade union responsibilities, are even sometimes threatened and dismissed! When you are a Republican and attached to this great conquest of vote in the ballot box, you are for citizen sponsorship. Let us remember that at the beginning of the Third Republic, the vote was public: we were going to sign on a notebook. In the same way, when one boasts – not you – the great merits of Napoleon and is greeted – without any subtlety as I heard yesterday – the so-called plebiscite from which he benefited, I would like to recall that it was before the authorities, before the prefect, that one would sign on a notebook. Everyone knew who was voting what! For my part, I do not want this; I'm a Republican. Frankly, we know very well that we do not live in a world where there is no pressure. I urge everyone to allow our text to continue to be discussed and the signatories to these amendments to withdraw them. Let us debate: this is a serious subject! And stop saying that there would be defenders of the good mayors and a Parisian or I don't know anything else that would despise the local elected officials. That's not true! Let us relieve these chosen ones of certain things. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] As for the idea that they would not be subject to any pressure, do you question this point: do not all the media that could be described as provincial regularly explain that many mayors of small communes do not represent themselves because they are overwhelmed by the pressure they are under on certain things? All of this exists, just as it is true – as I said earlier – that political currents send militants to ask for their sponsorship. They were not elected for this; They didn't get a warrant for that. That's what we're saying. That this system of sponsorships continues to exist is one thing, but in the name of the republican spirit, and I would say even to be better republicans, it must be enriched by the collection, in representative proportions, of citizen sponsorships. Help us put this in place!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u117	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u118	As I said in my opening remarks, the Government does not wish to adopt this text...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u119	That's too bad!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u120	...for several reasons. First of all, we believe that the system of citizen sponsorships that you propose will restrict access to the presidential election for certain candidates, as could have been the case, for example, for candidates from the Workers' Party Movement in 1988 and the Workers' Party in 2002. Secondly, we consider that the control of citizen sponsorships by the Constitutional Council, as you anticipate, would be very difficult to achieve because of the large number of documents and the very limited deadlines. Indeed, at least 1.5 million sponsorships would have to be checked in just 20 days, in addition to the verification of the sponsorships of local elected officials. Third, this system of sponsorships would create a kind of pre-campaign and pre-election. It would therefore be such as to over-solicit the electorate and blur the distinction between the collection of sponsorships and voting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u121	Voters aren't stupid!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u122	I would add that I do not believe that the only question of sponsorship is the solution to combat abstention.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u123	You despise the people!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u124	Finally, less than a year before the next presidential election, I do not think it is consistent to change the rules. For all these reasons, the Government is in favour of the amendments to delete the single article.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u125	Mr. Thomas Rudigoz has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u126	Without repeating the debate – I said what I wanted to say – I wanted to clarify to Mr Corbière that I did not use the terms "fantasy candidacy" or "media candidacy". Maybe someone else used them, but it wasn't me. [[Ms. NaïmaMoutchoupplaudited]] As for these amendments aimed at deleting the single article, even if we are against your text – I have explained why – the subject is interesting and deserves to be discussed, so we want to go to the end of the debate. That is why the La République en marche group will not vote for them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u127	Mrs Paula Forteza has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u128	[[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Most members of the group Ecology democracy solidarity and I are in favour of a system of citizen sponsorships. This seems to us to be a way of democratising the procedure for the nomination of candidates for the presidential election and of allowing the involvement of citizens not only at the end of the electoral process, but also at the time when decisions are taken that structure and determine our political offer. It would also be a means of combating the feeling that citizens may have of being left out of these decisions, which, in essence, remain in the hands of those who have made the very particular choice to become elected. So, like other colleagues before us, we are calling for the deletion of the deletion amendments so that the debate can take place.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u129	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u130	As I said earlier on behalf of the Socialist and Related Group, we support this proposal for an organic law. I would add that the debate it raises must take place in this House, because it is calling on the citizens. We should not leave it aside, just as we should be given the opportunity to consider the other amendments that have been tabled. We must not always put the same questions back to tomorrow, to another legislature. I have been a Member of Parliament for 15 years and during each of my terms of office such questions have been asked, but have often been swept away and postponed to a later date, so that we do not have the opportunity to debate our institutions, the way in which candidates for elections are appointed or the citizens are taken into account in this process. However, these issues are essential. I therefore ask the signatories to these amendments to withdraw them. In any case, we will not vote on them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u131	Mr Erwan Balanant has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u132	Personally, and because I like to argue with Mr. Corbière,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u133	It's mutual!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u134	...I would like to see further consideration of the proposed organic law. I will therefore not vote for these amendments to delete the single article – even if I am shared, because another very important text on proportionality is on the agenda and I would like to have time to discuss this issue as well. Mr Corbière, let us clarify that it is not an anonymity that you want, but rather a pseudonym. According to your proposal, sponsors are pseudonymized in order not to make their identity public, but this one is known to the Constitutional Council. Anonymity would therefore not be complete, but I am not in favour of such a system. The vote is obviously secret in our country and it is a great step forward in our democracy. However, I believe that sponsorship is something different. When you're a child's godfather, it's not to hide. It is a commitment, an affirmation which, in the case before us, is that of political or philosophical thought. This statement seems important to me, because I believe that we are witnessing in our public and political space an increasing erasure of the risk-taking of commitment. Social networks are involved in this phenomenon and I fear that the anonymization or pseudonymization of sponsorships will also contribute to this drift. If your text planned to pair 500 or even 300 sponsorships of elected officials to 150,000 sponsorships of equally non-anonymous citizens, I think I would vote for it. But as things stand, I repeat, it's impossible for me.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u135	We had to table amendments!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u136	I put to the vote identical amendments Nos 4 and 14.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u137	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 84 Number of votes cast 81 Absolute majority 41 For adoption 9 Against 72
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u138	Amendments Nos 7 and 8 by Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon are editorial.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u139	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor in support of Amendments Nos 2 and 3, which can be presented together.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u140	Amendment No 2 proposes a mixed system so as not to oppose or compete with the sponsorships of elected representatives on the one hand and citizens' sponsorships on the other, but rather to reconcile them. We need the sponsorship of local elected officials who master the problems of the field and can therefore understand the candidates' programmes with this knowledge. It is therefore important to have their support, and it is therefore not appropriate for me to exclude them completely. That is why I propose to require 200 sponsorships of local elected officials, plus citizens' sponsorships, because it is indeed a good way to fight against abstention that is constantly progressing in our country. This mixed system seems to me a good compromise, which makes it possible to put the citizen back at the heart of the presidential election. Amendment No 3 follows from the previous amendment and aims to extend the deadline for submission of applications: while it is quite simple to control some sponsorships of local elected officials, controlling 150,000 citizens' sponsorships multiplied by the number of candidates, in good conditions, requires more time.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u141	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u142	I thank you, Mrs Ménard, for wanting to enrich this text, but I am against your amendments, first for a semantic reason. You speak, like many of us, of the "field": the terrain? It evokes to me, in a way that hardly turns away, someone who said: the land, he, does not lie. It was part of an ideological current that is not really ours...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u143	It was "The earth, it, do not lie", dear sir!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u144	No joke! ... I do not agree with this formulation, because we are all on the ground. There are not those who would be "of the ground" and the others; The citizens are on the ground too! I do not agree with the argument that some people would know things better than the citizens. However, our intention is not to oppose these two types of sponsorship, without going as far as the mixed system that you propose – which is to deny the possibility of a purely citizen path. That is why I propose that you withdraw your amendment and stay with our version of the text, which, in accordance with the procedure, maintains the possibility of relying on sponsorships of elected representatives – we talked a lot about mayors, but they are not the only ones – while allowing citizens to make their voices heard.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u145	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u146	The Government is against the mixed sponsorship system you are proposing. Indeed, your system of citizen sponsorships would restrict, in the first place, access to the presidential election for small candidates.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u147	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u148	Secondly, the control of citizens' sponsorships by the Constitutional Council would be difficult because of the quantity of documents and the limited deadlines, even with a mechanism close to that of the referendum of popular initiative; Moreover, in the event of a vacancy in the Presidency of the Republic, such a mechanism would be even more difficult to establish. Finally, this system could create a kind of pre-campaign and pre-election, blurring the distinction between the collection of sponsorships and the vote and soliciting the electorate excessively.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u149	Mr. Thomas Rudigoz has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u150	We are against an amendment that proposes a much too complex scheme, and we believe that the system of 500 sponsorships should be retained. The proposal for an organic law, whose ambition we understand, if it proposes the collection of 150,000 citizen sponsorships maintains the possibility of the 500 sponsors of elected representatives. On the other hand, the mixed system proposed here is totally illegible.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u151	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u152	For me, it's not elusive and it's very simple. On the other hand, I do not understand how, according to the Deputy Minister's arguments, this mixed system penalizes "small" candidates, although I do not like this term very much; It seems to me that it is precisely the opposite. In addition, Madam Minister Delegate, you have not paid attention to my Amendment No 3, in which I propose that the deadlines for monitoring sponsorships should be extended to take account of the fact that it is obvious that it does not take the same time to control 500 sponsorships of local elected officials or 150000 citizen sponsorships.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u153	Mrs Marie-George Buffet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u154	[[Applause on the benches of the FI and SOC groups]] [[Applause on the banks of the GDR,FIetSOC groups. – Mr ErwanBalanantapplauditedalso]] The minister delegate warns us of the danger of creating with citizen sponsorships a kind of pre-campaign: I want to reply to him that if, beyond the electoral moment alone, citizens are asked to participate in a political debate on the future of our nation and the social projects capable of responding to all the stakes of the time, it is so much better! What is this fear of a pre-campaign where citizens would be involved in political life! On the contrary, let's go, let's get them involved on a daily basis! This will do much good to politics in general.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u155	Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon's Amendment No 9 is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u156	This is not really an editorial amendment. In this regard, I could tease the minister delegate because, if one of her Government colleagues is extremely quick to condemn inclusive writing on behalf of the defence of the language, she gave a few moments ago an unfavorable opinion to a truly editorial amendment that was only intended to restore a correct French. In order to align our proposal with the recommendations of the Commission on the renovation and ethics of public life chaired by Lionel Jospin, a committee of which Roselyne Bachelot was a member, it is necessary to raise the threshold of representativeness from thirty to fifty departments. It seems to me that you can accept an idea that your Government colleague supported some time ago.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u157	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u158	The Government is against this amendment as well as all the amendments that change the parameters of this proposed organic law.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u159	Amendments Nos 10, 11, 12 and 13 by Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon are defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u160	Mrs Paula Forteza has the floor to support Amendment No 5, which adds an additional Rule after the single Rule.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u161	I would like to present you with a mechanism that constitutes an additional step towards the democratization of the process of nomination of candidates for the presidential election. It would be a matter of organising open, simultaneous and compulsory primary schools, according to the PASO system – primarias, abieratas, simultáneas y obligatorias – in Latin America, particularly Argentina and Uruguay, the idea being to mobilize citizens not only to plebiscite – in the common sense of the term – candidates, but also to enable them to decide or choose between different candidatures within the same party. It would be up to the public authorities to organise the election on a specific date, with citizens being asked as voters and not as activists, as is the case in the primary elections organized by the parties. This system is increasingly taking the interest of our researchers or our democracy specialists – I am thinking in particular of Julia Cage. It is also defended by several citizen collectives, in particular by the collective of La Primaire Populaire which intends to organize a broad primary citizen and which can be supported online.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u162	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u163	We are here in another discussion. One can be for or against primary schools – I am against it personally, as a small paper I have done on the subject where I explain that they are a sociologically very targeted sieve – but, in any event, it is a political decision, and I do not see what it would bring to democracy by making it a legal obligation. [[Mr. Adrien Quatennens applauds]] I am not for artificial divisions, but if political forces want to come together, it cannot be done by obligation but on a programme. The challenge today is to generate popular dynamics based on ideas, in other words to convince all those who abstain today. I invite you to look at the polls, which are of great concern to some of us: they confirm that, especially in the popular circles, a large part of the electorate does not recognize itself, or not sufficiently, in the candidates These citizens who doubt, because they came out bruised of having not drawn anything from the democratic experience, must convince them on the basis of ideas. Any coercive measure requiring candidates to withdraw to make room for one does not work, as demonstrated in the last presidential election, where the candidates from the primary schools were quite severely beaten and where those who achieved significant scores were those who made the choice to address the people rather than the political apparatus. So that's an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u164	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u165	Unfavorable opinion. Indeed, forcing each party to organize primaries to determine the candidates in the presidential election would be both an attack on their freedom of organization – they can now freely choose a candidate or support the candidate of another party – and on the freedom of candidacy, which can be made in France outside the framework of political parties.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u166	Mr Ian Boucard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u167	I share the view of the alternate rapporteur and the minister responsible. I do not see why Parliament should require a political party to organise a primary school. Moreover, keeping the presidential election away from the citizen is obviously not going to strengthen democracy. Those who are not activists will not participate in a primary: I do not understand how this could contribute to the fight against abstention. On the contrary, it seems to me that the primarys organized in our country in recent years have rather distanced the citizen from politics for the benefit of militants or even the hardest militants. The results proved to us that the winners of the primary schools were not always the winners of the presidential election and that, on the contrary, these primary schools sometimes weakened political formations. I am therefore totally against this amendment. Every political party must be able to organise itself as it wants, especially since there is already a filter for presidential candidates. In the end, it's the citizens who settle, and it's very good like that.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u168	Mr. Thomas Rudigoz has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u169	We are opposed to this amendment. As the Deputy Minister and the Alternate Rapporteur have said, it is not for Parliament to impose rules on political parties. Our democratic system allows them to function. We are organized with political parties, but the presidential election can also work without parties, as was the case for some candidates. It is a French specificity that must be preserved.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u170	Mrs Paula Forteza has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u171	I am surprised and disappointed by these answers. Our idea is not to force the parties to unite or to unite,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u172	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u173	...it is to open this decision within these devices. On the contrary, it is a question of moving in line with the proposed law and of further democratizing the procedure for the nomination of candidates.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u174	As the single article and the amendment to the additional article were rejected, the proposed organic law was rejected.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u175	The next item is the debate on the proposal for a law to extend active solidarity income for young people aged 18 to 25 (No 4014, 4080).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u176	Mr François Ruffin, rapporteur of the Committee on Social Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u177	It's the parents I'm talking to and the grandparents. It's up to you, for your children, for your grandchildren, I'm calling. I'll go straight to the essentials. [[Marie-George Buffet applauds]] In the trial that we are going through, in our nation, you have a debt to youth. Since last year, why are young people confined? Why did they shut down their universities? Why were they forced into confinement and curfew? To protect us, their elders, the older ones, and this sacrifice, young people have largely accepted it. But it's a sacrifice. According to Public Health France, one in three young people is in depression. Half say they are worried about their mental health, 20% have suicidal ideas. And how are they thanked? How are they rewarded for their civicism, for their altruism? By imposing a double penalty on them. They are the ones who will pay, who are already paying for the social crisis. The images struck, icy: these lines of young people, infinite tails, hundreds of meters to go to get a food parcel in the evening, in the street or in a gym, during a charitable distribution. Who's not astonished by this vision? Who does not find, as in visual echo, the memory of these black and white photographs of soups popular in the United States seen in the history books, with regard to the great depression? But this is not the thirties, nor the distant America, it is our country, today, in the twenty-first century, and it is the future of our nation that is reduced to begging. How do we answer that? The state began to be charitable with alms: 150 euros in June, 200 euros in October. And everywhere for young people, they are calls for donations, pools on Leechi, collections in supermarkets, caddies filled with ravioli, canned potatoes, sachets of mashed potatoes. Everyone goes with their good deeds. I myself participate in Amiens, with the restaurateur Thierry Martin and his friends who prepare daily meals, with my permanent deputy, submerged, from the cellar to the entrance to the sofa, by the boxes of hygienic tampons, shower gels, toothpaste tubes. Isn't this generosity great? Well, no, it's lamentable, this generosity! Because to whom do we give our charity? It is no longer on distant continents after a famine, an earthquake, a tsunami, it is no longer even to the poor in our home, to the discouraged, to the relegated of employment. No, it's for our students, our young people. And you'd have to applause yourself, applaud this scandal! This report, of course, I led it as rapporteur to report, from a young worker's home to a university residence, from a rural family home to a local mission, from the leavers of the Social Assistance for Children (SAE) to the Christian youth movement, with everywhere testimonies on fear: "the fear of not getting there, not paying rent", "the fear of not having anymore", "the fear of not eating", "the fear of the coming summer, of the scholarship that will no longer be paid". With testimonies about hunger: "I only eat one meal a day, either in the morning or in the evening, I went twice to the Restos du coeur, but since there was a monster tail there, I left". With testimonies of discouragement above all: "The only solution is to make kids. My sister, she's 19, she just had a kid. I said to him, "It's okay, now you'll get allocs." With testimonies of shrinking, of retracting existences, and of poverty: "I have never gone on vacation in my life. It's a stupid example, but I don't know anything other than my neighborhood, nothing at all. What's my life? I wake up in the morning, I go out, I spend the day outside, I go home, I don't move, and that's sad. » [[Mr FrançoisRuffinmontreuneboxe]] I've got miles of testimony, but instead, I'm offering you a symbol, just one: this little box. Maxime gave it to me. He studied psychology at the University of Picardie. His parents can't help him: "Zero, zero," he told me, "except occasionally, a shopping bag. He collects 100 euros of scholarship, 150 euros of personalized housing assistance (APL): that's who does not cover his rent. This year, he performs his compulsory internship in a child psychiatry centre, from Monday to Friday, sometimes on Saturday, an unpaid internship. I can't do a little job next to you. There is no butter in spinach, there is no butter or spinach. "Since I went to college, I haven't eaten meat, no fish, no fresh vegetables. It's better to take packages of Leclerc pasta," he says. His housing swallowed up the whole budget. The cinema, the theatre, the concerts, he doesn't know. He who shone at the leap in length, he stopped the sport; His athletics license was too expensive for him. "But the worst," he tells me, "it's health. I'm hard of hearing, I have my hearing aids here, but their maintenance has a cost, 100 euros a month and I can't put them on anymore. Before that, it was half-paid, now it's not paid back at all by the security. They don't think my disability is big enough. So I don't wear them anymore. And, besides, with the masks, I used to read lips, I can't anymore. So my disability I was masking, I'm now forced to admit it. I'm asking people to repeat, even to the cashier at the supermarket the other time. I see sighs. I'm surprised: "He's deaf that one!" Well, yes! Internship, it's infernal, I make them repeat all the time. » We have presented this case to your colleague Sarah El Haïry, Secretary of State for Youth and Engagement. How can Maxime get out of this? "Maxime, I have two tips to give her," she replied. "On the one hand, it is to apply for the emergency fund from the Centre régional des œuvres universitaires et sociales (CROUS). So that would make a 100-euro payment a month extra. On the other hand, because he is studying extremely useful, humanly and socially, he could today, Maxime, make a civic service mission. It's 680 euros a month over the next 12 months. » I returned to Maxime with these ministerial suggestions. "The exceptional aid I asked for and got, but it's 100 euros a year and not a month. In other words, it's an alms. And for the civic service, I would have to run this in parallel with my internship and in addition to my studies. I have already made requests, many, all refused, because the administrations, the associations that could recruit me, when I contact them, they favour young people with more free time and I understand them. But still, the Secretary of State seems to me next to the plaque, she does not know the reality, she believes these magical, universal devices. » The Secretary of State DIY with civic service ends here, contracts there. The Government has been in business for a year, the State has been in business for 30 years and it is a choice, it is a political choice to be next to the plate, it is the choice to make our youth suffer, it is the choice to mistreat it for the duration, it is the choice of abandonment. When, in L'Opinion, last week, Emmanuel Macron published a forum, when he wrote: "We are working so that in April 2025 we can appear one on our youth that would have turned the page", it is meant to be empathy, it is a hope, but it is all the other way around. It is a confession: four years, young people will have to wait until 2025, four years to turn the page. When the state wants, however, it can. From the first confinement, from the first day, last year, for the companies, for all the companies in the country, for their employees, the State set up a safety net, with two measures of magnitude, two simple measures, without criteria and without conditions: partial unemployment and guaranteed loan, a vast safety net that I do not dispute here. But, for young people, nothing, nothing for a year, nothing except alms, and when the scandal became too loud, too obvious, the state has wiped off devices, with criteria and conditions, devices with holes everywhere, devices not even funded, without envelopes, bogus devices. But everything for young people, anything but a vast safety net. It is this safety net that I come here to demand, the minimum of minimum, with an idea that is not very original, which is more than banal, but of common sense, an obvious one. In our country, the political majority is 18 years old: a Frenchman can vote. In our country, the criminal majority is 18 years old: a Frenchman can go to prison.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u178	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u179	[[Applause on the banks of the FI–Ms Marie-GeorgeBuffetapplauditedalso]] Why isn't the social majority at the age of 18? Why are young people excluded from the RSA up to the age of 25? Why this age discrimination? What a strange political decision, however, which lasts! One measure, supposed to fight poverty, is the one most affected by poverty. She avoids what should be her first target, she voluntarily puts herself next to the plate. But beyond that, parents, grandparents, I ask you to do for youth what others before you, before us, did for old age. After the Second World War, in an exsangu France, what did our elders decide? To put in place a comprehensive social security plan, including pensions, with minimum old age. And it was a miracle. For millennia, old age meant poverty in popular circles. We were getting older, when we had the chance to get older, with their children's hooks or charity. It was the standard that belonged to the landscape. And now, in thirty years, this age - old curse was broken. As early as the 1970s, the poverty rate among older people was divided by four, it slipped below the national average. And why? How? Because we have moved from family solidarity to national solidarity, to social solidarity. This is the same movement we need to continue today for young people, because statistics have reversed: it is among young people now that poverty is massive, four times higher than among pensioners. It is among young people now that this poverty has become the norm, which no longer shockes, which belongs to the landscape. And it is young people who now live in the hooks of their families, a little or a lot, depending on the fortunes. For the most affluent, their rent is paid. For the others, they are provided with a shopping bag. This unequal family solidarity is not enough. Here again, we must go towards social solidarity, national solidarity, we must have a foundation offered to all, to form ourselves, to stay in shelter, to heal ourselves, to discover our country, to fly from the nest. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] It was in the worst of trials, when the Nazi night came out, that our country grew up. In our turn, in the test that we endure, in the test that our nation is going through, to grow up for our youth, for our children, for our grandchildren.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u180	The next speaker is the Minister for Integration.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u181	Your bill gives young people the right to the RSA from the age of 18, compared to 25 today. I say this from the outset: we disagree with this idea. As a local elected woman and as a minister, I know the sacrifices our youth had to make; I see them every day in the field. Since the first day of the quinquennium, the Government has been fully mobilized to give future prospects to all our young people, and since the beginning of the crisis we have intensified the means to accompany them in this pivotal moment of life where we are building ourselves and charting our way. The opening of the RSA to young people at the age of 18 seems to us to be an ineffective and counterproductive response for young people as well as for those who accompany them. For starters, I want to share with you my astonishment. You are proposing today to extend to young people a scheme which you say does not fully fulfil its accompanying mission. For our part, we believe that this mission is in fact the cornerstone of the employment integration policies to which young people are entitled. Our ambition is to do everything possible to ensure that our children find their place in society, their own way and therefore a job. In order to achieve this, we must give every young person the right to personalized support, which can, of course, be associated with an allowance, because no one should be hindered by a lack of resources. Clearly, we want and can do better than an RSA for our young people. In addition, as former president of the Haut-Rhin departmental council and as a member of Alsace, I know the important role that the RSA represents for the departments. The opening of the RSA at the age of 18 could increase this burden by almost half, while some departments are already alerting us to their difficulties in meeting it. Such an increase could jeopardize the ability of departments to deploy their integration policies and thus reduce this policy to financial support alone. You propose this change of magnitude without funding, without consultation and without even providing for transitional periods of implementation. Since 2017, we have been fully mobilized alongside young people facing difficulties. To give them the skills our companies need, we spend an unprecedented EUR 13.8 billion effort on the entire quinquennium as part of the Skills Investment Plan (SIP), and to ensure that the crisis does not sweep away this investment, we are adding an additional EUR 700 million to open 100,000 additional training courses for future jobs in 2021 and 2022. In addition, in order to enable young dropouts to discover jobs and remobilise themselves, we launched La Promo 16-18, which is a reinforced accompanying programme in the context of the implementation of the training obligation. Young people furthest from employment also benefit from the development of the integration sector through economic activity (IEA), wanted by the President of the Republic in 2018. In 2021, 37,500 young people away from employment will be able to benefit from contracts in the integration structures through economic activity, which can be a solution for the most difficult young people, by offering, at the same time, a start-up, accompaniment and a remuneration. Having deployed €320 million in 2020 to support these structures in the face of the crisis and in their development, my ministry launched two weeks ago the second axis of the recovery plan for inclusion: €162.5 million will be deployed in 2021 to support the investment of these structures, including €12.5 million exclusively for mobility projects. Moreover, as soon as the crisis struck, we launched the plan "1 young, 1 solution". It now reaches more than 9 billion euros to leave no young people on the side of the road: it is simply new. We do not want a uniform solution for an audience as diverse and multiple as our youth; We want solutions adapted to each person's journey, profile and difficulties. This is why the youth plan provides a wide variety of support for everyone to gain access to employment, training and accompaniment. Thanks to the mobilization of companies and government services, this plan is already bearing fruit: there are more than 1.5 million young people under the age of 26 who have been employed in CDI or CDD for more than three months since August, almost as many as in 2018 and 2019, and more than 500,000 new apprentices, a level unparalleled in our country. To amplify this momentum in 2021, the Minister of Labour, Employment and Integration Élisabeth Borne and I plan to devote no less than 2 million solutions to young people, whether they are apprenticeships, training or integration pathways. Behind these figures are many faces, as many young people accompanied and supported, and as many families relieved to see the future of their children become clearer. This tailor-made response, I observed, for example, on 25 March at the Pôle Emploi agency in Angoulême, where I met Cécilia, hired as a saleswoman at a large chocolate shop, thanks to a job initiative contract, and Mohamed, 23 years old, became plumber-heater thanks to the frank jobs, these bonuses for hiring young people from the priority neighbourhoods. In order to ensure that no young person is prevented from entering employment by lack of resources, for the first time in more than 30 years, we have improved the remuneration of trainees in vocational training from 300 to 500 euros per month for young people from 18 to 25 years of age. We have also generalized the principle of remuneration to all accompanying routes which do not have them. The decree providing for this upgrading was published last Thursday in the Official Journal and the increase will be effective at the end of this month: this is equal opportunities in acts. Beyond the billions deployed, we also place a strong emphasis on the readability and accessibility of aid for the greatest number of people. This plan is based on the website 1jeune1solution.gouv.fr, which must become the reference information site on youth employment. In order to increase the rate of young people's use of the available aids, the Prime Minister officially launched last week a help simulator, also available on this site, which will make it possible to make known to young people all the aids they can receive, even in terms of health, housing or driving permits. Ladies and gentlemen, you see that, because we are responsible, we are more than ever aware of the operational nature of our proposals and of the effective use of our measures by young people. We will continue our efforts, with the ambition to radically transform and improve the support of young people in France. Our goal is to continue the fight against self-censorship, inequality of destiny and house arrest, without yielding anything from our initial ambition of transformation. At the young RSA, we prefer the model of the youth guarantee, which has proven its worth...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u182	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u183	Bof!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u184	..., and which is now appreciated and well identified by the young themselves. This model, which offers the same level of remuneration as an RSA, is more comprehensive as it is based on intensive support, coupled with immersion in business and financial support of up to 500 euros. It is in this pair that we believe: intensive accompaniment on one side, remuneration on the other. One can't go without the other. That is why we plan to double the places offered as a youth guarantee to reach a total of 200,000 admissions in 2021. I have visited nearly 30 local missions and I can testify that the Youth Guarantee provides a unique framework for young people to refine their project with the help of counsellors. I observed this especially at Romain, 21 years old, whom I met in Bourges on 11 March and which, thanks to the youth guarantee, is moving towards computer science after a civic service in digital inclusion. But we want to go further by building global support, open to all young people without a solution, including those who do not yet have contact with Pôle emploi agencies and local missions. Here again, we will start from the existing one that is working on the basis of the success of the current youth guarantee, unanimously welcomed on these benches. At the same time, we will continue to build the Public Service for Inclusion and Employment (SPIE), which also aims to ensure simple and effective support for young people and jobseekers. Olivier Véran, Élisabeth Borne and I, two weeks ago, made known the list of the thirty-one territories that will have the mission of deploying this new public service in 2021. After the first fourteen territories selected in 2020, thirty-five more will join them in 2022. I was also last week in Charente-Maritime to launch this phase of deployment with the President of the Assembly of the French Departments (ADF), because the departments are essential partners for the success of this mechanism. Each of these territories will have to mobilise and coordinate all the actors involved in integration and employment, in order to act at the right time on all the available solutions of training, employment, housing, mobility, health or childcare, all of which, of course, with the financial and technical support of the State. It is also to meet the challenges of supporting young people on the ground that we implement the public service of integration and employment, in order to guarantee them a smooth journey and personalized support towards employment. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a duty to devote massive resources to helping all young people in our country find their way, but in order to succeed, we are convinced that we must focus on the quality of the support of young people in France, from the accessibility of online aids to the monitoring of young people's journeys on the ground. Because accompaniment to employment is the real factor for emancipation and equal opportunities, it must be placed at the heart of our integration arrangements. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] We regret that this reflection is not at the heart of your concerns: that is why the Government is not in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u185	In the general debate, Mrs Clementine Autain has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u186	With this bill, we put on the agenda of our assembly the poverty that is overwhelming the youth of our country. I know this is a subject that you had already tried to put to the closet by a previous vote on 18 February, but understand well: while great poverty spreads its ramifications everywhere, propelled by an absolutely new social carnage, it is incomprehensible that our gaze is not about the suffering that it causes today. It is indecent that our assembly refuses to contain them when it is so quick, so ardent to assist the richest. As we know, the epidemic, confinements and curfews have had an accelerating effect on the waves of poverty that are falling upon the youngest, facing massive poverty and isolation. For the past 15 years, poverty has been increasing most among young people, as a result of a neoliberal religion, whose guidance is no longer known, except that it is the injunction to do less for those who have less and more for those who have more. This is also the consequence of the legal no-man's land in which 18-25-year-olds have been living for a long time: neither status nor allowances for students, which would allow them to live in dignity; difficulty for young people who work to accumulate enough hours to get into unemployment – and it is certainly not the counter-reform of unemployment insurance that risks improving things; It is also impossible to reach this vital minimum of the RSA. As a result, poverty is growing among young people as a result of political incapacity and, under the blows of the epidemic, it has become massive. In 2020, only 55% of graduates managed to find a job; For the past year, 36% of employed students have lost theirs. Today, ladies and gentlemen, a million young people live below the poverty line.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u187	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u188	Beyond these overwhelming figures, it is probably the images that hit us the most, which sounded to us: a young public, a student public queued in front of food banks, the maraud associations totally overflowed and the associations that hold the grocery stores together in pain in the face of the influx of new audiences, especially young people. What is spreading is an economy of poverty and lack, with one in two young people who have reduced their food spending or jumped a meal in the last six months. It is not by refusing to see these calamities that we will limit them. On the contrary, it is more than time to legislate on the essentials, because what we are talking about here is a vital minimum; What is being debated is a small mattress for the tens of thousands of young people who, without a prospect of employment or family support, switch one after another into poverty traps. "Those who are hungry are entitled," said Victor Hugo, but what right are we talking about today exactly? Since the beginning of the crisis, in strict line with its anti-social policy, built in particular on the shrinking of personalized subsidies for housing and on the end of the solidarity tax on wealth (ISF), the Government has locked itself in a neo-liberalism and budgetary austerity that put down all protections, safeguards and social conquests. What are the aids granted to young people in distress, if they are not mazes rather than ramparts to poverty?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u189	Civic service, youth guarantee...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u190	Where is respect when a secretary of state offers the solution of civic service, meaning a half-time work underpaid, which often turns out to be wage-earning disguised?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u191	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u192	When a person in charge of the majority proposes to young people to be in debt in their name – frankly, what a shame! – of emancipation? When a spokesperson, speaking to students, talks with an influencer, more accustomed to holding blogs in Dubai than to taking courses on Zoom? When a regional president, like so many others before her on the right, believes that the RSA will anchor the young people in the assistance? We know the chorus, but what a madness, ladies and gentlemen, to come to do everything, to say the least, to deny to the under 25s the extension of a right not to be miserable. That is what we are talking about today: not being miserable. Unlike France, all OECD countries have opened their social minimums to young people from the age of 18. We are an exception, a sad exception, among the OECD countries. In times of crisis, the best way to combat poverty is to support income through the provision of social benefits. The idea, which has been the subject of countless works – there is a whole convergent literature on the subject – has earned Esther Duflo her Nobel Prize and found a broad consensus among economists. Read the sociologist Denis Colombi: you will learn that giving money to the poor to get them out of poverty – scoop! - It's working! Of course, this idea does not corroborate the theory of runoff that irrigates your policy, in the absence of our economy, without the benefit of the first chores, because you remain absolutely deaf in the forums of economists. You refuse to see the misery spreading; you refuse to hear that the majority of the population is arguing for the opening of the RSA to the under-25s. I do not understand how the relevance of such a measure may not resonate in this House, when so many people demand it outside? How can you put yourself behind the cartoons of the MEDEF, for which it amounts to admitting that being poor is a full-time job? Outrage gives the measure of the ideological carcan. No, it's not enough to cross the street to find a job. By passing the bill today, it is a million young people that we could break out of extreme poverty, by offering them a break, a break at times, survival no doubt. It is a million fellow citizens who enter life through the smallest door, a door that we could open to them larger. The refusal to extend the RSA to children under 25 years of age is in my view a truly violent and illogical decision. It reveals the absurdity to which you lead the obsession with the competitiveness and competition of all against all. The other day, a member of the majority justified this refusal for the sake of justice: incredible! This would be unfair, as children in affluent families could perceive the AHR. At the same time, however, the Government chooses to facilitate the transmission of wealth between rich people – if not to favour rich young people, I don't know what we're talking about! When one comes to twisting the reality like this, it is that the worst contempt, as usual, is unfortunately at the helm. The closure of the RSA to the youngest is tantamount to refusing social majority at the age of 18. In essence, you do not accept the idea of youth autonomy when it reaches the age of majority. You consider young people to be children you would have control over, to whom you would give pocket money, children you would like to keep in the care of seniors. In doing so, you promote the image of a France entirely oriented towards the "winners", in which – frightening idea – poverty forges character and makes talent emerge. Your refusal underscores your all-out distrust of the poor, which is in addition to the distrust of young people. It highlights the anti-social nature of an economic policy geared towards the richest and crushing the most precarious. By destroying status and protection, by removing taxation on capital, you make the bed of a runoff that flows ever more upwards – a phenomenon that has nothing to do with physics but everything with your policy. Between 2009 and 2020, – the number is frightening – the wealth of French billionaires was multiplied by five – yes, by five, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u193	Shame! Parasites!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u194	Here, the urgency is always to help the richest, to find new tax niches, to distribute aid to large groups, without social or environmental compensation. This is the obsession of this House. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] With this text, we simply ask you to open your heart and your reason to allow young people between the ages of 18 and 25 not to turn into extreme poverty. That's only what we're talking about. It would be really time for this House to wake up. But when we choose to commemorate the fosseur of the Republic, Napoleon, we are probably not the best place to live and grow the principles of our republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u195	[[At 11:35 a.m., Mr. Hugues Renson replaced Mr. Marc Le Fur in the Chair]]
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u196	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u197	Comrade rapporteur, our country is facing a major social crisis. The epidemic of covid-19 has passed our society on to the revelation, by uncovering pre-existing social vulnerabilities. Social inequalities continue to increase as a result of the health crisis; poverty now affects 10 million people; food insecurity affects 5 million of our citizens and RSA demands are exploding in our departments. In this morose economic context, young people suffer particularly: students without small jobs or without a first job; brutally thanked interim workers; Apprentices who do not find companies to accommodate them; young people who come to the ranks of food banks. The crisis weighed the income of the 20-25 year olds twice as much as that of the rest of the French population, as shown by a study by the Conseil d'analyse économique (CAE) in January. In addition to these physical difficulties there is a growing psychological distress due to the limitation of social interactions, the closure of universities and the cessation of cultural and sporting activities. All these observations were made in the excellent report submitted in December 2020 by the Committee of Inquiry to measure and prevent the effects of the covid-19 crisis on children and young people, of which our colleague Marie-George Buffet was the rapporteur, and following which sixty-five proposals were put forward and voted unanimously to address the educational, psychological, financial and social problems faced by children and young people – the opening of the RSA to young people aged 18 to 25.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u198	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u199	For the past year, it has been clear that the Government and its majority have not taken the measure of the economic and social shock suffered by young people, simply distributing one-off grants of 150 euros and presenting a largely insufficient youth plan that leaves a significant part of our youth on the roadside. [[Marie-George Buffet applauds]] We can also be skeptical about the choice of solutions tried and tested for twenty years – assisted contracts or civic service, which tend to create parallel paths of integration without putting an end to the massive unemployment of young people – as well as on the proposal released this morning from the presidential hat like the rabbit of the prestidigitator. Worse still, the Government remains committed to implementing its unemployment insurance reform, which, as Les Échos revealed this week, will severely penalize young people entering the labour market after having chained small contracts during their studies. This reform is a social and economic nonsense. It must be put in the closet. In this context, the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left fully subscribes to the extension of the RSA to young people between the ages of 18 and 25, proposed by our colleagues from La France insoumée. It is indeed necessary to establish a minimum solidarity net for young people in this context of a double health and economic crisis. It is not normal for France to be one of the few European countries in which the majority do not qualify for minimum social protection. Since the civil majority is granted to 18 years, there is no justification for us to refuse the social and solidarity majority up to 25 years and to continue to close our eyes to the real living conditions of young people. This emergency measure is now essential. We also need to invent sustainable mechanisms to support young people in order to guarantee them a guaranteed income and a continuity of their social rights. Often ineligible for unemployment insurance because of a lack of work, which is excluded from the RSA because of their age, young people are now facing a major economic crisis that closes their doors to the labour market. We must act. It's our duty. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] We have been advocating for many years for a student income or self-sufficiency allowance to ensure that young people are financially self-sufficient during their training. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] We must also work to expand unemployment insurance while strengthening the resources of the youth support structures. All youth associations demand this and the social situation requires it. However, the Government and the majority continue to kick in, referring to the youth guarantee scheme, which covered only 100,000 young people in 2020, which may have affected 200000 by 2021, and whose implementation requires enormous human resources in local missions and in Pôle emploi. However, the opening of the RSA to young people between 18 and 25 years of age could be addressed to 800,000 young people who are disadvantaged today. We have a responsibility not to make the covid generation a sacrificed generation. Social emergency forces us to protect our youth. This text is an opportunity to send him a positive signal.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u200	Mrs Christine Cloarec - Le Nabour has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u201	Several years ago the idea of extending the RSA to all young people from 18 years of age emerged. For several months now, the subject has been regularly debated in the Chamber. I will not list again the emergency measures taken in the framework of plan 1 young person, 1 solution, or the already very satisfactory results that have been achieved. I still want to share with you a good news: 48% of young people today identify the "1 young person, 1 solution" portal, which links businesses, young people and the structures that can accompany them – it's more than encouraging. Because young people are not always well informed about the assistance they are entitled to receive, the Government launched the Youth Compass last week, which we must promote. I choose to remind you once again of our ambition for the youth of this country. Since the beginning of the quinquennium, and especially since the youth plan, it has been about better accompanying young people in their journey towards self-reliance and employment, better identifying them and going to those who do not know that they can be helped when they need them. Our ambition is to allow every young person to know what door to knock on, to find an answer to his questions. Our ambition is to encourage them to train because we all know that qualifications are the passport for employment. Our ambition is also to provide solutions to the challenges young people face in their daily lives – not only to stay in, move around, care for themselves, but also to gain access to culture, sport and leisure.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u202	With your unemployment insurance reform?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u203	Finally, our ambition is to succeed in creating the public service of integration and employment, dear to the minister delegate, a community of actors in each territory capable of coordinating, at the service of the integration of young people: the faster we find, the faster we reorient, the faster we accompany, the faster we remobilise. It is quite simple to defend the idea of distributing money to all young people.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u204	It is quite simple also to remove the ISF!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u205	It is more difficult but courageous to review youth policies and succeed in creating the conditions for sustainable social and professional integration for all. That's what we do. The extension of the RSA to all young people from the age of 18 is a good misconception. Why? First of all, because the RSA remains stigmatizing, no matter what some say. Second, extension to all young people would be an unfair measure: some would benefit from it when they do not need it; We prefer to give more to those who have less. In addition, we retain the desire to condition the guarantee of resources to a contract of reciprocal engagement between the young person and the accompanying structure, as for the beneficiaries of the RSA today, as for a young person who signs a journey of accompaniment towards employment and autonomy (PACEA) with a local mission. In other words, the young RSA already exists, but it is paid in exchange for studies or as part of an integration path. Everyone today agrees that the Youth Guarantee – a one-year, one-year, renewable, hand-held mechanism for local missions – is a formidable tool for the emancipation and integration of young people. For example, the report of the Youth Policy Guidance Council (YOC) concludes: "The youth guarantee must be the gateway to all the accompanying routes for young people in precarious situations tomorrow, since it combines "accompaniment" and "guarantee of resources", which is an asset to combat effectively the poverty of young people. The success of the Youth Guarantee is due to this specific model, unlike the RMI and RSA schemes, for which the weakness of the support component has been noted in new reports. » If you want to know more about these young people who knock at the door of local missions and enter as a youth guarantee, I recommend you, as the president of local mission, an excellent report written and directed by Ilan Teboul, Hear in our campaigns, which tonight spends on La Chaîne parlementaire, a very touching documentary, on young Alsatians living in a rural territory, who have integrated the guaranteed arrangements young people a few days before the first confinement. You will be able to follow these young people with a difficult life course. Some have suffered school failure, stigmatization, shame. Others were victims of violence. They're all convinced they're worthless. They doubt, they lack confidence in them, they are lost. They suffer from isolation, loneliness, do not have the permit, no means of locomotion. They dream of leaving, of finding a job, of being autonomous. This documentary clearly shows the diversity of the profiles, how these young people pass doubts to envy, how they gradually rebuild themselves and how they learn to value what is good in them when they have nothing to value on a resume. Beautiful stories, and others that continue, because some need a little more time. So, rather than creating a young RSA, we prefer to continue thinking about the contours of a universal youth guarantee that combines accompaniment and a guarantee of resources. The President of the Republic has just committed himself to this and will make announcements before the summer. The Ministry of Labour, Employment and Integration is currently consulting with local actors, the Public Employment Service, the Employment Centre and local missions. The National Union of Local Missions (UNML) has also made an initial contribution and is continuing its reflection work within its network. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] There is still a great deal of work to be done, such as the prevention of school and university dropouts, the situation of students, training on rights, training offers, the identification of invisible people or the effective and complementary mobilisation of all actors in education, guidance, training and support, as well, of course, that of companies, associations and communities. We asked for monumental efforts from young people. We owe them our full commitment today.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u206	Mrs Josiane Corneloup has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u207	The crisis of the covid-19 affected not only people in fragile situations, the elderly and job seekers, but also young people. Those between the ages of 18 and 29 constitute the majority of people living in poverty and insecurity in France. The health crisis that has weakened them puts the nation at risk of a sacrificed generation. More than 700000 young people are at risk of not finding a job when they first enter the labour market. In normal times, 46% of young people work alongside their studies. At the time of the first confinement, almost a third of them lost their jobs. The reality is that the health crisis has deprived many young people of the small jobs that allowed them to live. In the territories, local elected officials and charitable associations sound the alarm. Young people account for almost half of the people using food banks and social services, and RSA demands are exploding. Their sense of ill-being is of particular concern. Students, who are deprived of face-to-face classes, social ties and, for the most part, work, are in a serious psychological state. Yes, young people need help. However, I do not believe that it is by giving 18-25-year-olds unconditional access to the RSA, before we even think about finding them a training or a job, that we will effectively fight youth poverty. While the benefit of the RSA is now limited to the over 25 years, this condition already knows one exception: the young active RSA, introduced by the Finance Act for 2010. To benefit from this RSA, young people must have worked for two years over a period of three years. This is an accompaniment in the search for work and professional integration. The opening of the RSA unconditionally to children under 25 also raises the question of its financing. We are, as a result of the crisis, in a context of a sharp increase in the number of RSA beneficiary households. At the end of October 2020, the number of beneficiaries increased by 8.5% compared to October 2019 and now reaches 2.1 million people. As a departmental advisor, I note the deterioration in the financial situation of the departments due to the increase in their social spending. Funding for an AHR for young people under the age of 25 would therefore be very difficult. In addition to the additional burden, the problem of financing arises more broadly. The question we have to ask ourselves is what are the opportunities, the prospects for the future for young people today. Rather than creating new rights from the age of 18, we must focus on creating new opportunities. We are convinced of the need to create conditions for better social and vocational integration, with greater consideration and support in studies or towards employment and training. We believe that it is appropriate to strengthen the well-proven accompanying arrangements and to facilitate young people's access to the various schemes from which they can benefit. Within this range of measures, the Youth Guarantee works well and needs to be expanded. The contracting logic on which it is based seems to me to be adapted to the current issues. It is important to offer young people comprehensive community support with, in turn, a commitment to return to a training course or a job. Similarly, learning must be encouraged. However, care must be taken to reduce the payment deadlines for the payment of aid from the Service and Payment Agency (SPA) to companies when hiring one or more apprentices. These deadlines are now abnormally long and dissuade companies. We also need to amplify the plan "1 young, 1 solution", allowing – why not? – longer CSDs, e.g. six months, to enable the company to acquire itself. With regard to students, who have not been able, during their holidays or studies, to carry out CSDs, we must consider them better and help them by amplifying the actions carried out – I am thinking in particular of scholarships, housing aids, because the latter is often the main item of expenditure for the young person or his family, low school fees, meals at 1 euro, ad hoc emergency aid and psychological support. Work, job integration, learning and, therefore, the maintenance of social ties are fundamental values, on which we cannot compromise. We will only help young people by supporting them and helping them integrate into the labour market. For all these reasons, we will not vote on this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u208	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u209	Mr David Corceiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u210	The bill we are debating is intended to open up active solidarity income from the age of 18. This is not the first time that we have had to take a decision on this subject, because the Socialist and related group made a similar proposal last February, albeit a little more substantiated. We cannot conceive of enclosing our youth in a way that does not end and that would give a service without any prospect of evolution and without a worthy accompaniment of that name. A system that would grant an income at the age of 18 unconditionally and whatever happens is not a good solution for our youth. If the RSA were a sesame to get out of the precarious, we'd know for a long time. But we must be clear: this system does not offer long-term prospects, and it is indeed such prospects that young people need. We have heard too much from you that, because we oppose this proposal, we would ignore the difficulties that some of the young people face. This is an argument that is too easy to defend when you sit in the opposition! Our majority, along with the Government, are trying to offer concrete solutions to this generation of 18-25 year olds, who are suffering the collateral damage of the pandemic. The "1 young, 1 solution" plan, abounding to 9 billion euros, has been bearing fruit since last summer, since it allowed the signing of more than 500,000 apprenticeship contracts and one and a half million CDD and CDI. In addition, the youth guarantee model responds much more precisely to the dual ambition of financial support and support. From 16 years of age, the amount allocated is very close to those granted by the RSA. This model is more complete than a simple RSA that would be offered unconditionally. The Youth Guarantee scheme gives concrete support and opens up real prospects for the future: 200000 places are opened in 2021, and even more in the coming months, as the Government wants to expand this scheme towards a universal youth guarantee. It is necessary that its implementation be rapid, in order to provide each young person with the personalized support he deserves, while at the same time providing him with sufficient resources. With this bill, you are juggling with the hopes of youth and false messages of encouragement. Mr rapporteur, you can always let public opinion be believed or make videos suggesting that nothing is done for the most precarious and that this majority cares only for the most affluent, but this subterfuge does not stand the test of facts and figures. For more than a year, a considerable number of mechanisms have been implemented to help our young people in all the difficulties they may encounter. In terms of financial support, real efforts have been made, such as the enhanced activity premium, an additional €7 billion for the integration of young people, the upgrading and extension of housing and installation subsidies, or the 250,000 civic service missions which allow for the commitment of others while receiving an allowance of €473 to €580 per month. The young RSA is a false good idea, which does not meet the desire to give our youth a better future. We need to do better. What we are proposing is a monthly allowance for young people, which accompanies training, a path of integration, a commitment and, above all, a future. You who offend yourself over time of the Jacobinism and centralism of Paris, have you only consulted the departments on such a proposal? I would like to remind you that it is these communities that are the funders and managers of the AHR. Such an extension of the scope of the beneficiaries would have a very strong impact on the human and financial resources of the departments. I am pleased to learn today that all your candidates in the departmental elections will support this mechanism. Finally, I would like to mention a young Valoisienne, Marine, who explained to me that it was not all the help she had received that helped her find a job, to receive more consideration and, above all, to have a better future. [[Applause on the banks of theDemgroup – Mr M的jidElGuerrabapplauditedalso]] For all the reasons I have just outlined, the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats Group will not vote for this bill, which is the opposite of an effective social policy.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u211	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u212	Less than three months ago, the members of the Socialist and related Group defended in this Chamber a proposal for a minimum youth policy, which was rejected by the majority. For more than fifty years, France has put in place a minimum old age that has been able to reduce and prevent the chronic poverty of the elderly, which has long been terrible. The crisis of the Covid-19 plunged hundreds of thousands of young people into immense distress and dreadful insecurity. We then proposed what we thought was a republican compromise: the opening of the RSA at the age of 18. This proposal was also opposed and rejected. The majority opposes the fact that young people would prefer a job and a training solution to this minimum. This response refers to a certain conception of youth, which underpins the organisation of the aid granted. To put it simply, young people, even after 18 years of age, are considered to be children – the children of their parents – which explains why the aids are conditioned on resources up to the age of 25. Objectively, there is no real reason to consider RSA as a solution for those over 25, but not for those under 25. We are Europeans and we are worried about being a country in advance, but France is one of the few European countries in which the age required to reach the minimum income is higher than that of the majority. This is a singularity in France, for twenty-three of the twenty-seven countries of the European Union open up social rights at the age of 18. According to all the evaluations carried out, the universal system which makes support available to all, regardless of the financial situation of the parents, provided that one has left the family home, prevents poverty, increases autonomy and improves integration into the professional world. On the other hand, in the countries of the South, it is family solidarity that dominates and overcomes the difficulties. Finally, in countries of economic liberalism, one chooses to trust the market, through student loans or within the framework of the labour market. In the latter two cases, the reproduction of social inequalities is highest. Let us come to the bill proposed by our colleague François Ruffin. We thank him for the right of continuation he opens up and for the opportunity he gives our assembly today to return to the right to live and not to survive. As former President François Mitterrand said, as he was preparing to entrust Michel Rocard's government with putting in place what would become the minimum income of integration, the RMI, ancestor of the RSA: "The important thing is that a means of living or rather of surviving is guaranteed to those who have nothing, who can nothing, who are nothing. » Yes, there is a covid generation that, between distance education, loss of small jobs and family difficulties, cumulative delays, anxiety and poverty. In addition, young people in working-class neighbourhoods are in great difficulty on a recurring basis. All studies show that about 30 per cent of young people in a generation leave initial education without a diploma, as well as 30 per cent leave higher education without a diploma. Yes, the crisis is serious and solutions are slow. Yes, plan 1 young, 1 solution and the platform dedicated to it are interesting, but many young people remain unsolved. The ambition is to increase the number of guaranteed young contracts to 200000 by 2021, but more than 1 million people are neither in employment nor in training and have no visible difficulties. As a result, overall, young people are getting worse and their poverty rate is three times higher than that of 60-year-old French. Perhaps the majority will tell us that it has begun to set up a minimum youth. I want to talk about the defiscalization of donations, this anticipated legacy. That is true, I grant you: in addition to abolishing the ISF, you are facilitating tax-free transmissions in the midst of a crisis. This is an additional reason for us to support the bill before us, because we are convinced that every citizen who has done so is fully aware of his or her duties without having to make them understand them with injunctions, checks and conditions of his or her rights. I will recall to conclude that the work of Nobel-winning economist Esther Duflo, as well as the experiences of Finland and California, among others, have shown that unconditional aid never has a disincentive effect on the return to work. [[Applause on the SOC and FI benches]] No, we have not done everything to accompany, assist and emancipate the youngest. No, we have not yet done everything to combat their unemployment and that of their parents. Yes, we have to break up with what was done yesterday and others are still doing. We need to be inspired by what works elsewhere, especially in our neighbours, who manage to reconcile real economic dynamism with better solidarity between generations. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, we really need to open up social rights to young people from the age of 18.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u213	Mr M'jid El Guerrab has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u214	This morning we are considering the bill by our colleague François Ruffin to extend the income of active solidarity to young people between the ages of 18 and 25. On all benches, for more than a year now, in the opposition as in the majority, we are all concerned about the situation of young people who are experiencing the economic and social repercussions of the health crisis. We have all made proposals, although different, which shared the same objective: to combat youth poverty. A debate on the state's action towards the most precarious was also taking place this week in our Chamber, during which I was able to witness the financial and psychological distress of the students, who were at the heart of these exchanges. I even told about my visit to a food aid association, where I was able to see this distress with my own eyes: hours of waiting for a lunch basket with pasta or rice. This visit was quite poignant, and I recommend that all my fellow Members do the same. Even if we still have to do more, the majority of us have taken strong measures in recent months to combat the precarious situation of young people with, in particular, Plan 1 young person, one solution, already mentioned by my colleague Corceiro, endowed with EUR 9 billion to support the employment of young people, doubling the number of beneficiaries of the Youth Guarantee, which entitles us to an allowance of EUR 500 per month and to a path of integration, the payment of exceptional aid to young people in difficulty in the face of the crisis, or the opening of 250,000 civic services which allow us to engage for others while receiving an allowance. Our majority therefore shares the will to act in favour of young people and to fight against the precarious situation that affects them. I must also say, ladies and gentlemen, that in my personal capacity I absolutely agree with your wish to have this debate on equal rights, in particular social rights, in fidelity to our universalist model and to the republican principle of equality that we all share. However, the majority disagreed with the method. First of all, I would like to point out that the Group of the European People's Party, on the initiative of my colleague Valérie Petit – whom I welcome and whom I am sure she is listening to at this moment – has proposed the creation of a citizen base. This is an unprecedented version of the universal income that meets the imperative of guaranteeing everyone a safety net from the age of 18. Last October, our group adopted a motion for a resolution calling on the Government to launch a public debate on the creation of a universal income mechanism called the citizens' floor. We await this great debate, Madam Minister Delegate. At the financial level, this reform would not affect public expenditure. Indeed, the economy achieved through the simplification of the social benefits system, which now reaches an annual cost of 400 billion euros, a single tax rate of 32% and the maintenance of the upper tranches would finance the individualisation of the citizen base which, in terms of its amount, would be similar to the RSA. As for the proposal you are making to us, ladies and gentlemen, its cost is estimated at EUR 5 billion. Our ambition for youth is not to lock it in a social minimum, but to support and accompany it in a time when all horizons must be open to it. With the extension of the youth guarantee, we propose a monthly allowance which is not just a financial compensation but is coupled with genuine personalized support, training, a path of integration into employment and citizen engagement. We are convinced that dry aid cannot meet the will to emancipate young people. Because each young person is different and because the age criterion is not enough to form a homogeneous group, we must propose to the youth of the hand sewn. To do this, we can count on local actors such as local missions and departments, among others. Let's trust them. Our proposals are ambitious: let us think together in a non-partisan framework about new realistic schemes, such as the citizen base, to ensure that everyone has a safety net throughout life. You will have understood that, for all these reasons, my group will oppose this bill. Personally, I will abstain.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u215	Mr Michel Zumkeller has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u216	The RSA young people, in all its forms, is a subject that we are discussing very regularly in this House – this has been recalled – which reflects the extreme poverty in which the crisis has thrown our young people. Last February, we discussed the proposal for a law by our colleague Boris Vallaud in the context of the niche of the Socialist and related group, and last October, the motion for a resolution by our colleague Valérie Petit, in the context of the niche of the group Acting together, on a very similar subject. I believe I am not mistaken in saying that we all agree that our young people are suffering and will still suffer from the consequences of the crisis. As in all crises, it is those who are already in precarious conditions that have to bear the most serious consequences. And, already, the poorest population before the crisis was our youth. In terms of freedoms, young people have to suffer from the closure of places of life. In terms of employment, they will find it most difficult to enter a crisis-stricken market. Remember that in France, 700000 young people arrive every year in the labour market. From a material point of view, the only view of the queues in front of the food banks condemns us to do more and better for our youth. Where the differences are most pronounced, as in many cases, are the means to achieve this. Finally, everyone has a definition of their "young RSA", which gradually becomes a generic expression with very different devices. I would like at this moment to recall the origin of the establishment of an income of assistance by the Rocard government in 1988. At the time, there was talk of a minimum income for integration, which was not granted to young people under 25 years of age. In 2003, the Raffarin government transformed this RMI into a minimum operating income RMA before the RSA was introduced in 2009. At no time did any of these governments, though of very different sensitivities, wish to grant these incomes from the age of 18. The IDU-I group does not share the vision of a generalization of this allocation. The best thing we can give to our young people is training and jobs. Personally, I do not want to imagine that the payment of an AHR is the only way forward for young people. All aspire to a serene life, to work, to train, to feel useful and to find a job that corresponds to their desires or dreams. That is what we must succeed. Like the members of my group, I will never solve what is considered mass unemployment as an end in itself. What we want is for everyone to be able to study or train, regardless of the income of their parents, and for those who are not students or in training to find a job that corresponds to their wishes and qualifications and allows them to live decently. We are all the more opposed to the young RSA as proposed because it is not matched by a counterpart, whether it is the obligation to seek employment, to carry out a volunteer internship or to train.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u217	All right.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u218	But as I said in the introduction, the subject of support for our youth is essential. We must therefore work together to find concrete solutions. Everyone has leads, we have them: to ensure an income for a young person who is undergoing training; modify our scholarship system to expand it and allow more access to it; support SMEs that hire young people, why not, by paying compensation for the same amount as the RSA; introduce a generation contract, which has been discussed for years, to encourage the replacement of a retiring employee by a young person. These are leads, on which I hope we can all work together. [[Mr. Jimmy Pahun applauds]] So you will have understood this: despite the enthusiasm and commitment we have given the rapporteur, our fundamentally different vision of society leads our group to reject this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u219	Mrs Martine Wonner has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u220	Living with a social minimum is in no way an ideal, whether you're 18, 25, or 55. Whatever his age, regardless of his career or the moment of life when the use of national solidarity takes place, there is nothing satisfying to have to settle for living on less than 500 euros per month. And, of course, no young person is built with social minima as a horizon. Is this, however, a reason for depriving young people under the age of 25 who would need it from the RSA?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u221	Exactly.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u222	In the context of the health crisis, which had become a major socio-economic crisis through the Government's action, that issue was a matter of heightened urgency and urgency. For the past year, as a result of this crisis, young people are no longer the age of all possible: they have become an age of all risks. Usually, the younger ones are already the ones most affected by poverty and insecurity. Half of the poor in our country are under the age of 30, with the age group 18 to 29 very affected. Student insecurity is not a new phenomenon either, as 20% of students lived below the poverty line before 2020. However, since this crisis, small jobs have disappeared and family solidarity, which made it possible to compensate, is sometimes no longer enough. This situation, already unacceptable yesterday, is becoming even more sinister today. For young people, weekend prospects have replaced career prospects, discouraged by a long-term labour market. Now many of them are coming to increase the queues to receive food aid. It is our turn to show ourselves worthy of the spontaneous solidarity that has manifested itself in our country, by better organizing national solidarity. Opening the AHR to young people under the age of 25 is an appropriate response, an emergency response. This is a proposal that the Freedom and Territory Group has supported in the first few months of the crisis, despite the constant refusal of both the majority and the Government. The solutions put in place so far by the Government do not make it possible to achieve a comprehensive strategy: they continue to exclude too many young people by acting only through the prisms of employment and integration. I am thinking, for example, of the youth guarantee. It is an indispensable lever, we recognize, but if the first developments presented so far as derogations are encouraging, we are still far from a universal youth guarantee and there is a strong bet that it will never be universal, despite the President's announcement of a new aid before the summer. In the meantime, consultations are continuing and this still undersized mechanism remains poorly known. It is the subject of a major non-recourse: in 2019, while more than 900000 young people were out of school, unemployed or in training, there were only 93,000 beneficiaries. Beyond its enlargement, the youth guarantee does not respond to all emergency situations: some of them call for financial support, time not to sink, time to find a job, time not to switch to precariousness and irremediable poverty. Opening up the RSA, an already well-known system, which is therefore easily mobilised, seems to us to be a suitable solution, at least temporarily. In fact, other devices are conceivable. The basic income, the guaranteed minimum income, the citizen base from the age of 18, regardless of the name, can be a temporary solution to ensure the universality of mandatory assistance for young people. The committee of experts within France's strategy to evaluate the strategy to combat poverty highlighted the lack of understanding of the exclusion of children under 25 years of age from social assistance and called for a basic income for them. [[Applause on the SOC, FI and GDR benches]] Let us stop confusing integration policies with social policies. We need each other. Using national solidarity to help the most fragile of us must not be a taboo or a shame. Let us stop seeing the granting of aid as a horizon for young people: let us see it rather as a promise of emancipation. Until then, to deal with the emergency, use the tools at our disposal and open the AHR to those under the age of 25.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u223	Mrs Emilie Cariou has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u224	The time of youth is dreamed of as that of freedom, hope and emancipation, but far from this ideal, the crises that we are going through have revealed to the open the reality of the painful situation of a youth that is developing without being recognized and, above all, without being protected. Between insecurity and dependency, insecurity dominates. So, Madam Deputy Minister, let us see, including in the Grand-Est region where you are presenting yourself, the queues that are constantly growing for the distribution of food aid. The lack of a social response to this youth today deprived of employment and subsistence is not only a political but also a moral fault on the part of the Government, a fault as serious as it is unacceptable. Our universalist republican ideal thus comes up against the harsh reality of social reproduction, a source of inequality: depending on the social situation of each person, the origin of the family or the cultural capital, the horizon of possible is not the same. Recognizing youth through protective social status is all the more necessary in this period of crisis as young people are among the first to suffer the disastrous consequences. If youth is heterogeneous, it is driven by a common aspiration: emancipation towards genuine autonomy. However, with a social system inherited from another age, illegible, inadequate and unjust, based almost exclusively on the principle of familyization, we are thousands of French to deplore that the responses of the public authorities are not up to the level. The grants granted to students are too low, they do not allow them to support themselves. Regardless of the level of grants on social criteria to which they are admitted, they remain well below the threshold of precariousness. Existing aid forms a fragmented package: housing aid, grants on social criteria, emergency aid and integration aid. They often remain unknown and are insufficient in the context of the social crisis in our country. They are conceived from a paternalistic perspective which does not consider young people as subjects of law but as right holders attached to their parents. This explains, in particular, that of the ten existing social minima, so few are accessible to young people. Social grants are designed to relieve families of part of the financial burden of higher education: they are not a means of gaining autonomy. In addition, they are often calculated on the incomes of parents in previous years, making students vulnerable to economic changes within their families – unemployment, divorce, death. The crisis we are going through, the health crisis, the economic crisis and the social crisis, reveals the obsolescence of this system every day. Last September, a report by the Observatoire de la vie étudiant (OVE) found that almost 36% of employed students had lost their jobs in the first confinement, resulting in a decrease in income of €274 per month per student. In the absence of resources, these students are now living on food aid and more and more of them are stopping their training. But Minister Vidal's only answer was to offer us the opening of the youth guarantee. Of course, it is useful for some, but it is far from being applicable to all audiences, particularly students. This shows not only a serious lack of awareness of the scheme itself, but also a lack of understanding of the situation of young people who are living in precarious conditions today. The only other answer of the majority was to propose to overend our students, a completely upsetting answer: what blindness! Finally, I do not dare to mention the fact that, at the same time, we are being proposed a reform aimed at allowing families with very large assets to pass them on without any taxation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u225	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u226	Given the existing reductions, this measure, which amounts to exempting wealthy people from donation rights, undermines the historical redistributive role of our tax system. [[Applause on the banks of the GDRandFIgroups. –Ms MartineWonnerapplauditedalso]] That is why, ladies and gentlemen, creating a youth emancipation allowance and opening it up to any adult under the age of 26 has become an absolute necessity in France. That is what we have proposed with the Members of the New Democrats Party and the group Ecology democracy solidarity: that is why we will support this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u227	The general discussion is closed. The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u228	First of all, I would like to thank for their support the left-wing groups – France insoumise, the Democratic and Republican Left and the Socialist and related groups –, the Libertés et Territoires Group, Mrs Cariou and other Members, including in the Republican Group and the Democratic Movement (MODEM) Group and related democrats, who individually co-signed this bill. That proves we're going to make it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u229	Here we go!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u230	No, you're not at all. Now I'm going to turn to my opponents, because they're really adversaries.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u231	Calimero!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u232	[[The rapporteur applauds]] Here, I want to applaud you. You come here to express your satisfaction with your results and to share good news. But these are less beautiful stories that the president of the Restos du Coeur tells: "An image that upset me is to see them, these young people, arrive at us with their outfit of Uber Eats. That is, they bring food, but they don't have food for themselves! It sawed me. " And the president of ATD Quart Monde: "We no longer want to respond to the demands of the Government. We told him everything, said it again, and re-edited it again. The Government had no knowledge of the question of poverty. "
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u233	Nothing?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u234	There are a million more poor, for half of the young people under the age of 30, and you tell us that the lack of resources should not hinder the journeys! But it is every day that it hinders the journeys towards education or training! It's every day that he makes the stomachs cry out of starvation! It is every day that it plunges young people into the anguish of losing their homes. You have miles of examples in my report. Yeah, it's every day, and you, you're telling us that it shouldn't happen... I'm at the end of my term of office and I know the usual "We Could Do Better" hit here in the form of "We Could Do Better Than Your RSA." But who's gonna say the RSA is ideal? Not even me!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u235	No one!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u236	But it's always the same answer. Last year, I was defending a bill entitled "Women in the household: guiding subcontracting, ending abuse". The response of La République en Marche was: "We want to go further". A year later, what is it? Nothing! Nothing for maintenance workers, nothing for cleaning women. At the beginning of my term of office, I defended a proposal for a law on burn-out, a Member of the Dem Group said: "We need a global reflection on living conditions at work that will lead to concrete progress". Another, from LaREM: "I can assure you of the determination of our majority to deal with occupational diseases. Three years have passed – you had time – but there is still nothing: zero! [[« Ohlà», on the banks of the LaREM group]] Well, it'll be the same for young people. To say that we must "continue a reflection on the contours of a universal youth guarantee", is this a measure of the urgency of the situation? They've been starving for a year!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u237	He's not far from the burn-out!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u238	They've been waiting in front of the Restos du Coeur for a year and you stand there, with your hands in your pockets, saying that you will "continue a reflection on the contours of a universal youth guarantee"! What do you propose? I listened to you: "a very wide variety of aids", "we'll have to think about leads", "we'll have new devices". I have also heard about Promo 16-18, the young active RSA, the job initiative contract, the youth guarantee. The truth is, it's been 30 years since we've been accumulating devices!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u239	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u240	All the experts on the youth issue speak of a maquis, a millefeuille, a labyrinth, a gruyère. The Secretary of State for Youth and Engagement, Sarah El Haïry, when I interviewed her, replied: "There are indeed many mechanisms, it takes a PhD in youth policy to find his way. »
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u241	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u242	And what you're proposing are new devices! It must be borne in mind that young people do not understand the maquis that these aids constitute. Social workers in the local missions themselves are lost. There are multiple criteria and conditions, changes from year to year. And you're just gonna thicken that fog! Let us take a few examples. Some cited the young active RSA. Do you know how many people benefit from it? 700, 7000, 70000? In the entire territory, there are only 734, as many conditions to touch it. It is necessary "to have worked for at least two years on a full-time basis during the three years preceding the date of application", but of course "internship periods are not considered to be periods of activity", even if "hours of activity completed under a contract of volunteer service in the armed forces, except for hours of training". As a result, we have a nice national scheme with only 700 beneficiaries. The crisis is an opportunity for the majority to add new devices, or to reactivate old ones. This is the case with assistance in the search for the first job (ARPE). After abolishing it in 2019, the Government re-established it in February 2021 but with a small difference: previously, it consisted of paying, four months after their studies, 100% of their scholarship to former fellows; Now it'll be only 70 per cent. There are no small savings. And the simple fact of exercising a small job as a self-sustainer, at Uber Eats, for example, is enough to be excluded from its profit. The aid for the installation was also mentioned: barely launched in February 2021, it was rendered inoperative the same month. I gathered testimony about this: "There wasn't enough money! » On the site, we read: "The number of registered files exceeding the limit of the financial envelope for this grant, new applications are no longer accepted." In less than a month, therefore, there was no longer enough funding for this scheme. Last year, in 48 hours, which has bluffed many entrepreneurs, one million companies were able to access state-guaranteed loans and partial unemployment, i.e. universal coverage. What are you proposing? The universal youth guarantee is your big thing! You're gonna have to explain to me what she's all about. I did the test on the site: if you answer positively to the question "Your parents pay taxes? "According to the information you have completed, you do not meet the conditions to benefit from the Youth Guarantee"; "Are you enrolled in a school? "...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u243	But that's not true! This has been changed!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u244	...has it changed? Well, that's great! However, if you go to the site, you will find the same message. "Do you take a training course? "Do you have a job? "Do you get the civic service allowance? In each of these cases, you cannot benefit from it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u245	But that makes sense.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u246	There are clauses in all directions, which make you absolutely cannot be eligible.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u247	Go see the local missions!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u248	Yes, go see them!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u249	But I went to see the local missions!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u250	It's not a dialogue, though!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u251	Please, ladies and gentlemen, let the rapporteur finish his remarks. I remind you, Mr Ruffin, that it is not a question of redeveloping all your arguments, but of responding to what has been said.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u252	François Ruffin gets caught!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u253	Thank you, Mr. Mélenchon. I ask you to let the rapporteur speak.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u254	Your universal youth guarantee eliminates from the top and bottom. Why up there? Because it excludes poor students: they represent at least hundreds of thousands of people. But it also eliminates from the bottom: you say that you must go immediately to employment. If you question associations such as the Fondation Abbé Pierre or ATD Quart Monde, they will explain to you that it is not possible to ask a young person who encounters health problems, housing difficulties or with his family, to go immediately to employment! So you are proposing a device that is intended to be universal, but which has lots of criteria and conditions and which eliminates from the top and from the bottom, I repeat. This is reflected in the figures anyway: 4 million young people; Among these, there are 1.5 million NEETs – neither in study nor in employment nor in training. Of this figure, one third, or 500,000, are in a very precarious situation. We are at the heart of the matter. Yet, with the doubling of the "universal" youth guarantee – I put the quotes in it – we will be able to reach 200000 young people at best! This figure does not even cover NEETs in very precarious situations, or poor students, I repeat.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u255	We can't even find them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u256	We have been facing for thirty years the refusal to deploy a universal mechanism that would cover everyone, instead of directing young people into a maquis, to which you add darkness. That's all you do! [[Marie-George Buffet applauds]] On the contrary, I plead for universality, including for children from rich families. Why not? I heard that would be a problem. It is important to know that the highest decile will not benefit from it, because in return, it will lose in terms of tax niches. This was calculated by an administrator. It is therefore wrong to say that this scheme would benefit the rich and you are much less scrupulous when it comes to abolishing the solidarity tax on wealth, offering a tax credit for competitiveness and employment (CICE), flattax and exit tax. You don't have a problem with that! When you want to put in place a measure in favour of young people in popular circles, you brand the map: "Beware! This could benefit wealthy families! " Good! No great progress has been made in our country without it being universal. When the pension system was introduced, one did not wonder whether it would apply to the rich or the poor, it is a universal system. Social security is not only for the poor, it is universal. The same applies to paid leave.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u257	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u258	[[Applause on the benches of the FI, GDR and SOC groups]] A system of protection for the poor quickly became a poor system of protection. Yes, I plead that all young people, from the age of 18, should be entitled to this scheme. It must serve as a springboard for them to go not only to employment, but also to housing, sport, culture, to find the paths of emancipation – an emancipation that, despite your great words, you refuse them, as usual.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u259	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u260	First of all, I would like to thank all the speakers and the rapporteur, whose full investment I have seen on the essential subject we are discussing today: the future of our young people and the support we want to give them. It is all to the honor and image of this assembly. Your bill raises the question of the most appropriate support for young people, all young people, whom we all know and meet on a daily basis. They're giving us their testimony and we're relaying it today. This question has two subjects: one structural, that is to say, the future we propose to them and the other cyclical, namely, how to respond to the crisis and be at their side.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u261	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u262	I therefore believe it is important to respond to the speakers right now – many points have been raised – because what we are discussing requires the greatest clarity on our part. As far as I am concerned, Mr rapporteur, I do not intend to cry out to answer, first of all out of courtesy, out of republican respect, but also because that is not my conception of the debate. I propose that we have a calm debate, as much as possible: we owe it to our young people. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Mr rapporteur, you cannot say that our country is getting poorer and that we are impoverishing young people: we are working with them every day. You do not have a monopoly on knowledge of reality.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u263	No, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u264	We also meet young people every day, and we are aware of their difficulties, which we are trying to resolve. To reply to the case of Maxime, which you mentioned, I will detail the aids to which he may have access and which we must make known: the maintenance of his stock exchange of 100 euros; up to EUR 500 of CROUS aid, with simplified procedures and ex post verification; a one-time aid of 150 euros paid to all scholarship students at the beginning of December; If his parents' resources decreased with the crisis in the last quarter of 2020, he can benefit from a review of his stock market situation; he may obtain the freezing of the fees of enrolment in the faculty; a State-guaranteed study loan; he can apply for a student job or seek a paid internship through the platform "1 young person, 1 solution" – 20,000 offers available today. He is also entitled to the university restaurant ticket at one euro, twice a day, since 25 January 2021. He will be able to obtain a simulation of the aids to which he is eligible on the compass of the site 1jeune1solution.gouv.fr. I would like to recall that we have put in place a 4000 euro hiring bonus for companies that recruit a person with a disability. On the question of Maxime's hearing aids, more specifically, it can have 100% health, i.e. a full refund for a zero-load leftover on a wide choice of hearing aids.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u265	So, in fact, there's no problem!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u266	It can also have access to the complementary health care at 8 euros per month until the age of 29, allowing for follow-up for two years with higher care. If he is on a career path, he can receive assistance from the Management Association of the Fund for the Vocational Integration of Persons with Disabilities (AGEFIPH) for the purchase and adjustment of hearing aids up to EUR 1600. I am quite willing to meet him, as well as the young people you quote, and to work with them, as well as with you. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] You say that we are doing business: 13.8 billion euros within the Ministry's remit; €9 billion dedicated to the "1 young, 1 solution" plan; 200000 youth guarantees; 2 million routes for young people. Is that what you call DIY? Is that a tweaking thing? You say that the devices are bogus: 1.5 million young people recruited, 500,000 apprenticeship contracts signed. These results are not bogus: they are indisputable. Again, you oppose: you oppose, in your speech, young people to the older ones, as if they had to be so to exist – this is your vision! But working for the elderly is not taking anything away from young people. We don't undress Paul to dress James.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u267	Who are you answering? Nobody said that!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u268	You tell us that the youth guarantee eliminates from the top, i.e. poor students, but they too are entitled to scholarships on criteria; and we would eliminate from the bottom by forcing NEETs to work. That's not true! We accompany them to help them find their way and only that matters. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] I would also like to address Mrs Autain. You say that on February 18, we handed over the subject. I would remind you, however, that on 18 February, after three hours of debate, it was the Socialist and related group that withdrew its bill! The Government and the majority were ready and willing to continue the discussions. You tell us that we deny young people the right not to be miserable. I can't let you say that! The difference between us is the method. For us, the key is to do everything we can to help young people find a job. That is how to combat poverty effectively, especially among young people. You claim that economic literature is unanimous on the subject. That's not true. Moreover, even the 5th College of the National Council for Policies to Combat Poverty and Social Exclusion (CNLE), of which I salute the President, which brings together thirty-two precarious people, has not voted in favour of the RSA. Do they, too, ignore misery when they wonder about the best answer to be given? You tell us, quite caricatureally, that we only love the rich. All the policies deployed in emergency in the face of the crisis, like the plan 1 young, 1 solution, all these tangible acts prove the opposite! Mr Chassaigne stressed the food insecurity caused by the crisis of the Covid-19. The crisis has demonstrated, it is true, the need to respond urgently and in the short term. Two exceptional plans were deployed in 2020 to support food aid and associations, as well as to provide direct aid to the population: EUR 39 million for food aid, including EUR 10 million in the form of food emergency cheques; 50 million were released for the homeless; a new 55 million emergency plan deployed in July 2020, not to mention the support plan for anti-poverty associations: EUR 100 million, of which EUR 50 million has already been committed. Mr Chassaigne also stated that we did not measure the economic and social shock: 1.5 million young people recruited and 500,000 apprenticeship contracts signed do they not show that we have measured this shock and that we have adopted measures that bear fruit? He also asked us to provide for sustainable arrangements. I fully share this view. That is why we have, for good, re-aligned the remuneration, and extended this re-evaluation, of trainees in vocational training, set up the public service of integration and employment or opened the criteria of the youth guarantee. Mrs Corneloup, like all the speakers and the rapporteur, you make a point that we share: the difficulties faced by our young people are immense. This is proof that we can know the situation of young people and disagree with your proposal for a law, Mr rapporteur. Mrs Corneloup also made strong observations on the situation of young people, while also being opposed to the opening of the RSA to young people. I thank her for encouraging us, like many of you, to continue our efforts in the area of youth guarantees. The choice made to strengthen the existing one largely suits it. So we are moving in the right direction. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Karamanli, I do not hide my surprise at hearing that we have refused your February 18 bill. It was you who, after three hours of debate, made the choice to withdraw it: it was therefore not voted on and, therefore, was not refused. Like many here, you compared our social system to that of other countries; But it's comparing what's not comparable. The Dutch system that you cite as an example does not offer the equivalent of an RSA paid to young people: it is closer to a system of grants awarded on social criteria, in increments – it is an interesting device, but it is not the RSA. You say that this bill would give a right to survive, but that is precisely what we do not want for young people.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u269	How they treat young people!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u270	We want them to be able to live simply: this is the objective of the "1 young, 1 solution" system, whose effectiveness you emphasize, and which allows you to start in life with something other than a survival allowance. I would also like to support the words of Mr El Guerrab and Mrs Cloarec - Le Nabour: what we want is to do hand-sewn, placing the accompaniment at the centre of the devices. That is how we oppose this bill in substance. Finally, like you, Mr Zumkeller, I cannot resolve to see in the RSA the only or best solution for young people. At the age of 18 or 24, one seeks one's way, a job, a training, one seeks one's place in society.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u271	We're studying!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u272	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] The young RSA does not answer this – in this I fully agree with your remarks, Mr.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u273	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u274	I now call the articles of the bill in the text originally before the House, since the committee has not adopted any text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u275	Mrs Marie-George Buffet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u276	The young guarantee and plan 1 young, 1 solution are not as effective as you say, since this very morning it was understood on the radio that a new device would be born before the holidays, supported personally by the President of the Republic: an allowance of 500 euros.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u277	It's not the same thing!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u278	[[Applause on several benches in the FI group]] Of course, I hope that all young people will be able to study as long as possible and obtain the best skills and qualifications, because the country needs them. That is why we propose to allocate a student income to all young people in France. Too many young people cannot continue their education because neither they nor their families have the means to do so. Of course, we want every young person, once he or she has acquired skills and qualifications, to find a lasting job, on an indefinite contract, that will enable him or her to pursue a career and develop skills that are ever more effective and useful to all his or her compatriots. Yes, we want all of this. The committee of inquiry to measure and prevent the effects of the covid-19 crisis on children and young people has, moreover, put forward many proposals to this effect: among those voted unanimously by the Commissioners was the young RSA. In fact, the young RSA is not a measure for twenty years: it is a measure that must make it possible to survive now, to buy food, hygiene products or books to study.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u279	We've got to close, MP.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u280	[[Vif applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] Don't say that some young people aspire to live with the RSA! They have other ambitions than living with help: they just want to get past the road and pursue a real life.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u281	In order to ensure that the agenda of the niche of the Group of the European People's Party is respected, I ask the speakers to respect the time allotted to them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u282	Thank you for your consideration for La France insoumis!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u283	[[Smile]] That's because the president is on the left!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u284	Mrs Mireille Robert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u285	My speech will not surprise you. However, I would like to say to the rapporteur that I share his diagnosis. Like him, the teacher I am cannot resolve to see poverty grow among young people. In this regard, the crisis reveals our collective flaws. [[Exclaims on FI and GDR benches]] I share your fight for young people, rapporteur; I even think we can discuss it calmly to get closer. Yes, there is an urgent need: the Government responds, but we must build beyond the urgency. That is the meaning of your proposal, and, as you have understood, I do not share the method you are advocating to get young people out of their difficulties. I believe in an incentive policy, in training counterpart, and in the commitment of young people. I cannot resolve to think that an unconditional RSA would be a gateway to independence and emancipation. You know that in rural areas, poverty is no age. I am convinced that policies need to be differentiated according to the age of life. Yes, the device we inherited from Michel Rocard needs to be improved, but not necessarily by extending the RSA to students and under 25. Rather, I would like to see an improvement in the scholarship system, because failure affects, above all, the most modest students, who are obliged to have regular paid work.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u286	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u287	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] I would also like to see improved housing arrangements for all young people, but I believe above all in the emancipatory virtue of the contract that we have to make with them for their future. With a plan of one young person, one solution, with 9 billion euros, the Government has created mechanisms to alleviate an unprecedented crisis. Our first duty was to ensure that everything did not fall apart: with Minister Bruno Le Maire, we succeeded. This is the first step in the rebound we want for our businesses. My colleagues in the Republic on the move will tell us about the universal youth guarantee, on which the Government is working at the initiative of the Minister for Labour, Employment and Integration, Elizabeth Borne.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u288	Thank you, Congresswoman.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u289	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Simplify to better include, contract to incentivize: these are the terms of a sustainable scheme.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u290	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 3 and 19, to delete Article 1. Mrs Josiane Corneloup has the floor to support Amendment No. 3.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u291	It was tabled by my colleague Fabien Di Filippo. Article 1 aims to open the RSA to young people from 18 years of age, compared to 25 years of age at present, and to remove the condition of not being a pupil, student or trainee to benefit from it. The financing of this measure is not mentioned, while the number of RSA recipients has increased sharply since the start of the health crisis, representing a cost to public finances of more than EUR 11 billion. Of course, the current crisis particularly affects young people, sometimes deprived of a job that allows them to pay for their education and to meet daily expenses. However, as has been said, many schemes already exist to help young people in precarious situations: scholarships, APL, low tuition fees and RSA young active. Young people sometimes find it difficult to find their role and place. It is essential to help them plan for the future, rather than lock them in attendance and inactivity. The priority is to enable them to find an activity and develop their skills and skills. Therefore, the purpose of this amendment is to delete Article 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u292	On the identical deletion amendments Nos 3 and 19, and then on Article 1, if the deletion amendments were not adopted, I am seized by the Group of the European People's Party (La France) that requests for public ballots have not been submitted. Both elections are announced in the National Assembly. Mrs Christine Cloarec - Le Nabour, to support Amendment No. 19.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u293	We all share the objective of combating the precarious situation of young people – this has been stated on several occasions – but we believe that priority should be given to support and social or vocational integration, in a comprehensive approach to the individual, combined with a provision of assistance or a guarantee of resources that allows young people not to give up a path of integration or study. Since the beginning of the crisis, the Government has worked to fill the gaps and to secure young people who, until then, were not. I am thinking of those who are followed by Pôle Emploi in the context of the intensive accompaniment of young people (AIJ), those who are included in APEC's Objective 1 Employment Programme – Association for the Employment of Executives –, those who are still in pre-apprenticeship or who are accompanied in institutions for integration into employment (EPID) or in schools of second chance. I am also thinking of former scholarship students, who can benefit from a few months of guaranteed resources. However, this is not the panacea, which is why the Government has decided to work on a universal youth guarantee. On the one hand, it is a question of strengthening the strengthened support mechanism, which is the youth guarantee, because it works – I invite you to accompany me to the local missions to see it yourself, Mr Ruffin. On the other hand, it is a question of proposing a unified guarantee of resources, subject to a scale and subject to entry into an integration route. Finally, let us not forget the young people who are in advance of entry into the labour market and who need to be remobilised: we must give some flexibility to the social workers in order to accompany them and encourage them to enter a path of integration.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u294	We've got to close, MP.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u295	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] You will see it tonight, if you look at the documentary dedicated to local missions: they are a lever of success and social and professional integration for young people.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u296	What is the committee's opinion on these deletion amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u297	[[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] It is on behalf of the funding that you are requesting the deletion of Article 1. I am not opposed to the fact that the state now takes over, instead of the departments, the income of active solidarity: it is up to it to take on such a strong social policy!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u298	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u299	Strangely enough, when it comes, in 48 hours, to saving companies for tens and hundreds of billions of euros, the question of financing does not arise for a single moment. When you remove the solidarity tax on wealth, or when you introduce exit tax, flattax and company, you don't ask yourself for a moment the question of financing! It happens whenever you want, that is, when it comes to helping the most fragile. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] You pride yourself on the plan "1 young, 1 solution", but you have to understand the logic that it hides, which has lasted for thirty years. It is said that we want to make tailor-made and hand-sewn, but when we wanted to save the companies from the crisis, we did not launch a "1 company plan, 1 solution", by studying the situation of each company – what can they do, what are their resources and their finances? On the contrary, a general safety net was provided. [[Ms ChristineCloarec-Le Nabourprotestte]] These solutions must not be opposed: first, a general safety net must be drawn and then hand-sewn and personalized accompaniment must be made. I repeat, the safety net must be general and valid for all. Yours doesn't have a hole, he's got a hole in the middle! He's not planning anything for poor students. I would remind you that when parents have 900 euros of income for both, their student child is not at the maximum level of scholarships and is not entitled to 560 euros per month. When both parents are at the SMIC, the student is entitled to 100 euros per month. You say it should be enough to study: it's a lie! You condemn students to work alongside their studies. What's Amanda doing? She gets up at five and a half in the morning to baby-sitting, then she's cashier in a supermarket in the evening, after college classes. That is what you condemn the youth of the popular circles! Why does the RSA provoke such reactions? Because it is addressed to popular youth, student or not, and we are here in a bourgeois place.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u300	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u301	We're all here in the last decile, including me!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u302	What happens when you let the only family solidarity play? The poorest, those whose income is in the first decile, despite a higher rate of effort – they spend 13% of their income on their children, which is huge – can only give their offspring a hundred euros a month. The richest, while they are making a smaller effort – its rate is only 8% – can grant 600 to 700 euros per month to their children, because they have much more resources, allowing them to pay rent and to disperse, with the help of the APLs. Yet, for the richest, no one speaks of "assistanat", or "beaked". All of you here find it laudable or normal to help your own children. And I, too, intend to help my own people, so that they can continue their studies, form and flourish in life, knowing that I will not be accused at any time of favoring assistance. When it comes to providing the same assistance to modest families in our country, however, it is! [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] No! It is necessary to allow everyone to emancipate himself, to give each one a base on which to lean, to direct himself in life. However, you do not accept this, by not allowing social, national solidarity, alongside family solidarity.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u303	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that, on the days reserved for the consideration of bills, the rules for the management of speaking time are particularly strict and require the adjournment of the morning sitting at 1 p.m., which I will do after the Government's opinion on these deletion amendments. Speakers who wish to speak – Mr Pahun, Ms Cariou and Messrs. Zumkeller, Wulfranc, Mesnier and Vallaud – will therefore unfortunately only be able to do so at the next sitting at 15.00. What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u304	The Government is in favour of the deletion of Article 1, since our ambition for youth, as I said earlier, goes far beyond the RSA.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u305	Your ambition is not to have one!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u306	We cannot be satisfied with the plan to give this only perspective to young people. In the face of the current crisis, which is unprecedented, we are multiplying the aid, the solutions, to respond to the difficulties of young people – whose faces are numerous –, in a personalized way, with the emphasis on accompaniment as closely as possible. The crisis also requires legibility and stability. This proposal is therefore not taking place at the right time and would weaken the whole system of allowances. Finally, in response to the demands of young people who face more difficulties than their elders, we have launched ambitious work on the youth guarantee, in consultation with all recognized actors.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u307	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-06-O1265.u308	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Further consideration of the proposal for a law to extend active solidarity income for young people aged 18 to 25; Proposal for a law on the limitation of the negative impact of advertising; Proposal for a law establishing the guarantee of employment by the employer State as a last resort; Proposal for a law to introduce a tax on crisis profitors; Proposal for a law to introduce full proportional representation in the general election; Proposal for a law establishing a common public domain in order to combat the precariousness of professionals in the arts and culture; Proposal for a law on the prohibition of "plant farms". The meeting is adjourned.
