ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u1	The next item is the debate on the proposal for a law on health accessible to all and against medical desertification (No 4589, 4711). Mr Sebastien Jumel, rapporteur of the Committee on Social Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u2	We are talking this morning about at least 11 million French and French. They live in all our territories: in Seine-Maritime, in all Normandy, in Auvergne, in Seine-Saint-Denis, in the overseas, in the city or in the countryside. Everywhere, the finding is the same, documented, quantified, analyzed for years: in their homes, the provision of care is deficient; They live in what are called medical deserts. Unfortunately, this expression has entered into the current language. We have all heard the same stories and questions in our ridings. How do I get his prescription renewed when there's no more generalists? How do I get to a specialist when he doesn't have a replacement? How can I get a cure if there's no doctor near us? It is to these daily tragedies that the group of the Democratic and Republican Left wants to respond today. This bill is not intended to provoke controversy, but rather to bring us together. The yellow vest movement and the great national debate have brought this issue to light as one of the main concerns of the French. The solution to the central problem of medical deserts is neither left nor right, as the other would say. It is of national interest. A few figures to tell us about the problem and to share a diagnosis together: the medical density has been falling steadily in recent years, increasing between 2012 and today from 325 to 318 doctors per 100,000 inhabitants; Inequality in our territory is growing and growing, with regions in southern France benefiting from a generally more favourable medical density than those in the North. The former Picardie, Centre and Pays de la Loire regions have particularly low densities, between 127 and 130 general practitioners per 100,000 inhabitants. Many indicators have been created to measure this complex phenomenon. All points to a very worrying situation. For example, the "potential localized accessibility" indicator created by the Ministry of Health in 2012 shows that the rate of people living in a medical desert has increased from 8.6 per cent in 2015 to 11.6 per cent today. Even the so-called overdensity areas are affected, as they are experiencing medical desertification by credit cards. The observation is striking! There is a clear correlation, already denounced by the Court of Auditors: where there are more doctors, there are many excesses of fees. In Paris, which has 765 per 100,000 inhabitants, 62% of doctors are in excess of fees; In the Alpes-Maritimes, 42% of doctors are in excess of fees. Our most modest citizens living in an over-dense zone do not always have the means to pay for a consultation with a specialist. Some well-equipped territories must therefore be regarded as financial medical deserts. The structural shortage of doctors has a cascading impact, particularly on the hospital. Almost all departments have experienced an increase in the number of emergencies in recent years. As a result, there is a greater risk of saturation of emergency services in subdenses. In addition, we must all be struck by the vacancy rate for hospital practitioners: it is over 30%! That says something about the very difficult situation in which our hospitals are today after the ravages of the covid, the risk of blackout of the Rist law, and the thousands of beds removed. The work that I have been doing is looking more particularly at some of the more striking areas. In the overseas regions, the situation is even more worrying. In the rural areas as heavily affected, the average population lives two years less than the urban population. I also stress that these difficulties in access to care affect the most economically fragile French people as a matter of priority: poor people are three times more likely to give up care than others. If they are in underfunded areas, this risk is more than eight times higher than that of the rest of the population! Finally, I would like to point out that 11 per cent of our citizens do not have a doctor: this represents 6 million people. The UFC-Que choix interviewed doctors: in these areas, 44% of them refused new patients, and we can understand them! This is a real medical time bomb. The situation is therefore very serious. Of course, actions have been taken for several years to try to stem this phenomenon, I do not deny it! In particular, the 2019 law transformed the numerus clausus. This Malthusian system, which has been in force since 1971, has, over the years, helped to put an end to the provision of care: its reform is good news. But I would like to warn you here that it will take at least ten years to produce its first effects.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u3	In the best case!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u4	It is only in 2030 that we will begin to stop medical bleeding. And it is not because the number of doctors is going to increase that they will automatically settle in areas where they are sorely needed! Without territorial regulation, the transformation of the numerus clausus may not change the current situation. Other actions have been taken, and I list them in the report. Most of them fall under incentive mechanisms, and the regional health agencies (RHAs) interviewed and the ministry have not been able to clearly demonstrate their effectiveness. At the same time, the My Health 2022 plan was to allow the deployment of 4000 medical assistants by next year. To date, more than 2760 full-time equivalents remain to be created to achieve the Government's goal! So you will agree that the account is not there. And we do not even have real visibility on the territorial distribution of their deployment. Local and regional authorities are also heavily mobilized, sometimes in parallel with the State. This leads to potentially harmful competition. A few weeks ago we saw a commune in the English Channel, Barneville-Carteret, not to mention it, faced with totally unrealistic demands from a doctor who, to come and settle there, wanted butter, butter money, the smile of the cream tree and tutti quaanti.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u5	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u6	We must therefore remedy this situation quickly! We cannot afford to wait ten more years. Our bill sets out some avenues that I believe are realistic and able to respond quickly to this major problem. Many levers are available to us, and first of all to training. In the new system of apertus numerus, the State establishes multi-year admission targets that take into account the training capacities and health needs of the territories. However, it appears that these needs remain far above the number of trained students. That is why Article 1 of my bill requires that the number of students trained depends solely on the health needs of the territories. This should enable universities to adapt to meet these needs and encourage the State to strengthen the resources allocated to them. As regards training, I propose, in Article 2, to generalise the public service contract (PSEC). This scheme allows medical and odontology students to receive a sum of 1200 euros gross per month during the duration of their studies. They undertake in return to exercise in a subdensity zone. This scheme should be generalized: today, only 7% of graduates can benefit from it and the various analyses point to its modest success. Secondly, article 3 of the bill deals with a recurring issue when talking about medical deserts: the selective agreement of doctors. Today, nurses, midwives and massage therapists are under this regime: they are prohibited from settling in overdenses except in the event of a cessation of activity. This option has for the time being been excluded for physicians. However, reports from many institutions agree that this is a way of balance that would not undermine the foundations of freedom of establishment, while allowing for action on the geographical distribution of doctors. To the Republicans Group, I would like to recall that Mr.Sautarel, Senator LR du Cantal, and many other senators LR tabled a similar bill last June.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u7	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u8	I would also like to remind the Group of the Republic on the move that forty-three of its members wrote to the Minister of Health in October asking for a similar mechanism to be put in place.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u9	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u10	[[Caroline Fiat applauds]] The President of the Republic himself said, about ten days ago, that access to care was a central issue and that things needed to move. Are you actually going to move them? [[Approval on GDR benches]] The discussions in committee have shown that many colleagues are not debating the mechanism that I am proposing! It is not a question of deconcentrating doctors, nor of preventing citizens from having access to a contracted doctor, but simply of conditioning the installation of a doctor in areas overdenses upon the cessation of another doctor's activity. I also propose reorienting funding for inefficient facility incentives to local and regional authorities so that they can set up health centres. My bill also aims, in its Article 5, to define the principle of equal access to care, by setting a maximum of 30 minutes from home for access to care; Remember that 6 million of our fellow citizens are beyond this limit. Finally, Article 6 proposes to extend the scope of activity of community hospitals, giving content to their definition. In particular, it would be a matter of developing advanced consultations, as well as surgery and obstetrics: in view of the fact that I have just made, it seems to me that we cannot avoid the debate on this subject, that we cannot afford to deprive our fellow citizens who live far from a hospital centre of these two medical activities. The work in the Committee on Social Affairs has shown one thing: the working Republic Group rejects all my proposals as a whole, without making any alternative!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u11	How amazing!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u12	It should be limited to waiting for the increase in the number of students trained to produce its effects. It's unrealistic and dangerous. The La République en marche group even rejected one of my amendments which included a wording already proposed by the same group in 2019! Ladies and gentlemen, on this subject, we must work seriously and come together. This bill formulates realistic ambitions, based on a well-established state of affairs and which must lead us to action. We cannot stay ten more years in this situation. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR, SOC and FI groups]] We must take more effective measures to guarantee to all our citizens the constitutional right to health. Without this, the next ten years will be those of even greater medical desertification and in more of our territories. This debate is anything but a technical debate. Can we reaffirm the presence of the Republic everywhere and for all? That is the question.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u13	The Deputy Minister for Self-Government has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u14	We are here to discuss the proposal for a law on health accessible to all and against medical desertification, which has just been presented by its rapporteur, Mr Sébastien Jumel. This text deals with an essential issue, that of access to care in all territories. These tensions in the field of medical demography, because this is a matter of fact, are not new, even though the health crisis has brought them to light. For my part, I come from a rural area, so this is a subject that I know very well. And I'm fighting. In truth, this situation has its roots in decisions – mistakes, I should say – of public policies that have settled down for several decades; It can only be resolved over time. You are right, rapporteur: this is not a question of the left or the right, but a societal question that we have to solve collectively.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u15	It's a political question!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u16	It is for this reason that the Government and the majority have seized this subject from the beginning of the quinquennium to provide structural answers, setting several important milestones. I am thinking of the plan to strengthen territorial access to care presented in 2017, the My Health 2022 strategy adopted in 2018, and finally the Ségur de la santé, which has been declining since 2020. Among the major actions of the Government, I will mention in the first place the abolition of the numerus clausus and the first year common to health studies (PACES). These essential reforms enable more health professionals to be trained and thus provide a structural response to the shortage of doctors that we suffer after decades of immobilization. The prospects are there: the number of health professionals trained will increase by 15% over the period 2021-2025, but, as you know, ten years are needed to train a doctor who can provide care to the population. In a very concrete way, in 2020-2021, only for the medical sector, the number of students admitted in the second year increased by 30%. To respond now to the aspirations of young doctors and to facilitate their installation, particularly in subdenses, we have significantly supported the development of coordinated modes of exercise and collective structures. For example, there are now close to 1900 multi-professional health homes (MSPs) in operation and more than 300 ongoing projects, more than 2200 health centres, including 450 multi-professionals, and about 700 projects by local health professional communities (CPTS). Community hospitals are another important element of our strategy to ensure that primary care is available in all territories. In this way, we redefined their missions and stabilized their funding to strengthen these structures, strengthen the commitment of health professionals to participate in them and make them a real link in the territories with liberal doctors and other hospital and medical-social structures. In addition, in order to free up medical time, we have planned the creation of 4000 posts of medical assistants. More than 2000 contracts have already been signed, allowing for the care of more than 350,000 additional patients by treating physicians, more than half of whom in territories under stress. As part of the My Health 2022 strategy, we have planned the recruitment of 400 general practitioners in the less well-equipped areas; Of these posts, 241 are already filled or will be filled in the near future. We have also supported the development of telemedicine throughout the health crisis and have taken several steps to sustain this dynamic in the common law. Almost overnight, we went from a few hundred teleconsultations a week to 1 million during the crisis. We hope that this practice will continue as it contributes to improved access to care in all territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u17	Are you sure?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u18	I will also mention the commitments we have made in the framework of the Ségur de la santé to improve the careers of caregivers in the health and medico-social sectors and to support investment. This unprecedented effort in the recent history of health policy will go a long way towards strengthening the attractiveness of care professions, as well as the sustainability and modernization of facilities and facilities. In total, more than 3000 institutions will be supported, of which more than 50% are small. This commitment to health and access to care is considerable and continues to be deployed in all territories. Access to health care is one of the main thrusts of the Social Security Financing Act (PLFSS) for 2022, which you have finally adopted on Monday, 29 November, and which provides in particular for the fluidisation of the visual sector, the improvement of direct access to new professions, and the generalisation of the management of tele-surveillance by health insurance. In addition, the Act introduces the provision of psychological counselling through health insurance, which will improve access to the treatment of mild or moderate psychological disorders in all territories. These are great advances that you have voted to improve access to care. Thus, I thank you for providing us with the opportunity to discuss this important topic and to take stock of the Government's actions. Nevertheless, we consider that this text does not propose the right solutions to address it in the circumstances we are currently experiencing.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u19	You're wrong!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u20	Indeed, in the context of this bill, you propose to question the freedom of installation of doctors...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u21	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u22	This is your response to medical deserts. You propose to impose the conclusion of a public service contract for all young doctors – I know this mechanism well for having discussed it with them – and to introduce a selective agreement in an over-dense zone, which would be conditioned at the departure of another doctor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u23	Yes.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u24	In fact, this is a misconception, because the stakes of medical demography are valued without geographical boundaries. And it is not appropriate to manage a situation of generalized tension through new and suddenly imposed constraints, which would only increase inequalities in access to care.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u25	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u26	With regard to the territorial approach to the training needs of students in the health sector, this concern is fully satisfied by the reform of health studies and the abolition of the numerus clausus, which allows the use of the needs of the territories to define the capacity of universities to receive them. We also regret that it is proposed to review the start-of-exercise contract created by the Social Security Financing Act for 2020 to propose a unified facility support scheme, which secures young doctors' early years in order to enable them to build up a patient. As for the missions of community hospitals, it does not seem appropriate or even possible to integrate surgical and obstetric activities, whose organizational requirements are not compatible with these proximity structures dedicated to primary care. As you will understand, if we share with the authors of this bill the concern to ensure access to care in all territories, we differ on the proposed solutions. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] The problem of access to care will not be resolved in one day, simply by decreeing a change in the rules applicable to medical professions. On the contrary, we are convinced that it is by opting for ambitious but pragmatic measures, accompanied by means commensurate with the stakes, that we can make a useful contribution on this subject. Guided by these principles, the Government will continue its determined efforts to transform our health system and meet the strong expectations of our fellow citizens, in order to ensure quality and accessible care for everyone regardless of their place of life.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u27	In the general debate, Mr Alain Bruneel spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u28	During this Parliament, we put forward five bills to implement a health policy to respond to a state of emergency. They were all rejected by your majority without any discussion. We can only regret it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u29	Yes, that's unfortunate!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u30	Sébastien Jumel, on behalf of our group, is presenting a sixth bill for a health accessible to all and to combat medical desertification.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u31	What a constancy!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u32	This is not to be taken or left behind, but to be discussed – this is the state of mind that drives our group. The report presented by Sébastien Jumel bears witness to a situation under stress: the difficulties get worse day after day; the health care staff is exhausted, skimmed out, in burn-out; staff and resources are sorely lacking; equal care in the territories is broken. Perspectives are drawn: we invite you to take the path of constructive discussion. It is necessary to take the time to exchange, to set milestones to avoid the departure of exhausted caregivers and to meet their expectations as well as those of patients. Here are some testimonies gathered during our tour of France of hospitals started in 2018: "Health is not a commodity. That's not the job I learned. We always have to run. We don't have time anymore. We're understaffed. We disorganize the organization. Our will was to listen to staff, management, unions, collectives and patients. We have taken into account their ill-being, but also their proposals. It is in this context that we have co-written a bill. [[Caroline Fiat applauds]] At that time, we made an alarming observation. Indeed, this tour was an announcement of the upcoming disaster. The health crisis has highlighted the weaknesses of our health system, but the malaise has not occurred since yesterday. The alarm has been ringing for a long time; However, despite health care workers' warnings, strikes and SOS, in recent years, we have witnessed a systematic destruction of our health care system. Consequential expenditure reduction policies have brought health to its knees, which is a vital common good. While the right to health is one of the fundamental rights of every human being, the steady decline in medical demography makes access to health care increasingly difficult for many of our fellow citizens. Taking up a medical appointment is sometimes part of the combatant's journey, and this is happening in many parts of our country. The recent survey published in Marianne provides a frightening overview of inequalities in access to care in 314 cities. This situation, more than degraded, is unbearable. The average waiting time at the national level for an appointment with an ophthalmologist is one hundred and fifty-eight days; for an appointment with a general practitioner, it is twenty-one days; For an appointment with a gynecologist, it's a hundred a day. I will end with an example that highlights how aberrant this situation is: the average waiting time at the national level to get an appointment at the pediatrician is seventy-four days!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u33	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u34	With such delays, for sure, thousands of citizens will give up their health care. A social divide is widening throughout the territory. In 2017, 3.1% of people aged 16 or older living in metropolitan France, or 1.6 million people, gave up medical care, according to INSEE's "Statistiques sur les ressources et les conditions de vivre" survey. When taking into account the characteristics of respondents, such as age, gender, diploma or labour market conditions, people affected by insecurity are three times more likely to give up care than others. In addition, in an area heavily underfunded by general practitioners, the risk of giving up on such care is eight times higher than that of the rest of the population. Unfortunately, these serious difficulties are likely not to be resolved immediately: in March 2021, the Directorate of Research, Studies, Evaluation and Statistics (DREES) published a dossier on recent and future demographics for the medical and pharmaceutical professions. According to this study, the number of general practitioners will stagnate until 2030, while the care needs of an aging France will increase. I take this opportunity to alert you to the situation of medical students. Their journey requires a lot of investment and sacrifice. It must be noted that these young people are now facing unfair reform. The capacity for reception was to increase, but promises are not on the table. The Government has decided to introduce a reform aimed at changing the profile of students by transforming the PACES into a health license. However, while the aim of the reform was commendable, its implementation was catastrophic. It's the cold shower! I have received many testimonies of distress. Marie, a first-year medical student, told me: "Today I am 19. I find myself facing a wall: if I fail, I don't know what I'm going to do because I'm only interested in health. I'm in a state of disrepair. It's psychologically very difficult to think that maybe we're doing all this for nothing! In case of failure, some students will go abroad to train; I can't afford it. So I will have to resist to abandon my vocation and my dreams. » As you can see, future doctors are shot before they graduate. Anxiety, depression, exhaustion: their health is in danger. Once again and through the parliamentary day reserved for him, my group proposes a law on health accessible to all and against medical desertification. The aim of this text is to establish a set of measures which are essential to combat the shortage, but also to improve access to care for the entire French population, without exception, and thus to achieve greater social justice in the field of health. It's a bad time. Take advantage of this proposal. Access to care is a national priority. Action must be taken to combat medical desertification. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group. – Mrs Caroline Fiat also applauds]] The emergency is now. The answer is here, so don't miss the check. Let's get the sanitary landscape back together.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u35	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u36	Mrs Stéphanie Rist has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u37	We are meeting today to discuss the proposed law on accessible health and medical desertification. It is with great humility that our group approaches the examination of this text, as the difficulties of access to care are real in our territories. Many of us have been mobilized to improve access to care, but if we share your observation about the difficulties we face in our territories, we do not adhere to the solutions that you propose in this text: exercising, as parliamentarians, our mandate for the same purpose, that of improving people's lives, but we sometimes do so – often – with different visions. We inherited a life-long health care system, after more than twenty years of financial constraints and the application of a clausus numerus that has weighed heavily on our medical demography. As soon as our majority came to power, many measures, which I will not all be able to present here, were taken to improve access to care: more trained professionals, more cooperation between professionals, more medical time given to doctors. With the end of the numerus clausus, the number of medical students increased by 19.4% in 2021 – this had not been seen in 50 years!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u38	Is that 19.4% or 30%, Madam Minister?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u39	The aim is to double the number of multi-professional health homes and health centres. We have to keep moving. Since the beginning of the legislature, and again this week, we have proposed many advances in the delegation of tasks and advanced practices – I am thinking in particular of the possibility given to orthoptists to make visual assessments, direct access to physiotherapists or speech therapists, whom we are experimenting with, or the authorization of first-time prescriptions for nurses in advanced practice. All these measures free up time for doctors and improve access to care; Again, we must continue. You propose the territorialization of medical training, with the aim of increasing the number of doctors trained according to local needs. The law on the organization and transformation of the health system, defended by our majority, has already abolished the numerus clausus; The main principle was that the number of students would be fixed on the basis of a proposal from the universities, following the agreement of the regional health agencies to adapt to the territories and training capacities. Articles 2 and 3 make the installation of doctors subject to coercive measures – I have no doubt that we will have an interesting debate on the subject. Article 2 proposes, in a political approach, the establishment of a national compulsory and paid health service for students: we are not in favour of it. If, at first glance, the idea of selective agreement in Article 3 may seem attractive, we believe that it would actually aggravate the situation, for three main reasons. First, given the too small number of doctors, it would oblige patients to consult an unconventional physician and therefore to bear the financial burden of non-reimbursement. Then, it may encourage medical students to choose other specialties or other modes of exercise: you will have ended general liberal medicine. Finally, the countries that have embarked on this path have finally given up, given the inefficiency of the measure and the worsening of the situation – these are the facts. As for article 6, he claims to extend the activity of community hospitals to surgery or obstetrics. It's an unrealistic injunction! We are defending a system that offers every Frenchman close care, which involves, among other things, valuing and strengthening the supply of primary care. It is with this in mind that we have transformed the organisation of city medicine, with the establishment of territorial occupational health communities and the labelling of community hospitals. We believe that, in order to preserve the quality of care, a graduated hospital response must be offered, freeing up resources, changing the way these institutions are financed, changing the way of governance and involving the professionals of the city, who can now care for their patients in the community hospital. So, yes, we have an ambition for these hospitals! We believe that we must continue to show voluntarism, continue to simplify the lives of caregivers, continue to develop delegation of tasks, advanced practice and cooperation, and continue to strengthen incentives for settlement in under-funded areas. But we believe that the issue of access to care is not limited to access to doctors, on which your bill focuses; There are many other innovative measures to take! [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] You pursue with this text a primary objective: to improve access to care, but the answers you provide are either demagogic or ineffective, and they would make the situation worse. Therefore, as in committee, we will propose the deletion of the articles.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u40	Mrs Isabelle Valentin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u41	Health is a major issue, and access to care is a right for all. And yet! Some 40 years ago, in France, a phenomenon of medical desertification appeared, which has since continued to intensify and reach more and more territories. The current situation is the result of a fundamental trend. Field physicians no longer find replacements, which is particularly serious, as the need increases, due to the aging population. There are several reasons for this desertification, including the feminization of the profession, which led to an increase in part-time practice, which was not anticipated by the numerus clausus. At the same time, general medicine has lost its appeal to students, who are increasingly moving towards specializations: today, general medicine is one of the last chosen specialties. An October 2020 study by Place de la santé de la Mutalité française shows an alarming finding, revealing that medical deserts have increased in recent years and that they continue to grow. Medical desertification is one of the major concerns of our local elected officials. All are fighting to find solutions, often accompanied by departments and regions: health homes, paid doctors, itinerant buses: to everyone their method. Today, more than ever, we are facing a major health emergency, and we are all aware of it, especially since the Covid-19 has once again highlighted all the difficulties facing our health system. This is a subject that the Social Affairs Committee has seized since 2017. All political groups agree on the same point. Of course, this bill, presented by our colleagues in the GDR Group, has the merit of raising again all the issues related to this public health issue. It gives us the opportunity to express ourselves and to recall the distress of many French people, in the impossibility of accessing basic care and thereby abandoning regular medical follow-up, not to mention the many women with difficult access to a midwife or maternity, or the night emergency services that close. I therefore share, in substance, the diagnosis of our colleagues. However, the method chosen, if it may seem attractive, seems inappropriate to me, even if it is a laudable ambition to provide new tools for territories to combat medical desertification. For example, the territorialisation of the capacity to receive medical training, the obligation to enter into a public service contract, and the introduction of selective agreements at the facility may create a catalogue of administrative constraints which are difficult to operate and which, unfortunately, could be counterproductive in their use. Firstly, with regard to the territorialisation of the capacity to receive medical training, material and human reality will quickly remind us of the need for teachers, premises and even tutors. Then what about the public service contract obligation? Indeed, after many years of study and sacrifices, young doctors now wish to have the choice of place of their installation, they wish to be able to reconcile private and professional life, like all citizens, and to impose this obligation on them would have the opposite effect than you expect by further reducing the number of them who are moving towards liberal medicine. Nor can one argue that students should have a few years of their careers in the State, on the grounds that the latter allowed them to complete their studies: this is the case for most university courses. It should also be noted that medical students are paid from a certain level, but at a lower cost. Yet without our interns, hospitals wouldn't work. Lastly, the expansion of the activities of community hospitals should be possible only by way of derogation, on the basis of authorization from the Director of the ARS, and under conditions laid down by decree in the Council of State; Under no circumstances should it become systematic. All these new constraints could scare general practitioners and hinder their installation in practice. We believe that facilitating conditions for access to medical studies and improving the attractiveness of the profession, by focusing on city medicine, i.e. of immediate proximity, would be a more effective set of measures. If the Republican Group therefore agrees on the substance of the bill, it does not accept its form and will therefore vote against its adoption.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u42	Mr Cyrille Isaac-Sibille has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u43	The aim of the bill we are considering today is to curb the phenomenon of medical desertification and to reduce the difficulties of access to care, through radical and coercive measures. These include, for example, making the public service contract compulsory for all and imposing a selective agreement in the underfunded areas. We all share the same observation: there are real territorial disparities in access to health care and health professionals. We therefore understand the dismay of many of our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u44	Okay, so what?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u45	I would like to thank Sébastien Jumel and the Communist Group for highlighting the essential role of urban liberal medicine as a pillar of our community health system.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u46	Thank you for this tribute!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u47	General practitioners or specialists, nurses, liberal physiotherapists, all dedicate themselves daily to the service of our fellow citizens, in cities, towns and villages. They often work twice 35 hours a week, full of paperwork and administrative tasks – often because of us – without having the means to hire an assistant or secretary. Yet they are the first resort to care for our fellow citizens. I would like to make you think about a figure which alone sums up the problem we are debating this morning: only 8% of young doctors are moving into liberalism!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u48	What's that number?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u49	He's right, rapporteur!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u50	In fact, Mr rapporteur, you yourself pointed out in your report: "The Liberal exercise tends to be less and less favoured by young doctors. » But forcing them to settle where they do not want to drastically reduce the already very low rate that I have quoted, and will direct them towards paid jobs that, for the moment, do not miss – more than 3000 vacancies in hospitals. Foreign examples confirm the circumvention of measures such as those you propose: in Germany or Canada, for example, doctors have settled at the edge of desert areas. Moreover, the real risk is to achieve massive deconcentration, which will increase the financial inequalities in access to care! Article 3 proposes coercive measures that apply not only in the sub-donated areas – which are the core of the problem – but also in the properly provided areas! In the provision of care of a territory there are two systems: an administered medicine, hospital, and a city medicine, liberal. It is the latter that must be at the heart of our concerns.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u51	Free with the citizens' money!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u52	If Segur allowed a healthy breathing for the public hospital, liberal medicine was not given the same consideration. Yet it is now that we need to reinvigorate its attractiveness, which is crumbling from year to year. [[Bruno Joncour and Michel Fanget applaud]] The aim is therefore to better consider liberal medicine. That is what our communist colleagues are doing, which places it at the heart of this text. Let's make sure that's a good signal! Therefore, the answers are varied, diverse and will have to be adapted. It is necessary to fully accompany the installation of future doctors currently studying, to adapt us to their personal and family wishes, and to make them discover the underserved territories. This is not a view of the mind: concrete examples exist. I have already mentioned this, by next year, fifteen young general practitioners trained in Lyon will settle in Ardèche after having discovered this department during guards in fire barracks. It can work! In addition, as we have done for the past three years, cooperation protocols, group practice, as well as coordinated and multidisciplinary exercise, in the form of health centres, health homes, primary care teams or CPTS. The creation of medical assistants is also a success, which we must amplify. This dynamic will continue provided that simple digital tools are made available to professionals: I am thinking of telemedicine, telemonitoring. Indeed, the medical time of doctors is the same as it was forty years ago. We must therefore reinvent ourselves for the next ten years, the time that the end of the numerus clausus will produce its effects. This involves increasing the skills of all the paramedical professions, through what is called the theory of stairways. The situation we are in is the result of the choices made over the past thirty years by right-wing and left-wing governments, which have operated an accounting management of social security. [[Applause on a few benches of the Dem group]] In any case, if the Group of the European Democratic Movement (MODEM) and the Group of the European People's Party (Allied Democrats) recognises the work done by the rapporteur, we will not support this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u53	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u54	Health is one of the main concerns of our citizens, and access to care is one of the key issues. The proposal for a law is therefore highly topical. Numerous reports, studies and proposals have been made in this area for more than ten years. Measures have been taken, often inciting, and sometimes binding. However, so far, little has had a concrete effect on all those who do not have access to a general practitioner, who do not have a treating physician, or for whom the question will arise in the future. The bill we are discussing today aims, through a few articles, to build a coherent framework for the installation of doctors according to health needs. Article 1 seeks to ensure that the reception capacities of the second and third years of the first cycle guarantee an "optimal distribution of future health professionals in the territory in the light of health needs". The abolition of the numerus clausus for the benefit of the numerus apertus does not mean that the number of students trained will be unlimited, these should be distributed according to the needs. While this article deals only with training capacities, it remains that the training of the patient in bed involves hospital facilities, already trained doctors, caregivers working collectively, as well as general practitioners and city specialists ready to welcome and motivate their young confreres and sisters. This must be the subject of reflection and mobilization by all actors to ensure that the article is effective and that it is able to match, as it intends to do, the constraints of the training framework with the needs of a population whose conditions of access to a doctor are less and less equal depending on the place of life. Article 2 tends to make it compulsory for medical students to sign a public service contract and, if it maintains the payment of an allowance, it lays down the principle of a service obligation in areas where the provision of care is not considered reasonable and normal. In this regard, the text takes insufficient account of the current situation of the interns, which is a blind spot. Is it necessary to remember that young doctors, after six or seven years of study, must complete their boarding school in a hospital, for three to five years depending on the specialties chosen? Their weekly presence varies from sixty to one hundred hours, for a salary of 1500 euros per month. We must therefore be aware that a substantial part of health care activity is carried out with and by interns. Our hospitals operate – turn – thanks to doctors paid as trainees and not to refer to it, not to deal with this issue here, is to act as if the current students, for the vast majority, chose the facility by settling in, even though they have already made a major contribution to the medical reception and the provision of technical care for the benefit of our fellow citizens – this is important. With regard to Article 3, it is intended to introduce a selective agreement for general practitioners and specialists, under which, in an over-dense zone, a liberal doctor will only be agreed upon if he replaces another. This would create a break with the existing system, called their wishes by certain supervisory and advisory institutions. Such a mechanism would be tantamount to shifting the doctors' installation to the sub-donored areas. While these provisions are relevant in principle, we cannot, however, once again avoid thinking about the installation and practice of medical professionals. Indeed, we cannot hide the real risk of unconventionalised facilities, since the number of doctors does not do everything: for certain specialties, the prescribing and carrying out of acts not taken over, or little taken over, by social security constitutes an important part of the activity. Article 4, for its part, would create a common contractual framework for the funding of health centres by RHAs. Finally, Articles 5 and 6 set milestones in the definition of hospital supply, setting a maximum transport time for access to care, and setting targets for the provision of specialized care. This text has the merit, which should be stressed, of proposing several measures aimed at creating a frame of reference: it is an invitation to move forward. As I said, it should be accompanied by provisions to ensure the quality of training and the diversification of reception within them, a better recognition of the work of interns and their investment, a reflection on the care and actions to be carried out as a matter of priority in order to improve the health of our fellow citizens, and alternative proposals on the installation of doctors and their working conditions. [[Applause on the SOC benches and on several GDR benches]] In view of the convergence of the provisions it contains with some of the measures we are advocating, the Socialist and related group will support this bill, even if, I repeat, we should go further.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u55	Mrs Annie Chapelier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u56	Medical desertification now affects between 6 and 8 million people. The French are worried about their health and that of their loved ones: concerned about the widening territorial and social inequalities in access to care, they report their dismay at a shortage of doctors constantly worsening. In fact, the deadlines for getting an appointment are getting longer. While almost 9% of insured persons over the age of 16 do not have a treating physician, access to specialists is even more disparate, with a ratio of one to eight or one to twenty-four for paediatricians. In the face of this deterioration in supply and in view of the ageing of the population, the demand for care appears enormous and will only be more so tomorrow: we must anticipate these needs. It was after the visit of more than 150 hospitals and EHPAD that Mr Jumel, rapporteur for the bill on behalf of the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left, tried to find solutions to the concerns of the French, on which we are being questioned every day. His very rich report adds precise and quirky elements on medical desertification, which are absolutely essential to the societal reflection that we must begin on this issue. A very Western phenomenon, medical desertification questions our relationship to others and to old age, as well as our lifestyles. The health system needs to be considered in a way that is consistent with the evolution of our society. With the 2017 plan for equal access to care in the territories, and especially with the law on the organization and transformation of the health system, avenues have been explored, such as the abolition of the numerus clausus in favour of a numerus apertus, the coordinated exercise, or the compulsory internship in ambulatory for medical students – all of which we cannot yet analyze the effects. In addition, the deployment of nurses in advanced practice reinforces general medicine through close collaboration with physicians. Similarly, the creation and support of 4000 medical assistants contribute to the support of the Liberal exercise, deducing physicians from administrative tasks and time-consuming non-medical actions. However, we know that there are still many challenges ahead to enable the French to benefit from better medical follow-up. However, while the Action Together Group shares the ambition of this bill, we do not adhere to all the solutions it contains. We are not in favour of the deletion, provided for in Article 1, of the inclusion of training capacities in the multiannual admission objectives: the quality of training and the reception of health students is at stake. While the number of doctors is insufficient to cover the needs of the entire territory, your solution, in addition to being very coercive, does not seem to us the best suited to the current medical demography. We shall therefore vote on Article 1 only subject to the adoption of the amendment we have tabled. Together with my colleagues in the Action Group, I will also defend two amendments aimed at adding two articles to the bill, because a policy of real attractiveness must be pursued in the territories. The first is to strengthen Parliament's information on the development of outpatient courses and the second is to encourage the signing of public service contracts. In my personal capacity, I will vote for Article 2, especially for its application in subdenses, because we know that the majority of students choose to practice where they have studied, often at the same time starting to build their family life. The effect of this article would be to open up more recruitments, in particular through gateways, for students already in professional activity, but whose financial situation is precarious. On the other hand, the Action Together Group is reserved for articles 3 to 6. If we understand the objective of Article 3, which is to regulate the installation of city medicine in order to rebalance the numbers of liberal doctors according to the health needs in the territory, we are opposed to it. Firstly, the scheme could only work for so-called dynamic professions, whose numbers are large enough to cover the whole territory. However, there is no place in France where doctors are too numerous. Secondly, such a measure could lead doctors to opt for an unconventional exercise and thus not reimbursed by social security, which would create a two-tiered medicine. Finally, we find it inappropriate to introduce any measure which would not have been drawn up in consultation with the professionals. One cannot hope to ensure a quality exercise when forced: the disaffection for city medicine would only be greater. We shall therefore vote in favour of Article 1 subject to the adoption of our amendment, but against the rest of the text. However, I am confident that our discussions will help to identify more relevant tools to combat medical desertification, an issue that we must collectively try to address.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u57	Mr Thierry Benoit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u58	[[Applause on the benches of the IDU-I and GDR groups]] My colleagues in the IDU and independent group and I support the initiative of the Communist Group and Sébastien Jumel to propose tools to regulate the installation of doctors across the national territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u59	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u60	That's the voice of wisdom!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u61	With, among others, Yannick Favennec-Becot, Christophe Naegelen and Pierre Morel-À-L' Huissier, we support what is called the principle of selective convention.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u62	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u63	As a member of the National Assembly for the last three legislatures, I have always supported, like you, Madam Minister Delegate, incentives, such as the installation bonus, the eight-year challenge in rural revitalization areas, local health contracts, multidisciplinary health homes, health centres, telemedicine, and health care networks. However, we see that such measures are no longer sufficient...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u64	It's not working!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u65	[["Very good" on the benches of the IDU-I group]] ... and that it is necessary to include regulatory measures. I am grateful to the Government, Madam Minister Delegate, for having removed the numerus clausus, which limited the number of medical students, to the benefit of the numerus apertus, which, on the contrary, opens it up and must, in theory, adhere to the reality of the needs of the regions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u66	In theory!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u67	However, it is regrettable and even implausible that a country like France, which has statistical and planning tools on all levels – we have the direction of the animation of research, studies and statistics (DARES), the Inspectorate General of Social Affairs (IGAS), regional health agencies, the order of doctors – has organised the shortage of doctors in the territories – let's say the way they are, because that is really our feeling.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u68	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u69	I understand the anger of young medical students when they see Members making proposals for selective regulation or agreement. But we must put ourselves in the place of Members of Parliament who live in territories where the inhabitants no longer have a doctor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u70	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u71	I hear here and there that there would be no overdotted areas. But in the region where I live, Brittany, there are territories where, on the same day, you can get three appointments with a general practitioner and, at the same time, others in which the inhabitants have to wait three weeks.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u72	Yes! It's the same in Mayenne.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u73	The critics of the regulatory measures tell us that they will pose a problem for patients, who will continue to visit deconventionated doctors. To that, I will simply reply that, in the underfunded areas, patients will not have the means to consult unconventional doctors.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u74	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u75	We are also objected to that we are going to divert doctors from general medicine. I recognize that after we have created the numberrus apertus, we must now ask ourselves the question of the course of the students.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u76	Yes.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u77	Why are the ten years of medical studies a combatant's journey for these young people? Why are we putting such pressure on them, to the point that it would seem that we want to disappoint them before they have reached the end of their ten years of medicine? On the contrary, I think we need to pamper our students. It is a treasure to have young people in France who want to embrace a career as a doctor. They must be accompanied and encouraged. I would add that there should be no taboo on selective regulation and agreement measures, including the remuneration of doctors. In my personal capacity, I would be in favour of better remuneration for doctors whose facilities are contracted. The department of Ille-et-Vilaine, where I live, offers a very good example of the problem of the installation of doctors: like much of the metropolitan and ultramarine territory, it has a quality socio-educational offer; But as soon as we get away more than thirty minutes from Rennes, there are no more doctors,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u78	Except in Saint-Malo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u79	... while there are all public services and a well-functioning training offer. Spouses of physicians who would like to settle in would find everything that is necessary for a good quality of life. [[Applause on the benches of the IDU-I, Dem and GDR groups. – Catherine Daufès-Roux also applauds]] Yes to regulation, yes to selective agreement: in this area, we need as much freedom as possible and as much regulation as necessary.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u80	Mrs Jeanine Dubie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u81	I would like to thank the rapporteur and the GDR Group for putting on the agenda of this House a proposal for a law on health accessible to all and against medical desertification. Indeed, the malaise in our hospitals is the visible part of an even greater malaise that crosses and threatens the stability of our health system in its entirety. I am referring to the continuing imbalance in the provision of care and the very uneven distribution of doctors in the territory. I stress that the fight against medical desertification, which is worsening, is not only a matter of public health, but also of social cohesion. It is a public health issue for a population that is growing, aging and increasingly suffering from chronic diseases. In some territories, it sometimes takes 20 days to get an appointment with a general practitioner. For specialist consultations, delays increase: up to five months for an ophthalmologist. This is a real problem in terms of care, screening and loss of chances for these patients. It is also a problem for all health care professionals facing a very large workload, which partly explains the lack of interest of students in the practice of general medicine in Liberals. It is also an issue of social cohesion, because access to care is challenged by growing territorial inequalities that go beyond this problem alone. In many cases, a medical desert is a territory in which access to transport, culture, education or digital technology is also very difficult, if not non-existent. In addition to these territorial inequalities, access to care is also undermined by social inequalities that often overlap. Discontinuation of care is more likely to affect poor people and precarious living conditions. This renunciation is unbearable in a country that enshrines the protection of health in its Constitution. Let us not underestimate the role of medical desertification in the growing sense of social divide and distrust towards public institutions. These observations, which I know are shared by all here, are now binding on us to act. To say that successive majorities and our public policies have not seized the question would be false, but to say that they have been a success is not true either. All of the installation incentives proposed in recent years have failed to reverse the trend. The urgency of the situation and the evidence of this failure oblige us to do more and to consider the introduction of regulatory measures as they currently exist for other professions. We need to strike a balance between the freedom of doctors to set up themselves, on the one hand, and the protection of everyone's health, on the other. The debate was too long crystallized on the impression that these two issues were irreconcilable, but I am convinced that a third path is possible. You have found it, Mr rapporteur: selective agreement is an answer. The rise of the numerus clausus, now called numerus apertus, was indispensable, but it will not be enough; This is proof of the fact that the number of doctors registered with the National Council of the Order is only increasing, and that medical desertification is worsening.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u82	There's no room in college!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u83	Acting on the increase alone will not be enough if we do not also deal with the distribution. We also need to support local and regional authorities involved in the development of health policies. For years, they have played much more than their role in providing appropriate responses to each territory. Their efforts to establish health centres had borne fruit, particularly in some rural areas. Their action corresponds to the evolution of the profession, which increasingly turns to wage earners. Our group will therefore support the proposal for a contract between the SRA and the communities. Similarly, we will support the proposal to determine the supply of training based solely on the health needs of the territories. Indeed, it is the latter who must define our health policy as a priority. Finally, beyond emergency measures, it is necessary to invest heavily in health studies.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u84	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u85	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] The Libertés et Territoires Group is delighted to have this debate again, which is so essential, namely equal access to care. Some members expressed reservations about several provisions of the bill, but the vast majority were very supportive of it. The urgency of the situation obliges us to act. The regulation solutions are the only ones that have not yet been tried: let us not sweep them, again, with a back of the hand.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u86	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u87	It is with great joy and pride that I take the floor to support the Communist Group's bill. Inequities in access to care have only increased in recent years – I will spare you the list of numbers that attest to the considerable differences between jurisdictions – but it is never too late to act. Here is a bold and indispensable bill. Courageous, because I know that many doctors are very attached to the freedom of installation – I myself have paid for it. Indispensable, however, because the freedom of some people finds its limits when it compromises the freedom of all, that is to say, the freedom of access to care as quickly as possible throughout the country. Can we really tolerate that in some territories there are 377 doctors per 100,000 inhabitants when in others there are only 243, as in Picardy? [[Smile on the benches of the GDR group]] Despite the shortage of doctors, let us not lose sight of the ideal of equality and sharing which should be the foundation of our Republic. Selective treatying has already proven itself on many occasions to reduce density differences. Pharmacists, nurses, massage therapists, midwives, dental surgeons and speech therapists do so; I'm sure the doctors will be just as capable. I reassure the practitioners that it would remain to be convinced: the conventioning, if implemented, will apply to the new doctors, and only in the sufficiently equipped areas. It is not about moving, like pawns, doctors rooted in a territory for years. The bill goes further to improve access to care. She suggests starting from the real needs of doctors, not financial constraints, to train new doctors every year. It allows above all to make of the end of the numerus clausus something other than a simple incantation. For me, who comes from a region where the faculty of medicine has only increased by 1% last year, due to the lack of a binding measure to increase the numberrus clausus,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u88	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u89	...I am pleased that an article to this effect can be debated in the Chamber. This measure will benefit all French people, as well as doctors, who will be able to breathe more. Since we are talking about the working conditions of doctors, many of them are rightly complaining about spending much of their time on the administrative management of the firm and taking significant financial risks, especially at the beginning of their careers. More and more young doctors are turning to the status of salaried physician, but funding for health centres is still lacking. Article 4 of the proposed law is intended to remedy this. It will allow physicians who wish to do so to enjoy a more protective status, stabilize their incomes and work alongside other health care practitioners. For public authorities, it is also less expensive and more efficient. We will, of course, support this measure. Our parliamentary group, France, cannot but rejoice in Article 5, which takes up a measure proposed in our programme "L'Avenir en commun", namely to seek access to a public hospital less than 30 minutes from home for all French people. The 2019 law on the organization and transformation of the health system, known as the My Health 2022 strategy, had prohibited local hospitals from performing surgery and obstetrics, which we had denounced at the time. Many community hospitals are capable of carrying out these acts, yet they must be given the means to do so. Article 6 proposes to revert to this provision so that the French have access to real local hospitals where they can be treated and given birth. Factory hospitals don't make anyone dream; Let's go back to human-sized hospital units finely gilling the entire territory. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] Finally, I would like to say to those who oppose the bill that, by letting inequalities tear society apart without doing anything, we should not be surprised at the return of anger and disapproval. As the demographer Hervé Le Bras pointed out, the medical desert map is very close to that of the yellow vests. I invite our colleagues in the majority to meditate on this point.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u90	It's a very short line of reasoning.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u91	Mr Nicolas Meizonnet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u92	Decrease in the number of maternity wards, closure of the services of many hospital centres, non-replacement of health professionals retiring... Medical desertification is not a new phenomenon, but it tends to increase dangerously. It is now 7.4 million French people who live in a medical desert. In the public hospital, the vacancy rate is close to 30%, leading to serious dysfunction and ultimately penalising patients and the quality of care. There are many causes for the development of these areas of medical desertification. I share your observation: the offer of doctors does not increase, or little, despite the removal of the numerus clausus in the first year of medicine, and many retirements are not replaced. I would add the gradual loss of attractiveness in rural areas, in which the post office, the primary school classes, the gendarmerie, transport, etc. are successively closed. It is the result of public policies tending towards ever more metropolization. Son of a liberal general practitioner recently retired, I know how difficult it is for professionals in our villages in the department of Gard to find successors. And the deeper the territorial inequalities, the more the situation worsens, inevitably. The tragedy is that the departments with the lowest medical supply – the Ain, the Cher, the Eure, the Indre, the Mayenne, the Meuse, the Yonne – are those where the population is the oldest, therefore most in need of care. The deadlines for getting an appointment are getting longer and longer. Some patients give up care. We're calling on foreign doctors,
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u93	Good thing there are!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u94	...but that is not enough. It's a real bankruptcy! However, your text does not take into account the situation of the territories which, far from being rural, are also affected by the phenomenon of medical desertification. I am thinking of the Seine-Saint-Denis, struck by this phenomenon, although bordering the capital. In ten years, this department has lost a quarter of its general practitioners, 40% of its gynaecologists, almost half of its dermatologists. However, everything on paper should make it attractive, given its advantageous geographical position and the billions of euros spilled there. [[Mr. Jean-Paul Dufrègne]] Why doesn't this territory attract doctors anymore? The answer is in a word: insecurity! We cannot hide, as your bill does, that insecurity in some territories accelerates medical desertification. I am against the numerous attacks by medical personnel, whether they are doctors in their office or liberal nurses, who no longer dare to intervene in certain neighbourhoods,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u95	Especially in Beaucaire, it's terrible!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u96	...not more than the fire department, the police, the paramedics. This is the overwhelming observation made by the Observatoire national des violences en milieu de santé (ONVS)! In both hospital and practice settings, violence against carers continues to increase in France: in 2017, nearly 24,000 injuries to carers were recorded; 25600 in 2018. In 2019, the latest figure released to the public exploded, with more than 27,000 cases reported. Security therefore offers, of course, a lever. Every effort must be made to ensure that our caregivers are safe. Other subjects would deserve our attention, but in five minutes I will not have time to develop them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u97	It's okay. It's okay.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u98	Thus, mental health...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u99	[[Smile on the benches of the GDR and SOC groups]] Ah, sure, mental health, we could talk about it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u100	... medical students are deteriorating, due in particular to the professional exhaustion they are undergoing. With regard to the solutions that you propose, we will disagree, because you want to solve the problem by coercion. At a time when there is a lack of caregivers, a lack of interest on the part of the medical profession, 40% of nurses feel unrecognized and want to change their profession, at a time when individual freedoms are constantly being challenged, you want to make CEPA mandatory. I'm telling you, this seems counterproductive! In the face of this situation, new initiatives are needed: to carry out awareness-raising activities with students and interns; deploy health homes throughout the country; adopt new measures to encourage caregivers to move to rural areas; cause a radical change in the spatial planning model, tending towards demeropolisation; develop telemedicine and teleconsultations where possible; give more room to prevention, from an early age.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u101	Blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah,
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u102	I'm sure telemedicine in the white areas will work!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u103	That, ladies and gentlemen, is a whole series of common-sense measures aimed at combating the proliferation of medical deserts – a fight that must be recognized as a national priority.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u104	The general discussion is closed. The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u105	[[A member of the LR group protested]] I will give some answers but will be brief, because our group has put a lot of topics on the table. I thank the groups that support the bill: IDU and independent, Libertés et territoires, Socialists et affiliés, the communist group, La France insoumée. The Republicans group seems to be waiting for white smoke to know what course to take. Of course, I do not thank the Walkers, who have been mobilised so that nothing changes. Everyone seems to agree to diagnose a large sick body, but the majority refuse treatment. Minister, in listening to you, I wonder, "What's up, Doctor? – but nothing new under the sun. You are trying to convince us that it will take ten or twelve years for the slightest change in areas suffering from medical underdensity, that we find – as I said – in the rural territories, but also in the popular territories that are experiencing an excessive density of population. You do not answer the question that I asked you, like the Court of Auditors, about the costly but inefficient nature of all the incentive schemes, and about the equally costly aspect of the high number of doctors working in sector 2 in the Paris region. The Walkers announce that they approach the text with great humility,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u106	We recognize them there!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u107	[[Caroline Fiat applauds]] ... but rather quickly treat us as demagos and discredit the proposals that we defend. Thus, Article 1 aims to empower universities to train a number of doctors defined as needed. Normandy, for example, has the lowest density of dental surgeons in France, yet there is no dental faculty in the region. This shows that if the state does not provide itself with the means to create training places in universities, we will not solve problems related to medical demography. You say that you have loosened the numerus clausus and tried everything to combat medical desertification, but that it does not work. Your words sign your resignation. You see the CPTS as a miracle recipe, but 40% of the national territory is not covered by the scheme. That's to say, he's having a hard time prospering. Isaac-Sibille states that only 8% of doctors want to practise in the liberal sector. I don't know where he got his numbers from. The CNAM (National Health Insurance Fund) accounts for 12 per cent, plus 25 per cent who make replacements; After five years, we're over 40%. Your figures are intended to convey a corporatist concern and not to serve the general interest.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u108	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u109	I want proof of the situation with regard to the permanence of ambulatory care. Perhaps we must say this in our Chamber: 39% of doctors are involved in this legal obligation. In a large number of cases, there is no permanence, which results in abandonment of care. The discussion of the articles will give us an opportunity to convince that our text is not radical. I am thinking in particular of the generalisation of the public service contract. The photographs of medical students are similar to those of the preparatory classes: they are children from the higher classes, doctors in particular, who do medicine. We propose to democratize access to training by funding studies: we wager that young people who come from home – whether they are from their social class or their territory – will experience less difficulty in exercising at home than children born with a silver spoon in their mouth – I say without provocation and with great respect – who settle in places where life seems easier. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and IUD-I groups]] You imply that the members of the "coco group" of the National Assembly have invented solutions in their heads and that they are alone in defending these proposals. The Association des maires rurales de France (AMRF) defends them alongside us, such as the Association des petites villes de France (APVF), such as the Assemblée des départements de France (ADF), such as user associations, in particular UFC-Que choix, and the Fédération nationale des centres de santé. All of us stand by to say that we can't wait! [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] The slogan of the Marchers was "Revolution" – the candidate president demanded it. Today, you are proposing nothing more than immobilization in the matter of medical deserts and, for us, this is obviously unacceptable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u110	All right, Mr. Jumel! They seek their way in the darkness, the walkers!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u111	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u112	I intervene quickly; We will have time to give more details as the amendments are discussed. Mr Isaac-Sibille, who knows the subject as well as you, the rapporteur, says that only 8% of medical students want to settle in Liberals. The number of social security you quote is higher, reaching 12%.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u113	Twenty-five percent replacements!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u114	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Twenty-five percent are doing replacements because they don't want to settle: your numbers confirm we're right.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u115	But in what?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u116	I often meet with medical students and have talked a lot with them. I'm going to tell you an anecdote about the public service engagement contract. I am elected from a rural territory; I am also working very hard on this subject. At times, let us also observe and reflect.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u117	Observation, I agree, but reflection...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u118	Like you, I was at the beginning quite in favour of imposing a constraint; During the previous parliamentary term, I co-signed with the Socialist Group a bill to that effect, which was rejected. However, with the experience gained through regular meetings, because this subject is a matter of much consultation, I have become aware that unfortunately there exists – whether you like it or not – a new culture of the exercise of general medicine. Prior to 2015, the course of medical studies no longer included a general medical internship. For me, it is the heart of the profession, but the students of the time had no notion of what general medicine is, let alone local medicine. You can imagine where we're going!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u119	And their movements are not taken care of!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u120	We are in 2021 and 100 per cent of students complete an internship in general medicine. I met the deans of the faculties. When they harmonized the schedules, they did not ensure that students who wanted to complete their general medical internship in areas far from the faculty could return to take the courses. Again, we were going from far away.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u121	That's right, we didn't pay for the travel costs!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u122	Making things change took another two or three years! Each time, we tried to convince, to confirm this trend step by step. In my view, the desire to settle is not created by forcing the installation. Mr. Jumel, would you like to go on vacation with me...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u123	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u124	... if I was forced to go with you?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u125	I'm not sure!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u126	[[Smile]] What a shame! You don't know what you're losing! However, this shows that desire is not created by coercion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u127	But here, it's not just a matter of pleasure: we're talking about public health!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u128	I'd rather we keep the doctors who settle in and stay there. If they are forced to stay in an area for three years, but only want to leave, how will we solve the problem? The acting will always prevail and the doctors will only pass. In life, I am not blissful: I, too, needed evidence to change my position. We're going step by step. We should avoid sterile polemics, because there is urgency and we are making progress; we find solutions in the emergency.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u129	If there's an emergency, we have to act now! It's not negotiable!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u130	Mr. Lecoq, please! The emergency solutions, we are developing them, step by step also! In addition, we are acting together in a structural way, which had not been the case for years. To respond to the urgency, we develop advanced practice. We all agree that it's too long, however, we don't have enough doctors at all!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u131	More reason to better distribute them!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u132	We have to stop posing false problems...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u133	They're not fake problems!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u134	...as we try to solve the real together. Don't make me say what I didn't say. I've been working for years to improve access to care. At home, it's crucial. When you create tools, you attract young doctors. I've been fighting in this direction for eight years...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u135	We've been here for 30 years!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u136	[[Mr. Cyril Isaac-Sibille applauds]] ...and for two or three years, I've been feeling a simmer. I assure you that young doctors are coming, with an installation project, and that some create their own health home. Let's figure it out and talk about it. I know young doctors who are already interns because they have anticipated the need to train people who will relay them. That is the reality of the territory I know well, for which I have been working for a long time. [[Protests on the benches of the GDR group]] [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] No one opposes anything: we are not in contradiction – let us stop sterile polemics. We only say that the constraint has never solved anything. This may have to happen one day, but today it would be useless. Let us let this happen, with all the measures we have voted for in the review of the FSLP to improve the situation in the emergency.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u137	I now call the articles of the bill in the text originally before the House, since the committee has not adopted any text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u138	Mr Cyrille Isaac-Sibille has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u139	Article 1 is devoted to training. I want to go back to what our majority has achieved in the past three years when the decision was made to delete the numerus clausus. Everyone is talking about medical desertification, while for fifty years no government has done anything to oppose it. This year is indeed the fiftieth anniversary of the creation of the numerus clausus. Let's take the numbers; They are interesting, whether the majorities are on the right or on the left. Fifty years ago, in 1971, the number of places in medicine was 8,500; This number has gradually declined to 6400 in 1981, 4400 in 1988 and 3500 in 1997. This year, we have increased from 15,000 to 17,000 places in the second year for doctors, pharmacists, dentists and midwives. This is the first time there has been such an increase. Right-wing and left-wing parliamentarians, for fifty years, you have done nothing. It's the majority that for three years has ended...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u140	What a beautiful story!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u141	[[Protests on the benches of the GDR group]] I'll take the numbers back! They show that we have made a leap forward in training.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u142	What an arrogance!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u143	For the past fifty years, the management of social security has been solely accounting. Basically, you thought that the less doctors and nurses were trained, the less the hole in the security was dug. We have done the opposite and we are very proud to have ended the numerus clausus.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u144	That's enough of the lessons, Mr. I-know-all!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u145	These Playmobils that give lessons, it's unbearable!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u146	Mr Yannick Favennec-Becot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u147	Ladies and gentlemen, this text proposed by the GDR Group simply reflects what we hear and see on a daily basis in most of our constituencies: French people in distress because they do not find a doctor to treat themselves, because they have to take hundreds of kilometres to find one, or because they have to wait months to get an appointment. Today, in 21st century France, 6 to 8 million of our citizens have no doctors. We do not discover this situation at this end of the legislature; It's been years since each other, all parliamentary groups and all trends combined...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u148	Totally true!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u149	... have proposed to successive governments for the past 15 years to double the scope of financial incentives – of which Thierry Benoit spoke very well – to attract doctors to under-funded areas, through a system of regulation of the installation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u150	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u151	This system is effective for other professions such as pharmacists, nurses and kines; So why not experiment with it, at least, for doctors? [[Thierry Benoit applauds]] Health is one of the sovereign responsibilities of the State; The universal right to health is enshrined in the preamble to the 1946 Constitution. We will have the opportunity to express it the day after tomorrow in front of the Ministry of Health, with the 300 Mayenians who will come to demonstrate to the minister their attachment to the hospital of North Mayen located in my constituency, as well as the need for proactive measures to combat medical deserts.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u152	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u153	I would like, very quickly, to give two or three answers. One might almost think, to listen to you, that the numerus clausus was only included in candidate Macron's only project. Other programs, however, spoke of it, including the one that cares about me, "The Future in Common". If you take it again, you will see that it specified that the numerus clausus would be deleted, but not only! It also provided for the creation of amphitheatres; the creation of seats, so that students can sit; the creation of teaching posts so that students can have teachers; the creation of boarding and outposting posts.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u154	It would take ten years!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u155	You didn't! It's easy to say that you removed the numerus clausus! Not a single amphitheater has since been created to welcome new students; Bravo! After that, you say there aren't enough seats! How could students not be disgusted? You also promised 4000 positions of medical assistants to relieve doctors; They had to be reserved – the promise of Agnes Buzyn – for caregivers at the end of their careers, tired. Where are these 4000 positions proposed by Emmanuel Macron and Agnes Buzyn? We're at the end of the mandate, let's take stock!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u156	We will!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u157	Where are they? There's zero!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u158	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u159	Some salaried doctors want to set up a health centre, but it's the cross and banner to create these centers. I can talk to you about Jarny's case, which I have very good control of. You say only 8% of doctors want to settle; This is because when they want to become salaried doctors, they are practically prevented from doing so, because we can't create health centres. It's your report, too! If you don't want to take stock, let's do it completely!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u160	Mrs Annie Chapelier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u161	I speak in my personal capacity and not on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, in which positions are very different. I would like to stress the importance of Article 1. Mr Jumel brings an idea that has not yet been put on the table: to propose proportionate offers, by studying the areas in which it is most needed. In my view, this can work; We understand it when we talk to the students. In fact, one ends up settling where one has studied, simply because one has built his life there; medical studies are very long, unlike other medical professions – midwives, dentists – and non-medical, which are less so and allow more mobility, more easily supported by students. However, several points in the drafting of the article do not seem realistic – that is why we have tabled an amendment. Thus, it is not realistic to eliminate training skills, because it cannot be answered very quickly; the consequences are almost as distant as those of the nomerus apertus. There is an important moment in the life of a medical student: what was once called the boarding school competition. It often results in assignment to a region other than the one originally desired. A reform has been carried out: the national classification will no longer exist and a national dematerialised matching procedure will be applied. However, students will not necessarily continue their studies where they begin. So we find ourselves again faced with a brewing in the distribution of students. I find the idea interesting, but it should be refined and applied rather at the time of the boarding school competition, for the three years of general medicine.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u162	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u163	For decades, the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left, here and in the Senate, has been calling for the abolition of the numerus clausus. This decision was eventually taken and we supported it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u164	Who did?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u165	The challenge is to see what it is accompanied by. Is it accompanied by sufficient public resources and objectives to train the number of doctors we need? The question is also whether Parcoursup does not reintroduce a sort of numerus clausus which, in the end, would come back through it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u166	Of course I do!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u167	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] We would no longer have a numberrus apertus, but a numberrus hocus pocus, which would obviously pose serious problems. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] Whenever we propose measures, you answer that they are binding and coercive. Coercion and coercion may exist, but not in this text! You refuse to equip yourself – to equip us – with the tools of regulation and connection, which are the subject of Article 1. It is about connecting choices and means to the real needs of the territories. It is a matter of public responsibility and health. We have a duty to provide ourselves with the necessary and sufficient means of action.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u168	Mrs Monique Limon has the floor to support Amendment No 11, which deletes Rule 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u169	It's pretty!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u170	The law of 24 July 2019 on the organization and transformation of the health system has removed the numerus clausus – I am not teaching you anything. Since the beginning of 2020, in order to better meet health needs and ensure quality training in all territories, universities and RHAs now jointly define the number of students admitted to the various fields each year, on the basis of national guidelines aimed at meeting the needs of the health system, reducing the territorial inequalities in access to care and allowing the integration of students into the labour market. In 2021, we estimated an increase of 19.4% in the number of medical students, which had not been seen for more than fifty years. The Education Code specifically mentions the need for universities to promote the balanced distribution of future professionals in the territory in terms of health needs. The objectives set must take into account the Territory's training capacities and health needs. Since the objective of territorialisation of the reception capacity referred to in Article 1 already appears to be satisfied, the aim of the amendment is to abolish this Article.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u171	On Amendment No 11, I am seized by the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left and by the Socialist and Related Group of the European Parliament of a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u172	Dr. Rist,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u173	That's not good...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u174	... on 8 July 2021, with regard to open places in PACES, the Council of State observed that 15 universities had not sufficiently increased their reception capacity in the second year to ensure the implementation of the reform, so that it would not be at the disadvantage of students enrolled in LAS (health access licence) and PASS (specific health access term). This is the demonstration that Article 1 is founded. Moreover, who can believe that a boss of ARS will have the slightest authority over the president of the university to influence his means? Who can believe that a boss of ARS, who depends on two different line ministries, will have the slightest authority over a university rector, in order to ensure that health needs are taken into account in the development of means? That is why we consider that the transformation of the numerus clausus will not be sufficient to rebalance the planning of the health area. Finally, the minister said that trained doctors were up 30%, while you were talking about an increase of 19%; You'd have to hear what you're saying. I don't deny that we're getting any better. But even by training more, if we do not move the criteria of training, there is no proof that we will rebalance the distribution of doctors in favour of the subdenses territories and that we will solve the problem of medical deserts. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u175	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u176	Favourable opinion. Exchanges are already taking place in each territory, under the auspices of regional observatories for the demography of health professions and RHAs...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u177	Oh, to observe, we're watching!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u178	... to make territorialized proposals of capacities to be formed. These reception capacities shall be decided annually by the universities, with the assent of the ARS; They are usually the result of local consultation with all the actors and correspond to the real capacities of the institutions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u179	Then it's all solved! It's all right, Mrs. Marquise!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u180	Nobody says that!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u181	Mrs Stéphanie Rist has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u182	Mr rapporteur, I am actually a doctor on Monday morning, but for the rest of the time I am a Member of Parliament like you. It seems to me important to recall that the law on the organization and transformation of the health system, known as My Health 2022, provides that the RHAs accept the number of students to be trained, communicated by the universities, after consultation with the CRSA (regional conference on health and autonomy). In my region, twice as many medical students are trained as in other regions; I am therefore well aware of the need to increase the number. But in Article 1, you withdraw training skills; training doctors without training does not seem to me to be possible. That is why the amendment is intended to delete it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u183	Mrs Lamia El Aaraje has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u184	Deputy Minister, I am trying to follow your reasoning, since we are dealing with a serious public health problem: in some jurisdictions, there is no doctor capable of receiving patients who need treatment. This is a serious enough problem for us not to argue, but to try to answer it collectively. The removal of the numerus clausus is rather a good measure...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u185	That's the one you had to take!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u186	... which, if accompanied by sufficient resources for the training of more health professionals, could solve this problem. Take the very concrete example of the Paris-Descartes University. I invite you, Madam Minister Delegate, to come and see with me how the reception of first- and second-year students is physically taking place. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] Even when the numerus clausus is removed, the amphitheatres do not have sufficient capacity to accommodate more students.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u187	That's right! Every college says it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u188	Your amendment does not solve the problem. Secondly, I would like to ask you a perhaps very simplistic question about medical desertification. A number of our fellow citizens do not have access to a treating doctor, not because they do not want to, but because it is impossible. In these circumstances, how do we organize their care journey? You don't answer that question. It is not a question of debating what previous governments have done or have not done.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u189	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u190	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u191	We note that you have been in charge for the past five years and that you pride yourself on having made great progress in public health. In fact, this is absolutely not the case since we are facing major problems. Finally, the system of compendia works very well...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u192	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u193	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] ...because the conditions for implantation are foreseen: no restrictions are imposed on pharmacists to move to certain places, they must comply with the installation card of the pharmaceuticals.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u194	Mr Cyrille Isaac-Sibille has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u195	While Article 1 is interesting, it is nevertheless incantatory. To train doctors, it is necessary to have amphitheaters...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u196	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u197	We've got to settle the emergency!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u198	...and staff leaders, we agree. But the situation is gradually changing. It cannot be said overnight that in such a region so many doctors will be trained, while there are no amphitheaters, mentors, or senior doctors to train them. Of course, it will be necessary to improve the system by allowing liberal doctors to be interns, whereas today only hospital doctors are. For three years now, gradually, we have been changing the situation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u199	You didn't do anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u200	You say, Madame Fiat, that nothing has been done to fight against medical deserts: inquire! 2500 CEPA have already been signed, three years after the adoption of the law on the organization and transformation of the health system...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u201	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u202	[[Ms. Sandrine Mörch applauds]] ...and it's a real success, city general practitioners are plebisciteing this device.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u203	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u204	I put to the vote Amendment No 11.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u205	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 75 Number of votes cast 75 Absolute majority 38 For adoption 49 Against 26
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u206	I call Mr Thierry Benoit to support Amendment No. 5.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u207	Internships in under-funded areas must be made compulsory, rather than simply a priority, as they are at present.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u208	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u209	I am in favour of the amendment. When, together with President Chassaigne, we met with the Minister of Solidarity and Health, he told us that he had the idea of foreseeing this measure a long time ago,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u210	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u211	But that's when he still had convictions!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u212	...but it has not been translated into law. In response to the Minister, regional observatories for the demography of health professions do not exist in all regions; Some have disengaged. Thus, the diagnoses that would solve the problem are not established. As far as the distribution of health facilities is concerned, I will take the example of the regional specialist assistants – ASR – who are deployed according to the goodwill of the employers of university hospital centres (CHU). It must be noted that they are more likely to be affected in large hospitals in metropolitan areas than in small ones. Your admirable sense of equality is, in this and other areas, to give everything to those who already have a lot; We propose to give a lot to those who have less.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u213	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u214	The Government expresses an opinion against this amendment. I share the desire to deploy internships to underfunded areas. I have just explained the material conditions under which medical students sometimes did their internships in remote areas while their courses were given at an hour and a half from there; This is why they choose to carry out their internship in a closer municipality, which is detrimental. I also deplore this organisation, but we cannot compel them. As you know, you must have traineeships; They're decisive.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u215	There aren't enough traineeships!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u216	However, in under-funded areas, there are not enough doctors who are interns, which prevents us from assigning as many trainees as we would like. That is quite objective, not controversial, and I regret it as much as you do.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u217	What about the enforcement decree that's not taken?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u218	Mr Thierry Benoit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u219	I said earlier that the Ille-et-Vilaine department was a good laboratory to experiment with a proposal of this type. Indeed, if a student of the faculty of medicine of Rennes is to do an internship at the hospital center of the Marches de Bretagne in Fougères, Vitré, Maen Roch, or thirty or thirty-five minutes from Rennes,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u220	And you're gonna make him?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u221	... it is not lost in the pampa; he works in a territory that offers a quality socio-educational offer. He will meet professionals – between them, they speak the same language – who will talk to him about the practice of medicine in medium-sized cities, peripheral and rural territories. That is the meaning of this amendment; It's not very complicated, it's a so-called regulatory measure. Our colleague Olivier Damaisin, Member of Parliament for Lot-et-Garonne, organized a round table, accessible via video conferencing, in which I participated. We have discussed with the department's elected officials and health professionals who, in the majority, aspire to selective contractual and regulatory measures, so that medical students are trained as close as possible to the territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u222	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u223	Madam Minister Delegate, you are making the argument – which we can understand – that the number of traineeships would be insufficient. With Sébastien Jumel, we had an exchange with the Minister of Solidarity and Health, Mr.Véran, who told us that a decree lightening the conditions for becoming a trainee would be published very soon. Thus, if the amendment is voted, the lines will change. As a result of the awareness of the Ministry of Solidarity and Health, tomorrow we will have more traineeships and thus the possibility of implementing the measure proposed by Mr Benoit.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u224	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 12 and 24, to delete Article 2. Mrs Mireille Robert has the floor to support Amendment No. 12.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u225	CESP is an incentive mechanism that has been considerably strengthened by the Act of 24 July 2019 on the organization and transformation of the health system. It has been modernised and its scope has been extended to practitioners with diplomas outside the European Union – PADHUE – authorised to pursue a path of consolidation of knowledge. In order to make this scheme more attractive for students, a security of professional projects formulated in the territories which would no longer be eligible for the CESP at the end of their studies has been carried out. The generalisation of the CESP provided for in Article 2 is a coercive measure which runs counter to the proposed scheme, which aims to propel the preparation by the students themselves of their professional projects in areas characterized by insufficient care or difficulties in accessing care, so that they are in line with the duration. The amendment proposes the deletion of Article 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u226	On the identical amendments Nos 12 and 24, I am seized by the Left Democratic and Republican and Socialist and related groups of a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr Nicolas Meizonnet has the floor to support Amendment No. 24.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u227	As I said in the general discussion, it is counterproductive to make the CESP mandatory. We are convinced that the overhaul of the health system, the economic and social development of peri-urban and rural areas and positive incentives will ensure equal access to health care throughout our nation's territories. In order to significantly enhance the attractiveness of the CESP, communication needs to be developed, awareness raising and recruitment of students and interns. The amendment is therefore intended to delete Article 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u228	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u229	We've already discussed it in committee. Only 7% of students have a CESP: it is little known and less and less solicited. The distribution of CESP is very uneven: 21% of contracts are signed in Île-de-France, which means that few are signed in subdenses. The CESP is the incentive contract for medical students to practise in under-denses, but we must generalize it, I insist on this point. We have heard the unions of young doctors and medical students who are opposed to it – I say it frankly. However, when you look at the photographs of medical students, the question of the democratization of access to medical studies remains; It's a spatial planning issue. That is why I express an opinion against the deletion amendments, because the generalisation of the CESP is a lever which, in addition to others, is likely to reduce territorial and social inequalities in access to care.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u230	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u231	I am in favour of the amendments to delete Article 2. I am familiar with CEPA, a good measure to democratize access to these studies. I share my experience with you: every year, during the school year, I went to the medical school, which is an hour and a half away from my constituency, to talk to all the students of the CESP, which aims to encourage them to settle in subdenses. Then, during private interviews, I met several students to whom I explained that this contract only required them to settle, from the end of the training and for a period equal to that corresponding to the payment of the allowance and more than two years, in an underfunded area. These students, however in a very precarious situation, refused to conclude the CESP on the grounds that it would be coercive. There is no charge because of the lack of knowledge of the device on the one hand, and the refusal to be forced on the other. I couldn't help but show my astonishment to a student in a precarious situation who explained to me that he refused to conclude a CESP on the grounds that he prevented her from settling where she wished, forcing her parents to help her. We're here, we've got to hear it. That is why I would like to tell you, Mr Jumel, that we would benefit from an extended consultation, beyond a single union, for all medical students.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u232	Mr Julien Borowczyk has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u233	Madam Minister-in-Office of the Council has just recalled that the obligation is unfortunately counterproductive. The current operation is operational. It was pointed out during the presentation of Amendment No 12 that PADHUE could conclude CEPAs. Remember that under this legislature, we solved the old problem of PADHUE that you had never raised: they were often low paid, working as interns in hospitals. They will finally be able to regularize their situation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u234	They were here!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u235	Thus, in the next two years maximum, 4000 to 5000 doctors will settle in all territories. We took up this subject, which raised a real human problem and medical demography. Thanks to this concrete measure we have taken, doctors are allowed to conclude CEPAs and will arrive in the coming months – I wanted to remind them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u236	Mrs Valérie Bazin-Malgras has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u237	Madam Deputy Minister, at some point we should know what we want.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u238	Doctors!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u239	In our countries, one or two million euros of medical homes remain empty, with no doctor willing to practise there. They're all concentrated in the same place. At some point, if you don't explain to medical students that they will have to spread over the territory, how do you do it?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u240	I'm doing it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u241	You have to ask yourself the right questions, make the right decisions; I think we're here for that purpose.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u242	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u243	Of course, I support Article 2. My experience is that of a very dense department, located in the heart of a metropolis, which is a medical desert. The territories concerned by Sébastien Jumel's bill are the forgotten of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u244	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u245	These are rural, peri-urban areas, medium-sized cities losing attractiveness, but also popular suburbs of large cities: all suffer and constitute medical deserts. Paradoxically, I know in my department many young people from popular families who have the skills or at least the school level that would allow them to study medicine,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u246	And envy!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u247	... envy and vocation, but they do not, because of their duration and the financial constraints that this represents. In a few weeks, I will be celebrating the installation of a young doctor whose five brothers and sisters and the whole family sacrificed themselves so that she could have a long education while the others worked and gave life to family solidarity. Let us help children and students who have the vocation, the will and the ability to become doctors! [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group. – Mr Thierry Benoit, Ms Jeanine Dubie and Mrs Valérie Bazin-Malgras also applaud]] However, most of a doctor's income comes from public money. It is therefore not incongruous to ask for counterparties. That's true for the police, for the gendarmes, for the teachers. Let's better fund the studies, in order to make the children of the popular strata have access to the profession of doctor, but let's demand in return for this public money an obligation to go to the territories where needs exist!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u248	I put to the vote identical amendments Nos 12 and 24.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u249	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 74 Number of votes cast 73 Absolute majority 37 For adoption 48 Against 25
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u250	Mrs Annie Chapelier has the floor to support Amendment No. 10.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u251	It aims at obliging training and research units (UFR) to communicate to their students the terms and conditions for signing public service contracts. Currently, only 7% of students choose this contract. As the minister delegate said, information will not be enough to convince everyone. However, some students simply ignore the existence of this device. That is why this amendment proposes that the relevant UFRs must inform each of their students. On the other hand, students taking footbridges that we all call for – healthcare professionals or other professionals who choose to engage in medical studies after having worked in another profession – face great material difficulties: the existence of the CESP must be particularly reported to them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u252	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u253	Favourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u254	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u255	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u256	Mr Bruno Millienne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u257	I am rather in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u258	But we did!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u259	Of course, it is desirable to communicate more with students, as a number of them are not sufficiently informed and must be accompanied. There, we revolve around the pot of reality of the reorganization of the medical service in France. Mrs Bazin-Malgras, you say that some health homes are empty, but how many territories do they start building them without first making sure that doctors will agree to come to them?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u260	Let's let the territories do it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u261	We must not do things backwards: find doctors to practice in health homes, but do not do the opposite, because it is not health homes that will bring doctors, it is not true! The real problem is elsewhere: we have removed the numerus clausus, let us go back to work with all the people concerned, in order to persuade them to go to deserted territories. Mr Jumel, your proposal for a law is somewhat paradoxical: you who are against all constraints, you impose one whose students do not want at all, but when we do, you accuse us of being liberticides! It's weird: it would be better to make new general statements and put everything on the table, with all the actors involved. Students must be persuaded to go to deserted territories in terms of health; Many of those who have experienced it by signing a contract have settled there.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u262	Of course! He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u263	Mrs Valérie Bazin-Malgras has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u264	It is indeed necessary to inform students of the existence of these contracts. I am fully in favour of this mechanism.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u265	It's strange that the minister is against it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u266	Mrs Lamia El Aaraje has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u267	I confess that I find it difficult to follow you, Madam Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u268	I'm not surprised!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u269	If I hear your testimony, I am not sure that a general rule can be established from a particular case.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u270	This is not a special case!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u271	Consider a significantly different example, but one that falls within the scope of the public service provided to the population, as well as the provision of health services throughout the country. Remember that the solvency of health professionals is ensured through national solidarity, which goes hand in hand with a number of responsibilities. Teachers are forced, in their early days, to exercise in a number of territories. Similarly, pharmacists cannot settle anywhere, but only where pharmacies are open.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u272	You're paradoxic, that's what I'm saying!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u273	I am therefore in favour of making the CESP mandatory. This is not your choice, but we must at least answer the question of information. Let us take an example here too. I have recently exchanged with a college principal on the subject of scholarships, which aim to allow a number of children from families with limited means to attend as normal a school as possible: with the digital transition of the scholarship application files, some families no longer file their files although they are eligible.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u274	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u275	Why? Because of a lack of information and the problem posed by the digital whole. Making information compulsory, vulgarizing speech and doing pedagogy is what we all call our wishes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u276	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u277	Even on an amendment that does not eat bread, which aims to communicate better, you are showing a total closure that is difficult to understand. Our colleague Millienne described our bill as "quiet," but no one in this House has any difficulty accessing a doctor. In fact, there are so many of them in the Chamber...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u278	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u279	...that even if we didn't find one, it wouldn't be difficult!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u280	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u281	None of us have any problems with money or address books to find a doctor; But this is the case of 11% of our fellow citizens. Between 1997 and today, the number of women of childbearing age living at more than 45 minutes of maternity has increased from 200000 to 700000! School medicine is so damaged that the number of kids who, in sixth grade, have never seen a school doctor is exploding! There are also not enough doctors practising in maternal and child protection (PMI)! And you are surprised that a group is wondering how to find solutions to a problem that does not concern you! We believe that our responsibility is to try to provide answers, because we have not tried everything! This is the subject of Article 2. You're free to think it's weird, but for us, it's legitimate! It is imperative that we be proactive on this issue. Even if you refuse to vote on this text, the subject will prevail and will force you to evolve...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u282	In the coming weeks!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u283	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR and SOC groups]] ...on the answer to be given to the 11% of French people who do not have a doctor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u284	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u285	The Deputy Minister is changing her mind!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u286	It is strange that it is unfavourable to this amendment!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u287	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and Dem groups. – Exclaims on the banks of the GDR Group]] We can repeat the general discussion as many times as you wish, but it seemed to me that we were debating Amendment No 10 here! I invite Mrs Chapelier to withdraw this amendment, which aims to improve the information of students on the CESP, because it is not useful to go through the law for this. Indeed, this is already happening. I myself regularly go to medical schools to inform them...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u288	And we don't do anything, maybe?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u289	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] ...and I invite you to do the same. In any case, universities do so, since they are obliged to do so.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u290	It's all right, Mrs. Marquise!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u291	Mr Cyrille Isaac-Sibille has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u292	Article 3 no longer refers to subdenses, but to areas with high medical density. Mr. rapporteur, what do you call it? Can you give us examples of areas with high medical density? You say that 11% of our citizens do not have a doctor, but do you think that they are evenly distributed throughout the country? In addition, if the installation of a doctor were to be conditioned by the departure of another, the creation of annuities would result. What will you do in this case? The doctor who leaves will sell a charge, his clientele, and thus build up an annuity; It is therefore a system of annuities which will be introduced, following the model of the pharmacists' network, which is linked to the burdens which are those of young pharmacists, who have to get into debt to settle. I do not understand this position – which forces a young doctor to pay to settle – in a communist...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u293	On Amendment No 13, which is intended to delete Article 3, I am seized by the Socialist and Allied Group and by the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland of a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr Marc Delatte has the floor to support Amendment No. 13.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u294	Selective agreements, as proposed in this article, do not address the problems associated with the lack of doctors in certain territories. Misdiagnosis, mistreatment: it is a false good idea, typical of a policy of "there is only one, we have to" that returns like a chestnut tree in the journalistic milieu, and of a very binary vision of the problems. It is to ignore the medical world, which has invested as never before in the face of the pandemic. If it were the right recipe, we would have applied it and our European neighbours would have done it too. On the one hand, this article 3 runs counter to the reality principle and population approach of the "My Health 2022" plan and the July 2019 law on the organization and transformation of our health care system. On the other hand, it is not the right way to build a society of trust with users and doctors. It is also contrary to the principle of equity, as it will tarnish the first-recourse medical system – family medicine – and contribute to unequal access to care. If you deconcentrate some doctors, modest patients will still have to get their hands on the wallet – if they can. We therefore call for the deletion of this article.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u295	It's blackmail!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u296	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u297	As far as territorial inequalities are concerned, I refer you to the table on page 50 of our report, which shows the density of specialist doctors for the twelve least dense departments and the twelve most dense departments. Let us make some comparisons: the rate of the best endowed department, the Alpes-Maritimes, 275 per 100,000 inhabitants, is four times higher than that of the second least well endowed department, the Eure; Paris has 610 specialists per 100,000 inhabitants, when there are only 32 per 100,000 in Mayotte. If this is not enough for you to see that there are departments better equipped than others!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u298	Yes, as specialists, but not as generalists!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u299	For generalists, the analyses must go to a finer level, but the studies carried out by the DREES, the Caisse nationale d'assurance maladie and the geographer Emmanuel Vigneron also reveal strong inequalities between the territories. I add – since it seems that it is for you the word of gospel – that the President of the Republic himself acknowledged in the Hauts-de-France ten days ago that the difficulties of access to care had become a major issue and that it was necessary to be innovative and to move things forward.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u300	Thank you for the solution!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u301	So, is there just Jumel, Benoit and a few others to say there's a problem? No!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u302	[[Smile]] And we don't count?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u303	I'm one of them, and I'm not gonna quote us all the time! The Court of Auditors, the Economic, Social and Environmental Council (EESC),...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u304	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u305	...Treasury management, a January 2020 Senate report and numerous bills, notably tabled by Marchers...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u306	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u307	... which seem to have since vowed silence, affirm that there is an obligation to respond to this imperative need not to oblige, not to exercise coercion, but to ensure better spatial planning in health matters. That is the purpose of the selective agreement that we are proposing. It's not true to say that we have to.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u308	Yes, it's regulation!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u309	This is a regulatory mechanism that provides for the possibility of replacing a retired physician in well-equipped areas and encourages selective contractual arrangements in under-funded areas.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u310	You're actually creating an annuity!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u311	What is the Government's view on the deletion amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u312	Favourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u313	Mrs Valérie Bazin-Malgras has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u314	I would like to draw attention to pharmacies, which, as you know, are subject to quotas. [[Applause on several benches in the GDR group. – Mr Thierry Benoit also applauds]] What our colleagues in the GDR Group are proposing in this Article 3 is to make access to equitable care throughout the country, which is crucial. In our campaigns, people only talk about this: there are no more doctors. Ways must be found to bring them back, and article 3 offers a real solution for rural areas.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u315	It's not a solution, it's an annuity!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u316	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u317	What do we see? You are getting away with flutes, in other words, you have nothing to do with financing health at the national level, funding what is a real public service.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u318	No, I can't hear that!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u319	I have two examples that refer to Bill 3DS—a bill dealing with differentiation, decentralization, deconcentration and various measures to simplify local public action. By arguing that this will improve things, you give the departments the school medicine that you, and others before you, have been unable to place at a level of quality commensurate with the needs of children, as we saw yesterday in the debate on school harassment. The second example, which is still the result of Bill 3DS, is that you give municipalities, while not part of their powers, the possibility of financing medical equipment in public and private health facilities. This will introduce territorial competition: it will be to whom or not the applications of the institutions will be financed. The state clearly diverges from this major public service mission of access to care for all citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u320	We've been saying it for years!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u321	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR and SOC groups]] You tell us we don't know the medical world. Perhaps, but what matters first and foremost is the users, the patients, that is, our fellow citizens in our constituencies!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u322	I have noted that there are several requests to speak. However, I do not teach you the rule: in the discussion of the amendments, statements are limited to two, unlike at other points in the debate where everyone can speak more broadly. We need to move forward if we are to look at all the GDR proposals for legislation. The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u323	We share the findings.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u324	It is not enough to share observations! We share everything, but we don't act the same way!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u325	I recall that there are people who have been in power for years without ever accepting selective bargaining. I want to point out one of the last bills under the previous legislature: it was rejected purely and simply, and it was also from a left-wing group. This is not a controversial issue, again. I can't hear you say...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u326	It's not a controversial issue, it's a political one!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u327	Let me speak anyway: a debate must allow for listening to others, sometimes! I cannot hear, I repeat, that access to the care of the French is not a priority for the Government at this time. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Excuse me to remind you of the context in which we find ourselves: we are facing a pandemic! We are taking multiple actions to protect our fellow citizens!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u328	You're getting out of the flutes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u329	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Nor can I hear you say that when we have invested more than 29 billion euros in health through Segur.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u330	You're hot in the back!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u331	[[Same movements]] You can always claim that it's nothing, but it's 19 billion that we've spent on investments in institutions that have become obsolete and obsolete by years of inaction!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u332	You were forced to do it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u333	You've been stirred up by the social movement in hospitals!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u334	And 10 billion that we have dedicated to salary revalorisations for professionals who had not benefited from any increase in years! Access to health care for the French is a priority for us.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u335	Then act!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u336	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] The fact is, we share it! There's an emergency! You can't tell us the opposite after what we've done in recent years, especially right now!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u337	This isn't bullshit!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u338	I put to the vote Amendment No. 13.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u339	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 68 Number of votes cast 68 Absolute majority 35 For adoption 45 Against 23
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u340	Mr Thierry Benoit has the floor to support Amendments Nos 4, 3, 2, 1 and 7, which can be presented in a consolidated format.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u341	This consolidated presentation will make it possible to fluidize the debates, Mr. Chairman. These amendments are all the result of the bill that I tabled with my colleagues in the IUD-I Group, but also from members of various other groups, including LaREM and LR.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u342	They're gonna vote our bill?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u343	Amendment No 4 concerns transparency. As I said in the general discussion, the current shortage of doctors is a development that could have been anticipated by decision-makers, be it the public authorities or the national order of doctors. The statistical data made it possible to predict this phenomenon.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u344	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u345	This impreparation seems serious to me. Young medical students have the right to take a critical look at the public authorities and the order of doctors, whose message it has sent for fifty years. We propose to introduce transparency for certain information: the number of medical students, the number of doctors trained by region, the number of doctors actually practising medicine and their specialty. These are elements that are currently not brought to the attention of Members of Parliament or the general public. Amendment No 3 provides for an annual update of the zoning established by the SRAs, such as priority intervention zoning (PIZ) or complementary action zoning (CAZ). At the time of publication, they frequently lag behind the real situation, which has often worsened since the maps were designed, whether urban or rural. Amendment No 2 is intended to make one year's advance notice compulsory for doctors living in underserved territories wishing to stop their activity.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u346	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u347	It was inspired by the case of a multidisciplinary house in Ille-et-Vilaine, a department where I live. Inaugurated in 2015, she welcomed two doctors: a full physician and a replacement physician who had always indicated that he would not practice forever within her. After four years, he wanted to change his career path, which is his strictest right. But what did the attending doctor do? He announced overnight that he would end his activities within four weeks. Within a month, 1,500 patients found themselves without a solution. [[Applause on several benches in the LT group]] Amendment No 1 provides for a selective three-year agreement in the territories undersigned; Amendment No 7 restricts this regulation to two years, a fall-back solution that can be adopted by those who believe the three-year period is too long. The debate will allow us to decide.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u348	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u349	On Amendments Nos 2 and 1, I have a request for a public vote before the independent UDI Group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. What is the committee's opinion on these amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u350	Thierry Benoit is a congressman with his feet on the ground. He therefore defended amendments of common sense. Amendment No 1 is intended to introduce an obligation of transparency for SRAs, which I think is right. During the hearings, we found that there were as many public policies as RSA bosses and that they were not always in line with the needs of the territories concerned. Amendment No 3 on zoning is also relevant. Situations are changing, the presence of doctors is fragile, especially as a result of retirements. According to the SRA, zoning is updated every three years, every year or every six months. Ensuring that it is carried out systematically every year is a proposal of common sense, which generates no cost and which is based on the SRAs, which we would have much to say about elsewhere. Amendment No 2 corresponds to the realities we know in our respective territories. You know, the mayor who discovers by reading the newspaper or talking to a resident that such a doctor has retired. This mandatory one-year notice will allow public authorities, elected officials, in conjunction with state officials, to be more responsive and anticipate the formation of medical desert pockets. As for the last two amendments, they are in line with our bill, proposing means of regulation. Here are the reasons why I am expressing a favourable opinion on these five amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u351	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u352	Unfavorable opinion on these amendments. It should be noted that INSEE provides an update on the availability of care by regularly publishing statistics, as well as the DREES and the Medical Association. Of course, these data deserve to be refined; But this does not require passing through the law, since they already exist. In the case of zoning, zoning is updated every three years. It is not in six months that we can observe the effects of the public policies we decide on. As for the notice, they are already provided for the combined exercise and the health insurance provides conventional assistance to prepare for the cessation of activities of liberal doctors. Finally, as far as selective agreements are concerned, we have already discussed their relevance. I am convinced that in the current context of medical shortages, this is a false good idea. This raw material, which is doctors, must first be restored before measures are imposed that would further complicate access to care for patients in the underserved territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u353	Mrs Jeanine Dubie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u354	The Liberties and Territories Group will vote in favour of these amendments. I would like to focus on the one who introduces one year's notice for doctors, but also, let us stress, for other medical professions. If such a provision already exists for the combined exercise, Madam Deputy Minister, why not apply it to everyone? Let us not forget that these are occupations entirely financed by social security. In view of the fact that these professionals derive their income from public funds, it would seem to me normal that, in return, they should be asked for one year's notice if they wish to cease their activities, change them or leave elsewhere, so that the health authorities and elected representatives can have sufficient time to anticipate and organize themselves.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u355	Mrs Geraldine Bannier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u356	Being elected from Mayenne, I cannot remain silent on the issue of medical deserts. We can speak even if we belong to the majority, Mr rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u357	No one's ever said otherwise!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u358	I am not in favour of regulation through selective agreement, but I am nevertheless sensitive to Amendment No 7 by Mr Benoit. No doubt it is necessary to think about the introduction of a year of compulsory installation in a territory under-funded for young doctors,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u359	Ah, we'll make it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u360	... a little on the teacher's model.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u361	Another little effort!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u362	Some territories will struggle to remain attractive. However, I am listening to the Government: we have introduced the missing numerus and taken other measures. Let's assess their effects in the coming years. Perhaps it will still be necessary to involve doctors in a reflection on their installation. Everyone has encountered difficulties of access to generalists; We have relatives who find it difficult to obtain treatment. It is the reality of a territory like mine, and it must be heard.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u363	Then we have to vote properly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u364	Mrs Valérie Bazin-Malgras has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u365	I am delighted to recognize a glimmer of common sense in the words of the majority. We're gonna make it! As far as notice is concerned, allow me a witness: in my constituency, some communities of communes call on recruitment firms to bring a doctor, spending up to 10000 euros, and one day they learn in the press that the doctor has left! That is, how important notice is.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u366	I put Amendment No. 2 to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u367	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 65 Number of votes cast 62 Absolute majority 32 For adoption 22 Against 40
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u368	I put to the vote Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u369	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 65 Number of votes cast 61 Absolute majority 31 For adoption 22 Against 39
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u370	On Amendment No 21, I have a request from the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. The rapporteur has the floor to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u371	This is perhaps the only opportunity you will have if not to redeem yourself, in any case to show that you are ready to move things forward. I propose to create a conciliation mechanism with the Primary Health Insurance Fund (CPAM) in case of difficulty in finding a treating physician.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u372	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u373	This provision was adopted in January 2019 at the initiative of the majority: during the examination of Guillaume Garot's bill for emergency measures against medical desertification, Audrey Dufeu had tabled an amendment to this effect, which had received the Government's favourable opinion before being adopted. Last week, however, the amendment that I am presenting to you was rejected in committee, which illustrates the inconsistency of the majority, or perhaps its will, which will be confirmed today, to reject everything – even the obvious. The proposed conciliation mechanism is intended to allow social insurance providers who do not find a treating physician to seize the CPAM for referral to an available physician.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u374	It already exists.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u375	In addition, in the absence of a treating doctor, the insured person's reimbursements are lower: this is the double penalty! Not only do the insured have no doctor, but when they end up finding one after the end of a combatant's journey, they find themselves penalized by a lower level of reimbursement. I wanted to table an amendment to the effect that the reduction in health insurance refunds would not apply in the event that the CNAM did not find a replacement doctor, but it naturally ran into Article 40 of the Constitution. [[Hubert Wulfranc and Caroline Fiat applaud]] The minister delegate will tell me that this conciliation mechanism already exists. At the national level, the CNAM has created a call number that allows those who know it to be telephone oriented. However, it is not widespread in all primary funds; On the other hand, by including this mechanism in the law, there is a kind of right to conciliation that is enforceable for people who do not find a doctor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u376	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u377	The rapporteur has said this himself: his proposal is satisfied – so I am not asking for it to be rejected. All CPAMs can communicate the call number, since it was created by the CNAM; They do not, of course, comply with different regimes depending on the case. In case of unsuccessful physician research, insured persons – who must be able to be referred to a doctor as quickly as possible, this is an objective that we all share – can seek the help of the mediator of their affiliation fund. Again, we have no objection in principle to the amendment; Simply, he is satisfied.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u378	Not in the law.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u379	Mrs Lamia El Aaraje has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u380	I fully support this amendment. A system of double punishment is imposed on persons living in underprivileged areas. A Lambda citizen living in an area where medical density does not allow for the finding of a competent and available health contact is not only forced to consult if necessary, but also, if he finally succeeds in obtaining an appointment, a system of sanction through reimbursement. That's not acceptable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u381	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, There's no punishment in this case!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u382	Of course, a call number already exists, but I am not sure that a number is the solution to all problems, especially given the difficulty of accessing information. If you do not support the amendment, Madam Deputy Minister, perhaps you could grant those who are deprived of a doctor who deals with medical demography not to be sanctioned by the reimbursement, because that is totally unfair. As usual with your majority, people are punished for the most precarious and the most vulnerable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u383	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u384	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u385	The minister delegate said that my amendment was satisfied.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u386	Yes, it's voted.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u387	[[Caroline Fiat applauds]] I therefore hope that she will make a commitment in the Chamber to ensure that people who do not have a doctor are not penalized. When questioned by the CNAM, she is unable to tell us what the level of referral to primary health insurance funds by people facing the absence of a doctor is. To include this provision in the law is also to set a political objective and to reaffirm that the persons concerned will not be subjected to a double penalty. So get involved here, not only in promoting the call to the conciliator, but also in ensuring that patients do not suffer the double penalty!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u388	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u389	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u390	Your amendment is satisfied with the law on the financing of social security that you have just adopted.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u391	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u392	In addition, derogations from additional pricing...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u393	How much?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u394	... are granted to persons who have not been able to find a doctor. Clearly, the amendment is satisfied. I am not saying that to please me, but because the provision already appears in the law on the financing of social security, which I invite you to read.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u395	I put Amendment No. 21 to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u396	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 65 Number of votes cast 62 Absolute majority 32 For adoption 18 Against 44
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u397	On Amendments Nos 14, 15 and 16, which are intended to delete Articles 4, 5 and 6 respectively, I am seized by the Socialist and Related Group of requests for public ballots. Votes are announced in the National Assembly. On Rule 4, the floor is Mr Cyrille Isaac-Sibille.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u398	I thank the rapporteur for asking an essential question in this article, that of the type of medicine we want – we have just talked about the treating doctor. In essence, there are two types of community medicine: what was once called the family doctor, who became the attending physician, who is available, whom families can call, who sometimes travels up to seven or eight o'clock in the evening and who exercises as a liberal doctor, because he has no fixed working hours. The other type is salaried medicine, on which, it is true, young doctors wonder: the health centres are open from 9 a.m. to 12 noon and from 14 to 18 o'clock. Doctors do not establish personal relationships with their patients, who do not differ in their dealings with a particular professional. It is another type of medicine, as opposed to family medicine that everyone appreciates – everyone wants to preserve this liberal exercise of the profession. [[Mr. Jean-Paul Mattei applauds]] The purpose of this article is precisely to eliminate the practice of family medicine by not promoting access to liberal medicine. On the contrary, you advocate an action-based wage-earning medicine; the patient would become a client. For me, this is a fundamental problem. I plead for family medicine, for available treating physicians, and not for doctors who would only have relationships with clients.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u399	Mrs Lamia El Aaraje has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u400	Please, dear colleague, show some respect for healthcare professionals...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u401	He's a health professional himself!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u402	... who aspire to pursue their profession in a way different from the one you defend. I do not understand your reasoning: to settle as a liberal would necessarily mean to practice a "family" medicine?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u403	The family doctor, you didn't know him!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u404	And how else can we find a consultation at eight o'clock in the evening?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u405	Do not stigmatize the aspirations of young health professionals, whom I invite you to meet. Young doctors now prefer to settle in a collective setting and be wage-earners...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u406	And end up at 18 o'clock?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u407	They must be respected without stigmatizing them. Please don't be downgraded and insult professionals whose aspirations differ from those you defend!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u408	Be careful, it's a rear-guard fight!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u409	Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u410	The reflection on salaried doctors also comes from our meetings in medical schools, where the students themselves explain to us that there is a loss between the number of students trained and the number of those who become doctors. So we're looking to know why. When we begin to dig into the subject, we discover that many of them do not wish to become slaves to their profession.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u411	I agree.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u412	This is what emerges from their reflections on the activity of a city doctor. They aspire to have a normal life, they say, especially since many of them are women – in any case, they are the ones who showed up, answering that they wanted time to be able to accompany their children in their various activities or to discuss with teachers when necessary. Men's doctors also say they want time to look after their children and live a dignified family life. There is therefore no objection to be found. Those who have the vocation and wish, a bit like the deputies - in any case those who are on the ground on a daily basis - to work day and night and to be corvetable at thank you seven days a week, the assumption, when others do differently. So accept the idea, ladies and gentlemen, that tomorrow's medicine can remain a local medicine, but with a different status!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u413	That's the problem!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u414	[[Applause on several benches in the GDR group. – Mrs Caroline Fiat also applauds]] You're finally talking about the link; Know that in a city of 5000 or 10,000 inhabitants, two salaried doctors will end up knowing the population and having the same relationship with it as a family doctor would have had.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u415	I have before me an amendment, No 14, to delete Article 4. Mr Julien Borowczyk has the floor to support it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u416	I would like to apologise to you, rapporteur: I am a doctor!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u417	[[Alain Bruneel applauds]] There's a lot of them!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u418	For my part, I think it may be interesting for Members to have expertise. However, it is felt that this would prevent sitting in the Chamber... Perhaps you could sit all the time, as a result!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u419	What a contempt!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u420	I would like to return briefly to the previous article before defending the deletion amendment. I recall that access to the care of a attending physician is enshrined in the law. Failing this, the consultation is considered an emergency and the patient is reimbursed. Guaranteeing access to a treating physician is also the first of the missions, and an obligation, for the CPTS that we develop. Let me turn to Article 4, which we propose to delete. You were speaking with pride of the Communist group, ladies and gentlemen. This article, like all this law, is indeed part of a communist logic that reminds me of the great debates between Jean-Pierre Elkabbach and Georges Marchais: when one is too rich, "100%, I take everything! »
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u421	You have memory, that's good. It was over 40,000 francs!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u422	In this case, that is what you propose with Article 4. However, as our colleague Isaac-Sibille pointed out, are we really too rich in doctors somewhere? Tell us where, because, for my part, I still don't know! But it doesn't matter, it's still "100%, I take everything." The same applies to the start-of-exercise contract: you take everything and ventilate in a puzzle way, as in Soviet planning, saying that you are going to put health centres everywhere.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u423	It's Les Tontons gunners!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u424	What fantasies!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u425	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] This is not the goal at all: we are setting up a one-stop shop to justify and promote facilities, whether they are liberal or in a health centre. It is precisely the living together that we were talking about right now: living together as a Liberal, a health centre or a multi-professional collaboration within a CPTS. This system must continue to be promoted. The 3DS bill provides precisely that local and regional authorities will be able to help health centres: of which act. But don't put health centres everywhere!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u426	An expert, that's good!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u427	When the lobby expresses itself!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u428	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u429	[[Applause on a few benches of the GDR group]] Dr Isaac-Sibille, you are reac – finally, conservative. I'm sorry to say so, but...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u430	Mr. Rapporteur...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u431	The previous speaker was insulting, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u432	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Mr Corbière, things were going well until your arrival some time ago was noticed. Everything's going well, and please keep calm.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u433	The previous speaker behaved like a rude character, and you didn't react!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u434	You're going to go down in a tone right now, Mr. Corbière.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u435	[[Long protests on the benches of the LaREM group]] I'm doing what I want! I'm not going down in a tone!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u436	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group. – Protests on the benches of the FI group]] No, no! Attention, Mr. Corbière... [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] No, no, you will not address yourself in this way, either to the presiding officer or to any Member of Parliament. There is respect in the House and in the Chamber!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u437	You didn't get it with our colleague!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u438	Maybe you're too far away from it! Anyway, there will be respect as long as I'm in this place, and you will respect the rules. On the other hand, Mr Jumel, there is no shame that a colleague should be a doctor or practise a completely different profession: it is the honour of our House to represent the diversity of civil society. There are here, whatever the benches they occupy, Members of the Nation. There is not one profession that would be more represented than another.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u439	Yes, but...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u440	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] I simply ask you to ensure that everyone can be considered a Member of the Nation, as you yourself are, Mr. Jumel.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u441	[[MM. Ugo Bernalicis, Alexis Corbière and Paul Molac applaud]] It is precisely because there is no shame in being a doctor that I allow myself to call our colleagues who are by their title, especially since they often claim it. Moreover, our assembly's rules could provide for deportation on certain matters: this might have allowed the numerus clausus to be loosened earlier. I was saying, colleague Isaac-Sibille, that you were a Conservative and a real person because, first of all, you deny a reality: 54% of young doctors aspire to work as an employee. On the other hand, as our colleagues have said, they are more and more women. The profession is feminizing and it seems to me to be a good thing. There is also an aspiration, a quest for meaning: young doctors want to regain a normal rhythm of life and reconcile the exercise of a beautiful profession, which I respect deeply,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u442	It doesn't sound like it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u443	...with a family life. As many doctors as possible, this implies a reduction in medical coverage time. That is why we believe that the provision made by the majority will not improve the situation. The hearings of the directors of ARS that we have conducted also lead me to consider that the creation of health centres with paid doctors is not accompanied everywhere in the same way. The corporatist unions, like the regional unions of liberal doctors (URML), are in fact opposed in certain regions – particularly mine – to the creation of such centres for ideological, conservative and reactionary reasons. For our part, we believe, and we have experience, that the answers must be added together. There are in my territory multidisciplinary liberal houses that work well and that we have accompanied. There are also health centres, which we also support, but which we would like the state to support more: this is the purpose of Article 4. [[Exclaims on a few benches of the LaREM group]] I come to the remarks of our colleague Borowczyk, who also claims to be a doctor – a term that is obviously not an insult in my mouth, even though I have been concerned about the attention that many doctors have paid to the hearings that I conducted before I introduced this bill. I had escaped the feeling that physiotherapists, liberal nurses, pharmacists or taxi drivers felt that they were working in kolkhozes or that they had been nationalized. We have been saying for some time now that public funding for studies and the exercise of these professions makes legitimate the fact that public authorities ensure balanced development, in order to guarantee equality in the right to access care. This does not seem to worry you, but it is a guarantee of constitutional value, which is superior – I apologize for saying so – to the freedom of installation, which has only legislative value. We reaffirm our commitment to equal access to care, wherever we live and the money we have! [[Exclaims on a few benches of the LaREM group. – MM. Hubert Wulfranc and Ugo Bernalicis applaud]] [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] I hear "Oh"! When you talk about money and poor people, it causes class reactions. But our responsibility is also to enable people, regardless of their money and condition, to have equal access to care, which is a constitutional guarantee. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u444	Well done, Mr. Rapporteur!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u445	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u446	He's in favor. Article 4 aims to redirect public funding to health centres. We have heard the many testimonies of those who say that they have built a beautiful health home in which there is no one. Under these conditions, it is better to help the operation. It is better to help, as we do, with the installation at the beginning of a professional exercise in tense territories, or with the wage-earning exercise in a health centre with, for example, the "400 general practitioners" device that you always forget to mention: half of the positions are offered as part of a wage-earner in a health centre and support is given to the employer, and therefore to the community. Finally, as you pointed out, Bill 3DS will secure the recruitment by communities of personnel required to carry out missions to health centres. It will enable communities to build on the regulatory framework applicable to the territorial public service in the area of compensation. My department thus begins to salaried doctors; Others, much more advanced, have up to eighty-six. I invite you to meet them, as I did,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u447	So do we!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u448	... to understand how it works. With regard to the existing multidisciplinary health centres, which are attractive, I believe that they should be assisted in their operation by accompanying them in the recruitment of doctors, but not only: they should also be helped to develop in the territory. They will make emulations, believe me; I see projects blooming all over the place. Let us therefore help them in their functioning.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u449	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u450	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR group and on several benches of the groups Acte ens, IDU-I and LT]] Several interventions, in particular that of my neighbour in the Loire department, do not take account of the drafting of Article 4. It does deal with the financing of health centres, but, let us be honest, it does not question the possibility of providing assistance to liberal doctors to settle in underfunded areas, particularly in health homes financed by local authorities. Dear colleagues of the Lyon metropolis and the rural territories of the Loire, you have a department near you, that of the Saône-et-Loire, whose president, member of the Republican party, has set up a departmental health centre. I invited him to my constituency so that he could testify at a conference I organized. And this center works! But contrary to what you want us to say, ladies and gentlemen, it does not work in opposition, but in complementarity with liberal doctors! Of course, we want to retain active liberal doctors. Those in the rural area where I live, which is comparable to that of your department, dear colleague of the Loire, do not see the installation of salaried doctors with a bad eye. In Saint-Germain-l'Herm, a commune close to mine, the department of Puy-de-Dôme has set up its first salaried doctor as part of a health centre. Don't caricature our proposal like it's worthy of North Korea! It takes into account the terrain, the needs of our territories and the fact that there are now elderly people who do not find a doctor – it is a reality! – and therefore do not take care of themselves. It is a question of health security for the population, both in rural areas and in urban areas.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u451	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u452	[[Murmures on the benches of the LaREM group]] During the general discussion, we heard that the moving Republic group would show humility. But the insult has never been a proof of humility; That's a first point. [[Protests on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Then, whenever a proposal is made to improve the conditions for access to French and French care, you sigh: "Ah but no, and first we did a lot of things... I'd rather you take the microphone so that everyone can enjoy it, ladies and gentlemen! Listening to you, you've done everything, copying is perfect. But still! Look at the news! You're the government that has had the highest rate of resignation in decades, and I'm sorry for you!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u453	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u454	[[Mr. Ugo Bernalicis applauds]] However, it is the communist benches and the benches of the unsubs who have alerted you on this point since 2017! Doctors quit!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u455	It's worse in communist countries!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u456	[[Murmures on several benches of the LaREM group]] Stop telling us that you know everything, that you know everything and that you have nothing to blame! You have done things, certainly, but we have alerted you... Take the microphone, colleagues: I assure you, it is not forbidden, you are allowed to speak in a microphone!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u457	That's enough!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u458	Please, Mrs. Fiat...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u459	Being insulted in his back is always annoying...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u460	Listen to me, Mrs. Fiat. We will talk with great respect and calm. Everyone will defend his or her point of view without invoking the other, either because of his or her political affiliation or because of his or her personal background. Things are going to be fine! I invite you to continue; Your arguments are just as admissible as those of others and it is not useful to inveterate from one bench to another. You have 30 seconds to complete your argument.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u461	[[Mr. Ugo Bernalicis and Ms. Marie-George Buffet applaud]] So admit, colleagues, that things have been done but that you have not wanted to hear the many warnings from communist or unsubmissive benches since 2017. Now the resignations are coming. Have a little humility!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u462	Mrs Stéphanie Rist has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u463	[[Julien Borowczyk applauds]] First of all, I do not agree with Mr Chassaigne when he says that the choice is allowed: Article 4 provides for the reorientation of the financing of the incentives for the installation to the health centres. Secondly, the increasing proportion of female doctors has been cited on several occasions to explain a decrease in working time; However, studies by DREES show that this is a generational effect and not a consequence of the increased presence of women in the profession. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] [[Same movements]] Finally, we want to speak gently of the idea that a certain medical corporatism would manifest itself in the Chamber. I am proud to belong to the first majority who precisely fought this corporatism by expanding the skills of other health professionals, the opportunities to delegate tasks to them. As for the rest, I refer you to a very interesting book by Frédéric Pierru, Hippocrates sick of his reforms, published in 2007: you will see from his reading that medical corporatism is not the most important in the Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u464	Mr Cyrille Isaac-Sibille has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u465	Of course, young doctors are attracted to wage earners: they want a certain way of life. Man or woman, you enjoy finishing your working day at seventeen o'clock...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u466	It's caricatural!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u467	...to get his children out of school. That's normal! But in these conditions, what to do when at eighteen o'clock one of your own children feels bad? The health centre is closed: you have to go to the emergency room.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u468	Do you know many health centres that close at seven o'clock?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u469	Moreover, I agree with Mr Chassaigne on the need for a balance between the two structures. Mr rapporteur, young doctors want to settle as employees, which is why they do not settle as liberals. If we do nothing, there will soon be no more in the territories, in addition to emergencies, than health centres. Is it not better, once again, that the law defines a balance and that alongside the salaried doctors there remain liberal doctors, more available? I don't see how this position would be conservative! As Mrs Rist pointed out, Article 4 is intended to redirect all financial aid towards paid medicine; It is the Liberal generalist, the family doctor, who is at risk.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u470	Mrs Valérie Bazin-Malgras has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u471	Madam Deputy Minister, it is with satisfaction that you have listed your proposals...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u472	I didn't say I was satisfied!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u473	[[Exclaims on a few benches of the LaREM group]] ...to help doctors practice in the countryside. I don't agree with you: it doesn't work! The beautiful new medical houses remain empty!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u474	That's what I'm telling you!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u475	I heard you very well, Madam Minister Delegate. You mention a lot of things, but you've been in power for four and a half years and nothing's going on! All we see is that there are no doctors in the countryside. That's the truth!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u476	Forgive me, but I cannot give the floor to the other colleagues who ask for it: you know the rule. We are not going to repeat the general discussion on each amendment! I put to the vote Amendment No. 14.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u477	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 66 Number of votes cast 64 Absolute majority 33 For adoption 41 Against 23
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u478	I call Mrs Stéphanie Rist to support Amendment No. 15, which seeks to delete Rule 5.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u479	The purpose of this article is to ensure that every citizen has a hospital where surgery and obstetrics are carried out within 30 minutes by motorized transport from his or her home. In view of the medical demography, this provision is unrealistic: we lack surgeons, anesthetists, gynaecologists. Above all, our vision differs from yours. You want territorial homogeneity; And what matters to people is that their demand for community care receives a graduated response, which we do on the one hand with CPTS, and on the other hand by labeling community hospitals.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u480	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u481	It's complicated to keep calm while your posture is to caricature us. We are in favour of liberal multidisciplinary medical homes: the text contains two articles designed to ensure the installation of doctors in areas where they are lacking. We are in favour of the CPTS: I regret that they cover only 60% of the territory. We are in favour of health centres employing salaried doctors, to the point of proposing that they be included in the law so that everyone is housed in the same sign. Moreover, not being a doctor does not make it impossible to design solutions! Most of the members of our group are engaged in their ridings, sit on hospital supervision boards, have supported the movements of health workers: they are able to formulate intelligent proposals. In 1997, 290,000 women of childbearing age lived more than 45 minutes from a maternity home; today there are 716000. You'll tell me it's great, it's modern, it's extraordinary! The number of French people who are more than 30 minutes away from a health response has increased by 26%, or 2 million more people. According to the Association des maires rurales de France, 75% of the 6 million of our rural citizens are away from emergency services. That is why we propose to include in the law this principle of 30 minutes of travel time. We must set ourselves the political objective of giving content to the concept of community hospital. You plan to label 500: given the living pools, the geographer who specializes in these issues considers it necessary for 2000. In any case, if your local hospitals are so many empty shells, they will turn to EHPAD! We want them to have advanced consultations and, eventually, gynaecological-obstetric activities: you find this stupid, but it remains that a community hospital without advanced medicine or maternity will only serve to care for the dependents. Many of them are already in this case. They need mobile emergency and resuscitation structures (SMUR), a permanence of care – in this regard, you did not reply about the fact that only 39% of liberal generalists participate in outpatient stays, which is still a concern for the 11% of French people deprived of access to care. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u482	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u483	Favourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u484	Mr. Nicolas Turquois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u485	I have not spoken so far, but if I agree with you about the lack of health professionals, there are still actors you are forgetting: local elected officials. Only Mr. Chassaigne quoted them earlier. I will take the example of my municipality. In 2012, for a thousand inhabitants, there was only one doctor, two years after his retirement; Instead of creating a medical home and relying on the nest to bring the birds, we looked for ways to attract a young doctor, to promote his project. Result: thirteen healthcare professionals,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u486	It's the competition of the territories!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u487	... three and a half generalists – my constituency must have eighty, of which I personally know two-thirds. We're building with them, we're going to see them, we're facilitating their relationship with the hospital. The state provides the means to implement its policies, but cannot impose on doctors...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u488	A State that does not impose, it is not a State!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u489	... to settle here or there: he must leave his hand to the territories and they must take it. To return to the amendment, there was a small maternity in my territory. Everyone wanted it very much; However, almost everyone, when a delivery was announced, preferred the quality technical platform available to the CHU. The reality is that! There is a need for community hospitals for follow-up care, for advanced consultations: on this point, I agree with the rapporteur. But for a number of other actions, people will choose for themselves a facility a little further away, but where they have the assurance that the intervention will go well. That is why I am in favour of deleting the article.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u490	Mr Thomas Mesnier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u491	The question of community hospitals must be considered as a matter of question and by listening to all the proposals, wherever they come from. We bring our experiences, our ideas; This is how the debate is getting richer and better. However, these hospitals do not have empty shells: their competences, defined by the law of 24 July 2019 on the organisation and transformation of the health system, include consultations and services in medicine, hospitalization, follow-up care. On the other hand, it had been noted that our resources no longer allowed us to provide any hospital, even a local hospital, with an operating unit and a maternity unit – we already have all the troubles of the world to avoid the closure of many of them. I will take the example I know best, that of the Charente. Surgeons, urologists, orthopedists from the hospital of Angoulême will once a week give consultations in those of Barbezieux-Saint-Hilaire, Ruffec or Confolens, as close as possible to the patients; Then, if necessary, it is in Angoulême that they operate. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Thus there are solutions adopted in good intelligence, at the level of the hospital group of territory (GHT), in order to bring an offer of care to all – with the means of the edge, from the numerus clausus, of past choices before which we must remain humble, because they have been made by all the majorities, by all the political groups. Finally, it was because of the difficulties in accessing maternity care that, in the context of the review of the future Social Security Financing Act for 2020, we adopted the "Maternity Commitment" scheme, allowing women living too far from such a facility to benefit from transport and accommodation services. The pandemic delayed its implementation, as the majority and the opposition acknowledged during the consideration of the draft law on the financing of social security for 2022; The Government has pledged that it will take place as soon as possible. Access to maternity care will be simplified for our women.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u492	I put to the vote Amendment No 15.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u493	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 62 Number of votes cast 60 Absolute majority 31 For adoption 41 Against 19
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u494	Mrs Christine Cloarec - Le Nabour, in support of Amendment No 16, which deletes Rule 6.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u495	The community hospitals provided for by the law of 24 July 2019 are intended to provide primary care, in connection with the health professionals of the territory. As long as it appears to be compatible with their functioning, the structuring of advanced consultation channels, already possible, becomes desirable in order to coordinate and optimize the support. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] On the other hand, it remains essential that obstetrics and conventional or outpatient surgery continue to be carried out in establishments with technical trays, thus ensuring the quality of care and the safety of people. It is therefore appropriate to maintain the ban on community hospitals to carry out these activities: this is the subject of this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u496	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u497	Unfavorable opinion. Recall that the law on the reform of the hospital and on patients, health and territories, known as the Bachelot law, has contributed to the relocation of the territory: it has created mastodontic health territories, concentrated the health responses in the metropolises and, in so doing, removed from these responses the most forgotten territories of the Republic. It should also be noted that 30% of hospital practitioner positions are vacant, especially in the territories with a human dimension, which are the most vulnerable, and much less in university hospitals or large metropolises. This factor of territorial inequality is thus aggravated. What do we propose in this article 6? The aim is to include in the law the principle that equal access to care is a concern of Parliament. We want the CHU and the GHT support to have a concern "to go towards", as we propose in the context of vaccination, and to develop advanced consultations as close as possible to the most fragile inhabitants. We have not said enough in this debate: the territories without doctors in which you – I mean the Liberals – have closed beds and facilities and deteriorated the care response are precisely those where the health of the population is most degraded, whether in terms of mortality, addictive behaviour, occupational diseases or ageing. We finally give less to those who already have little. [[Applause on several benches of the GDR and FI groups]] Your inability to respond to this reality makes us angry. I say that by looking at our colleague Karine Lebon, we have devoted a passage from our report to the overseas territories, which are at the heart of the current situation. The way they are treated in terms of the care response is a permanent humiliation, an unacceptable, nameless abandonment, which we also propose to settle with this bill. I see that you are making great gestures: you are liberals, you are in favour of laissez-faire and laissez-passer; You want to put a brake on immobilism, but in reality, you just take care of those who don't need anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u498	Six hundred million is not nothing!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u499	That'll make a nice video vignette!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u500	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u501	Favourable to this deletion amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u502	Mr Paul Molac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u503	Your responses regarding medical desertification and access to a hospital near the home are still lacking in depth. I heard earlier that to find a motherhood, women could travel 90 kilometres from home a week before giving birth, and stay away from their families, far from everything.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u504	Nobody said that!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u505	I don't agree at all with this type of medicine. I can see that it is the movement that is emerging. Small maternity wards close one after the other. We will do that anyway. You also do not take into account the speed factor. What do we do in an emergency? People were saved because the emergency services were a quarter of an hour away from home; After half an hour, they'd be dead. You're saying it's okay...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u506	Nobody said it wasn't a big deal!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u507	...and that there will be efficient transport. I'm not sure they're effective enough. Then, Mr. Turquois spoke of local elected officials, who should "sweep" the doctors to come and settle in their communes. Is medicine within the competence of local elected officials?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u508	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u509	I want medicine to be decentralized, but in reality, it's not. You're offloading on local elected officials,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u510	There you go! We're pulling the flutes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u511	... who create health homes, finance them with public money, and then try to approach doctors, knowing that if they don't, they won't come on their own. Yes, you're off-loading on local elected officials. [[Applause on several benches of the GDR group]] [[Applause on several benches in the LT, GDR and FI groups. – Mrs Valérie Bazin-Malgras also applauds]] Finally, I hear that citizens would not be virtuous enough, because they refuse to go to a particular hospital. It seems to me that we are at their service – in any case, that is my goal. That's why I'm defending for them access to local institutions, quite simply. The speeches we hear fuel the desertification of the countryside and promote the consolidation of services in the cities. Because there are doctors! Believe me, if medical desertification affected the centre of Paris, it's been a long time since the problem would be solved!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u512	It's demago!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u513	I wouldn't allow myself to react... Mrs Annie Chapelier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u514	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] So much the rapporteur knows how much I personally support the majority of his proposals, as much as I am opposed to these provisions. For having lived in several small community hospitals and given the medical demographics, I know that we would put the population at risk by maintaining structures that do not have sufficient staff to ensure continuity of care. I am thinking in particular of maternity. I worked in several maternity wards where obstetric gynaecologists were not present 24 hours a day and could have very long delivery times, potentially endangering patients. I am surprised that you are not speaking at any time – this is not a reproach, since this is not the subject of the bill – of the solutions to which we are turning, which will help to address the problem of medical desertification. I am referring to the intermediate professions: for the permanence of care and advanced consultations, the evolution of the non-medical health professions moving towards advanced practice is one of the major responses that we can bring to the imbalance existing in the territories, and this is in no way a discount medicine. A midwife with expanded skills, through in-depth training, can carry out this advanced consultation, even in territories far from technical centres; The same applies to a nurse in advanced practice. The adoption of the Social Security Financing Bill for 2022 also opens up the possibility for masseur-kinesistherapists to carry out these first-recourse consultations. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] We must continue to do so if we are to meet the needs. I agree with you on the need for a better distribution of doctors, but it is illusory to think that it will be possible to increase their number and working time, given the evolution of practices and the societal progress of health professionals, which we do not have to criticize or judge.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u515	Mr. Nicolas Turquois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u516	[[Mr. Erwan Balanant applauds]] I would like to react to the inquiry of our colleague Paul Molac. Which local elected would consider building a medical home without conducting a global reflection? What prevents him from soliciting the Member of Parliament for the riding to meet with medical students from his territory and see if he can accompany some of them during their installation? A local elected official has the opportunity to act, even if it does not fall within his primary competence! We must not remain in total impotence! We're asking for more decentralization, but on the other hand, we don't want to be autonomous!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u517	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u518	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] For a Breton, not being self-sufficient is surprising!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u519	I have already indicated this, but I will repeat this: the Rules of Procedure allow each group to express itself on an article. You don't know the opportunity to do it, you do great! On the other hand, we must respect the rules that apply to the discussion of the amendments if we want the debates to move forward and if all the texts presented in the niche of the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left can be examined under the same conditions. I put to the vote Amendment No. 16.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u520	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 69 Number of votes cast 67 Absolute majority 34 For adoption 46 Against 21
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u521	I call Mr Thierry Benoit to support Amendment No. 6.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u522	I will not list all the incentives for the installation of existing Liberal physicians. However, it would be useful to identify them and assess their impact. The most recent arrangements are the bonus to the installation proposed by President Emmanuel Macron, with 50,000 euros, and the defiscalisation in the rural revitalization area: a young doctor who settles in a rural revitalization area is assured not to pay taxes for almost eight years. I would like, if only for these two devices, to know the number of doctors who are benefiting. This amendment therefore requests a report in order to know the result of the existing incentives.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u523	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u524	I express a favourable opinion, especially since the Court of Auditors, the Treasury Directorate, the Ministry itself at the hearings, stressed that it was difficult to assess the effectiveness of these incentives and that it was quite relative – otherwise, we would not debate since this morning the territorial inequalities of access to the care we are facing. Controlling the amount, extent and effectiveness of these aids to move them towards the measures we are proposing is, of course, a step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u525	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u526	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u527	Installation aids are diverse and varied, as you know: conventional aids, internship support, co-ordinated exercise or telehealth. You would like to assess all of these within one year, but the scope and timing of your request for a report does not seem relevant in the light of the evolution of these measures. I reply to the rapporteur who asked for figures: 4751 demographic incentive contracts were signed by doctors on 1 January 2021 and are still in progress.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u528	Mrs Annie Chapelier has the floor to support Amendment No. 9.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u529	This is an appeal amendment. In order to carry out a genuine policy of medical attractiveness, it is necessary to encourage interns to carry out internships in outpatients, liberals, underprivileged or otherwise, in order to discover territories which they would not otherwise have thought of. The boarding school is for a period of three years; Internships are often carried out around the university hospital and rarely in more remote areas. The measure that I propose is to increase the number of internship teachers in universities and to encourage general practitioners in this process. President Chassaigne said earlier that he had had a conversation with Minister Olivier Véran, in the presence of the rapporteur, about this question of university traineeships and the possibility of reducing the number of parameters that are necessary for them, or even increasing their educational allowance. I would be very interested to hear from you on this subject, Madam Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u530	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u531	Favourable. I forgot to say earlier that the Senate passed in 2019, in the Act on the Organization and Transformation of the Health System, known as OTSS, an article requiring physicians to carry out internships in sub-dense areas. The Government had been expected to issue an implementing decree for the past two years, but that had not yet been done. Even when the measures are adopted by Parliament, go in the right direction and are in line with what our colleague is proposing in another register, you refuse to apply them. I therefore express an opinion in favour of this amendment, inviting you to issue the decree reflecting the will expressed by the Senate two years ago.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u532	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u533	Request for withdrawal or, failing that, unfavorable notice. You made it clear that this was an appeal amendment, Ms. Chapelier. The Government is committed to facilitating and encouraging this master's degree, which we need. I confirm that the orders made pursuant to section 4 of the OTSS Act will be published by the end of the year: a commission is to meet on 16 December and the publication will take place immediately thereafter. Proactive action with RSAs and RSUs will be launched at the same time.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u534	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 22.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u535	Medical assistants are a good device. I pointed out in my introductory statement that they were being deployed at an insufficient rate, since the aim of recruiting 4000 was not achieved. This amendment, which seeks a report, aims to assess their deployment, both in number and in terms of territorialisation, in order to ensure that they are well established where needs arise. This device saves medical time – in the order of 20%, it seems. As much as deploy them where it is necessary and not in the overdensity areas.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u536	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u537	On our goal of recruiting 4,000 medical assistants, 2178 contracts were signed as at 30 June 2021. They allow doctors to take care of an additional 351607 patients. It is premature to prepare a report: we will do so once we reach the target of 4000 medical assistants recruited. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u538	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u539	I support this request for a report, especially since at the time, Minister Agnès Buzyn made the promise in the Chamber that the posts of medical assistants would be reserved for nursing assistants – in fact, they meet exactly the same training criteria. At the end of the career, some caregivers suffer from musculoskeletal disorders, can no longer practise their profession and find themselves unemployed. It would be interesting for a report to tell us whether the promise made before our assembly has been kept, and how many caregivers at the end of their careers are affected by the 2178 contracts signed. I already know the answer: none.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u540	Of course, a report settles everything!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u541	As all the articles or amendments to the additional article have been rejected, the bill as a whole is rejected.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u542	The next item is the discussion, pursuant to Article 34(1) of the Constitution, of the motion for a resolution on the establishment of an exceptional plan to accompany the rapid ageing of Martinique (point 2757).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u543	In the general discussion, the floor was for Ms. Manuela Kéclard-Mondésir.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u544	Martinique is at the turn of a major demographic change: it was France's youngest territory in the early 2000s and is now becoming the oldest territory by 2050. The proportion of people over 65 years of age has increased from 15% in 2010 to 22% today; It is expected to reach 50% in 2050, compared with 27.3% for hexagonal France at the same time. Beyond the figures, the most serious thing is that this ageing will have lasting consequences on our territory. The most serious is also the social situation of this ageing population: in Martinique, one third of the over 60s live below the poverty line, compared with 10% in Hexagon. This precariousness is expressed in the use of allowances: 18.4% of older people over 65 are entitled to the old-age solidarity allowance (ASPA) in Martinique, compared with 4% in Hexagone; 10% of this age group receives the personal autonomy allowance (APA) in Martinique, compared with 7.7% in Hexagone. Finally, Martinique's housing welfare (ASH) rate is twice as high as that of Hexagone. This situation of financial precariousness and dependency on allowances is aggravated by the high cost of living, which is the central problem of our territories. Isolation is also a factor, with 55% of older people living alone. To this is added their refusal to leave their home, which should not be interpreted as a mere cultural hazard: it is also a structural problem. While EHPADs are the main accommodation solutions offered, the 80% of places entitled to social assistance are occupied; As a result, 68% of ABS recipients live at home. The accommodation capacity is insufficient: there are only twenty-five EHPADs, i.e. 1787 places, and there are no intermediate accommodation offers. Therefore, the elderly remain at home, sometimes voluntarily, but mainly because they have no other choice. Finally, Martinique suffers from a general lack of doctors and caregivers. Some areas are medical deserts and lack specialists – often they are also the areas most affected by ageing. The reasons for this motion for a resolution have been these findings. Although we are lagging behind in the measures to be taken, it is still time to anticipate the ageing of the Martinic population. The autonomy agency project plays a central role in our resolution: the aim is to create a single window, more efficient for users, by merging the departmental and municipal services responsible for old age and dependency. This agency would draw inspiration from the departmental houses of autonomy, whose functioning I have been able to observe in other departments and which seem to me to be a response not only satisfactory, but also necessary to steer the policies of autonomy on the ground. The impetus may come from the territorial community of Martinique, with which I am in discussion, but we could also be accompanied by the state: I expect an answer on this point. Autonomy in Martinique is also the creation of an exceptional fund aimed in particular at the renovation of EHPADs and the development of intermediate accommodation solutions. It could encourage the deployment of Homes and Homes for Self-Government (MARPA), a model that corresponds to the demand in Martinique – I visited such homes in other territories. This fund would reduce the construction costs for project developers, and thus reduce rents, knowing that the issue of rent is central to the supply that we need to develop. The Ségur de la santé has provided additional resources, i.e. €20 million for overseas countries, with an emphasis on EHPADs. This is a start, but 20 million euros weigh little on the scale of all overseas. The new missions of the EHPADs, voted in the framework of the Social Security Financing Bill (PLFSS) for 2022, call for greater ambition. EHPAD outside the walls must become a reality, especially in a difficult territory to cover like Martinique, hit by medical desertification: establishments must be able to develop solutions to users, and not just the opposite. With regard to intermediate accommodation solutions, the draft law on differentiation, decentralization, deconcentration and various measures to simplify local public action (3DS) clarifies certain competences and envisages facilitation arrangements; However, the means it provides are insufficient. Project promoters in Martinique express their difficulty in proposing viable projects: costs are too high, while aid and subsidies are insufficient. Under these conditions, they can only offer users inaccessible rates. Intermediate accommodation solutions must aim at financial accessibility. They require more resources, which is why we want to create an exceptional fund. Again with regard to costs, I propose to exempt from VAT companies which constitute small units of life, over a period of ten years and under the supervision of the competent public authorities. The tax interest tool has proven itself on many occasions to create activity and develop projects in targeted sectors; this lever could be activated in the short and medium term in Martinique, in order to facilitate an effective meshing of the supply of establishments. Self-reliance in Martinique is still support for elderly people in situations of great insecurity. In response, I propose to gradually increase the amount of ABS in order to reduce the remaining dependants of those who reside in institutions and cancel it for those who have a high level of dependency. I also propose that the APA be opened up to the financing of technical, digital and multi-service home aids. We find some reasons for satisfaction in the PLFSS for 2022: I am thinking of setting the minimum rate of 22 euros for the time of home intervention, and of creating a quality allocation for home interventions in difficult circumstances, which brings the rate to 25 euros. I welcome this standardization and tariff increase. The PLFSS also plans to limit the remaining burden, including for technical aids: I have defended this claim, and I welcome its inclusion in the law. However, there is still a need to adapt social aids and minima to the cost of living in Martinique, in order to ensure decent living conditions for everyone. Autonomy in Martinique is also the return of graduated young Martinicians, especially specialists in geriatric medicine, but also of health workers. It is important to encourage young people to return to the territory by strengthening the Centre for Material and Moral Interests (CIMM) criterion: this would help stem the aging of the population and contribute to the overall effort to provide dignified living conditions for our elders. Contrary to what the Government claims, civic service is not a satisfactory response to immediate staffing problems. Instead, concrete and lasting solutions must be found to increase the number of staff. Autonomy in Martinique is finally a city policy that integrates ageing in order to act at best, with the appropriate means. There are already additional coefficients for the overseas countries, especially for Martinique, but here too, more clarity and ambition are needed. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] The motion for a resolution that I am submitting to you is of practical and political significance. I take note of the efforts that have been made since the creation of the fifth branch, despite the absence of the long-awaited law on autonomy and old age. At the political level, much remains to be done for Martinique, among other territories. The adoption of our motion for a resolution would be a strong sign of the State's willingness to cooperate with Martinique in the field of ageing.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u545	Mrs Stéphanie Atger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u546	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Kéclard-Mondésir was tabled on the initiative of the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left in March 2020. While the social context remains degraded in Guadeloupe and Martinique, this debate offers us the opportunity to recall what the state has committed to the ultramarine territories. The necessary appeasement must be brought about by global responses, at a time when some overseas territories will face an increased ageing. The demographic context of Martinique is expected to make it France's oldest territory by 2050. In this connection, I would like to refer to the report that my colleague Ericka Bareigts and I submitted in February 2020 on ageing in the overseas world. While the seven articles of the motion for a resolution have the merit of recalling the realities of Martinique, it should also be stressed that many measures, whether financial, human or health, have been adopted since 2017 in favour of seniors. Article 1 proposes the creation of an agency of autonomy in Martinique, in the form of a public interest grouping (GIP). This wish seems already feasible, drawing on the alternative functioning of the national framework currently exercised in Saint-Martin and Saint-Barthélemy. Article 2 suggests the creation of an exceptional experimental fund for the autonomy and management of ageing, in order to rehabilitate six EHPADs identified as priorities by Martinique's regional health agency (ARS) and to develop new solutions for the accommodation of seniors better adapted to the Martinican context. Within the framework of the Ségur de la santé, €1.5 billion has been spent over five years on the renovation and creation of places in EHPAD; EUR 20 million will be reserved exclusively for the overseas territories and Corsica. These investments have been undertaken since March 2020; As a result, many projects are under way. The development of new forms of housing will also be facilitated by the 3DS Act, which the Assembly will consider from 6 December. The creation of the fifth branch of social security, dedicated to the support of autonomy and with a budget of more than 32 billion euros, will help to structure our policies in support of autonomy, including in Martinique. These advances are major.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u547	The purpose of Article 4 is to plan for a gradual increase in the amount of the APA in order to reduce the remaining institutional burden for the most modest, as well as to allow for the financing of new aid schemes by the APA. Such a provision is mainly a matter of local contracting, with the development of an adapted offer.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u548	However, it should be recalled that the Caisse nationale de solidarité pour l'autonomy (CNSA) takes into account the insularity and remoteness of the territories of the metropolis. In 2020, €23 million under the personalised autonomy allowance, €4.5 million under the disability compensation benefit and over €870000 for prevention actions were allocated to Martinique. I would also like to recall that, in the context of the financial assistance paid to the departments, the Government and our majority have made it possible to achieve unprecedented salary increases:183 euros net per month in the EHPADs and other medical and social institutions and services covered by the agreements reached by the Laforcade mission; an average increase of 15% for staff in the home helpers' collective agreement associations. This year, we raised the floor rate to 22 euros per hour for home help services, plus 3 euros for quality support, with financial support from the State.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u549	Article 5 aims to encourage the return of young doctors in medicine in Martinique, particularly those specializing in geriatric medicine. If this application appears to be legitimate, it is legitimate for all the territories of France. In fact, the subjects of installation and access to care prevail throughout the national territory. They were identified very early by the Government, which, along with our majority, ended the numerus clausus. On the other hand, ultramarines wishing to return to their home territory may benefit from the public service contract when they wish to settle in subdenses.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u550	Article 6 aims to extend, on an experimental basis, the eligibility of free employment to publics who have come from an integration route in the territory of Martinique, as well as to strengthen the arrangements which exist within Martinique's regiment of adapted military service (RSMA) in its role in terms of apprenticeship and service to seniors. As you know, Martinique is one of the territories whose free employment scheme has been extended to all priority neighbourhoods since April 1, 2019. With regard to the accompaniment of dependency by the RSMA, it seems that not all places are provided, and we are developing in parallel new civic services, some of which can usefully be deployed to support autonomy.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u551	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Therefore, and in order to allow for the continuity of the work started and the commitments made, the working Republic Group will not be able to support this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u552	Mr Brahim Hammouche has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u553	The motion for a resolution before us today addresses the extremely important issue of the ageing of the population. As we know, and many reports and analyses attest to this, the French are living longer and older in all our metropolitan and overseas regions. This resolution is concerned with this phenomenon in the territory of Martinique, which has real peculiarities.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u554	Indeed, as the rapporteur explains, Martinique was in 2000 the youngest department in France and should, by 2050, become the oldest in our Republic because of the so-called longevity effect. The demographic shift that is emerging requires real anticipation and public awareness. In this respect, we agree with the rapporteur. Older people in the West Indies, and especially in Martinique, are more affected by financial insecurity, but also by family isolation, but also by medical isolation – all factors of hasty ageing.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u555	It is in the light of these findings and following the submission of the Libault report in 2019 that this motion for a resolution was drafted and tabled on the Bureau of the Assembly in March 2020. This text and the suggestions it makes are part of a calendar context and logic that should have led us to debate and legislate on a law on old age and autonomy. Unfortunately, we will not have the opportunity to undertake this task in the course of this legislature, because of the agenda constraints and the Government's arbitrations. Nevertheless, despite all the obstacles encountered, many projects have been opened and a number of important measures have already been taken. They thus partially respond to a number of initiatives proposed in the articles of this resolution. We would also like to take this opportunity to welcome the determined action of Minister Brigitte Bourguignon, who has been working within her ministry for the past two years to advance public policy of autonomy – albeit slowly, but with notable results.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u556	Thus, through various legislative vehicles, the solutions proposed here were submitted to the parliamentary debate and voted on. I am thinking in particular of the Ségur de la santé, which has strengthened the resources devoted to hospital investment in the overseas countries to the tune of 20 million euros for the year 2021 alone. In addition, funding for engineering costs for EHPADs and medical-social institutions is also provided.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u557	The creation of the fifth branch in the summer of 2020 and its financial structure around the CNSA, according to article 33 of the PLFSS for 2021, have made it possible to clarify the horizon for taking over the loss of autonomy. The overseas sector will not be neglected, on the contrary, since it will benefit from specific allocations linked precisely to the statement made in the explanatory memorandum to this motion for a resolution. The promise of universal social protection made by this Segur also concerns overseas countries.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u558	The PLFSS for 2022, which was voted in final reading last Monday in this House, devotes new funding to autonomy, particularly for home care. The creation of the floor tariff at 22 euros per hour of intervention of home help services via the personalized autonomy allowance will be fully effective in Martinique as elsewhere, as will the additional quality allocation, added by way of amendment currently under discussion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u559	In addition, Bill 3DS, which will begin consideration next week in a public session, contains a measure to promote the development of intermediate habitat solutions in the overseas environment, adapted to the situation of people who are losing their autonomy. These halfway residences between individual housing and EHPAD were an important recommendation in the Libault report. Our residential approach will not be an alternative low cost: it will be sustainable and sustainable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u560	Finally, on the question of free jobs referred to in the text, it seems to us to be consistent to wait until the end of the current experiment, which is to be completed next year, before considering its generalization.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u561	[[Applause on the benches of the Dem group]] As you will have understood, ladies and gentlemen, this motion for a resolution has in some way suffered premature ageing as a result of the many advances mentioned above. The Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats will therefore not vote for it, considering that the points it raises are already being or are being deployed. We will not support the lapse of this bill and we will remain committed to the stoic wisdom of Cicero: old age is noble, when it defends itself, keeps its rights, sells itself to no one, and until the last breath dominates its own.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u562	Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u563	First and foremost, we wish to express our full support and fraternity to our fellow citizens of Martinique and Guadeloupe, who have been experiencing difficulties for the last two weeks. We very much hope that calm will return with genuine agreed solutions among stakeholders. I naturally associate myself with my speech, Josette Manin and Hélène Vainqueur-Christophe, who were held in the riding for the reasons we know.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u564	As has just been recalled on several occasions, Martinique, which was one of the youngest departments in France twenty years ago, is today, together with Guadeloupe, one of the French territories where the proportion of elderly people is highest. Demographers are unanimous: in thirty years, one in two people will be 60 years of age and over, making Martinique the oldest territory in the French archipelago. According to INSEE, as of 1 January 2014, Martinique had 12,500 fewer inhabitants than in 2009, with 3,83,910 inhabitants, an average annual decrease of 0.6%.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u565	Various reasons explain this problem, and first of all the demographic transition that the territory has been experiencing for twenty years. Although there are difficulties in purchasing power and the care system, people live longer than their elders: on average 80 years for men and 84 years for women. Added to this is the drop in the number of births, as Martinique women have fewer children than their parents: there are two births per woman, compared to six 50 years ago.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u566	Another explanation, historically unfortunate, concerns the sending to the Hexagon of young people under 35 years of age by the office for the development of migration in the overseas departments for twenty years, since the 1960s. They are as many young people who have re-established their lives in Hexagon rather than Martinique. Young ultramarine officials transferred to Hexagon are struggling to return to their home territory, although they must be able to do so without difficulty because of their material and moral interests. In this regard, we note the issue of elder care when families remain in Hexagon and the issue of the many cases of mutations of the Martiniquia people who do not find a favourable outcome on the part of the administrations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u567	Finally, Martinique faces a flight of young talents. Many of them settled permanently in Hexagon to pursue an activity after their higher education in order to have a better chance of social promotion, which led to a migration deficit and a change in the structure of the population. What about the difficulties of young people returning to their territory, when you see their difficulties in getting recruited or getting paid properly when they return to the country?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u568	Moreover, the economic difficulties imposed by the ageing of the population are set out in the figures set out in the motion for a resolution. One in four retirees receive the minimum old age; One in three retirees over 65 years of age lives alone and potentially isolated; More than half of the pensioners in Martinique live below the poverty line, which is 615 euros in Martinique, compared with 997 euros in France. This situation is likely to worsen in the coming years with the increase in the number of older people, only companies in the Silver economy taking advantage.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u569	Madam Minister Delegate, here are a few proposals to combat demographic decline and its effects on Martinique: to facilitate the return of young Antillois, with great vigilance on the problems of discrimination in hiring and a real consideration of the ICMMs of civil servants; providing family benefits from the first child, time to regulate demographic issues; have better statistical control of public policies to improve the levers to combat population decline, the most recent figures often going back six years; better accompany our Martinic elders after their retirement; Expanding the expertise and capacity of the Overseas Agency for Mobility (LADOM) to support voluntary returns of young ultramarines; Finally, go to the roads of repair on such matters as chlordecone pollution or the fight against expensive life and the revitalisation of the territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u570	[[Applause on a few benches of the GDR group]] As you have understood, the Socialist and Related Group will vote for this motion for a resolution by our colleague Manuela Kéclard-Mondésir, who invites the Government to allow Martinique to take into account and recognize the wealth of its elders, but also to regain its vitality and youth for the future.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u571	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u572	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Continuation of the discussion of the motion for a resolution on the establishment of an exceptional plan to accompany the phenomenon of accelerated ageing in Martinique; Discussion of the bill to reduce the inequalities in access to higher education generated by Parcoursup; Discussion of the motion for a resolution to combat the trivialisation of hate speech in the public debate; Discussion of the proposed law on various social justice measures; Discussion of the proposal for a European resolution on the financing of the ecological transition; Discussion of the draft law guaranteeing the free choice of municipalities in the management of water and sanitation skills; Discussion of the proposal for an organic law for the protection of common goods; Discussion of the proposed law creating a legal status for common goods.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1081.u573	The meeting is adjourned.
