ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u1	The next item is the debate on the report of the Joint Joint Committee on the draft law on amending finance for 2021 (No. 4313).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u2	Mr Laurent Saint-Martin, rapporteur of the Joint Joint Committee, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u3	I am pleased to address you this morning following the success of the Joint Joint Committee (JC) responsible for preparing a joint text on the draft amending finance bill (PLFR) for 2021. First of all, I would like to welcome the constructive attitude of my colleague Jean-François Husson, the general rapporteur of the Senate's budget, who made it possible to reach this agreement. The spirit of openness of the Chairs of the Finance Committees of the two Assemblies, Claude Raynal and Éric Woerth, has also contributed and I thank them for this. The compromise text adopted by the CMP, of course, includes the initial provisions of the text that the Government had submitted to us. They are marked by the urgency and the need to accompany our compatriots, local authorities and businesses in the coming months. First of all, of course, it is a matter of recharging the emergency arrangements, the partial activity and the solidarity fund, which we are extending, to an amount of EUR 10 billion. In addition, for just over EUR 4 billion, reimbursement – if I can use this term – is added to the long-term partial activity scheme of the funds used for the emergency. Justice is therefore done to the EUR 100 billion of the recovery plan, now upgraded. I thank the Government for its commitment on this point. I do not go back in detail to the appropriations for emergency accommodation, scholarship students or farmers affected by the freeze: they must help meet the needs of our fellow citizens in the coming weeks and months. The CMP has preserved the pledge of these new spending on cancellations of appropriations put in a precautionary reserve, which allows us not to jeopardise the effectiveness of the corresponding policies – it was very important. It is also very important to have preserved EUR 1.5 billion of appropriations for accidental and unforeseen expenditure (DDAI). I share some questions about this measure that Parliament authorizes, but the uncertainty that remains about the health situation fully justifies this Government proposal. In addition, the CMP has planned to include an ad hoc mechanism for better informing Parliament. Of course, the other measures originally planned remain in the text, as is the important relaxation of the carry back. With regard to the renewal of the exceptional purchasing power premium – the "Macron bonus" – we finally propose, after discussing it with the Senate, to open its increase to all companies with less than fifty employees. This provision must be made known to ensure that premiums are paid and disbursed by the end of the year. Instead, the National Assembly had made the incentive to participate its priority, by adopting a measure to that effect, nevertheless Jean-François Husson and I agreed that the most important thing was that this premium should be paid in all companies. I come to some enrichments of the text, which are the result of parliamentary work and which the CMP has retained. First, we finally chose to postpone to 1 January 2023 the abolition of the reduced rate of the TICEP – domestic consumption tax on energy products – in favour of non-road uses of diesel fuel, in accordance with the Government's initial proposal. This brown niche – that is the appropriate term – is likely to be extinguished, but we cannot ignore the economic situation in this sector for more than a year. The National Assembly had proposed to fix the abolition of this reduced rate at the very beginning of the next legislature, but without really proposing legislative and policy tools to accompany and adjust. That is why the date of 1 January 2023 has been retained. The CMP also validated the extension in 2022 of the rate increased to 25% of the reduction of the IR-SME – income tax for small and medium-sized enterprises – adopted here at my first reading initiative, by supplementing it with a similar provision adopted by the Senate in favour of solidary land. I also welcome the integration of the mobility payment provided by Île-de-France Mobilitys (IDFM) into the safety net of local authorities' resources by 2021. In addition, at the initiative of the Senate, specific resources relating to certain overseas communities and the community of Corsica will also be guaranteed. There would be some other progress, sometimes modest, but still effective, such as the extension of the tax system to take account of the abandonment of rents, or the possibility for municipalities to reduce the tax on discotheques. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] In the end, the compromise that we are submitting to you largely takes into account the important work done by each parliamentary chamber, with the utmost respect for the spirit of the text submitted by the Government. So, as was the case at first reading, I invite you to pass the bill by a large majority.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u4	The Secretary of State for the Social Economy, who is responsible for the social economy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u5	The text we are debating today illustrates the willingness of the Government and parliamentarians to continue to support all economic actors until the end of the health crisis and to strongly support the resumption of growth. I think we can all be proud of that. Before I delve into the details of the proposals adopted by the Joint Joint Committee, I would like to recall the multiple ambitions of this PLFR for the French economy. It has five specific objectives: to accompany the exit from the crisis and the resumption of activity; complement the support already provided to the various actors, in particular local and regional authorities; facilitate the deployment of the recovery plan; to implement the priorities identified by the President of the Republic and the Government; initiate the return to a more sustainable public expenditure. The primary responsibility of this fiscal collective is therefore to finance the gradual exit of emergency measures deployed to support the economy since the beginning of the crisis linked to the covid-19. It is in this spirit that we propose that you should allocate EUR 15.5 billion to extend the support arrangements which are now well known to the French and which the rapporteur has recalled. To this end, we propose to spend EUR 4 billion on contribution exemptions and payment aid, EUR 3.4 billion on the solidarity fund and EUR 6.4 billion on partial activity, particularly long-term activity. In addition, in order to extend assistance to private sectors, the Emergency Plan for the Health Crisis mission is abounded with an additional €150 million to finance measures related to the cultural sector. Secondly, the PLFR proposes a series of new measures aimed at better accompanying French and companies until the chapter of the crisis is finally closed. With your support, we thus extend the deadline for companies to apply for a State-guaranteed loan (GLP) until December 31, 2021. In addition, the text provides for the renewal for a third consecutive year of the Macron purchasing power premium, which allows companies to pay a premium exempt from taxes and social contributions of up to EUR 1000. This ceiling is increased to EUR 2000 for companies with fewer than 50 employees, those with an interest agreement, and those who have formally undertaken revalorisation actions for second-line workers. As the rapporteur has said, we must make these provisions known. The premium can be paid until the beginning of 2022 and its defiscalisation will be retroactive, so that the premiums paid from June onwards fall within the scope of the scheme. Finally, it should be pointed out that, in order for this measure to be fully efficient, it must remain exceptional. In order to strengthen our support for businesses, we also want to temporarily relax the possibility of carrying back the tax deficits of companies – the carrier back – by completely displacing this system. In addition, the text of the CMP sets 1 January 2023 as the entry into force of the increase in domestic consumption tax rates on non-road diesel. It should have taken place on 1 July, but it would have put the companies concerned in great difficulty, while the consequences of the health crisis are still being felt. It seemed important to me to take this into account. As regards aid and tax arrangements for enterprises, the text of the CMP incorporates the extension of the increased rate of income tax reduction for subscription to the capital of SMEs. This is the IR-SME system that you know well and which aims to direct savings, especially as a precautionary measure, towards equity investments in our SMEs and ETIs – middle-sized companies – especially the youngest of them. The same is true for social welfare companies (ESUS), like solidarity land. As Secretary of State in charge of the social economy, solidarity and responsibility, I want to forcefully recall – even if I know you are aware of this – their commitment and resilience during the crisis. The second responsibility of this collective budget is to extend support to local and regional authorities through new measures that are expected and ambitious. We have therefore proposed that €203 million be allocated to compensate for financial losses due to equipment managed under management, which has so far been unable to receive assistance on essentially legal matters. You have extended this arrangement to facilities managed in a delegated manner, and the Senate has extended it to departmental authorities of the same type. This measure will complete the massive system of support for local and regional authorities established since the beginning of the crisis. Moreover, at first reading, the National Assembly included in the safety net revenue from the municipal block for 2021 the compensation of the decrease in the revenue from the mobility payment for Île-de-France Mobilitys – a measure already planned for the other authorities organising mobility (AOM). As for the Senate, in 2021 it extended the safety net relating to the overseas regions and communities and the safety net relating to the territorial community of Corsica. The PLFR also strengthens the powers given to local elected officials to support economic actors in their territory. In 2021, we extended the opportunity offered last year to the communal block to introduce, as an exception, a local tax rebate on outdoor advertising and allow communities that wish to do so to apply a rebate to owners who granted a total rent rebate to nightclubs in 2020. Finally, in CMP, you have requested an additional €50 million to supplement the funding of the mobility organising authorities. Thus, this PLFR extends the massive support given to local and regional authorities during the crisis, which was recently stressed by MP Jean-Noël Barrot in his excellent report to the Prime Minister. The third ambition of this PLFR is clear: to facilitate the operational deployment of the recovery plan in the economy in order to create the conditions for recovery as soon as possible. By the end of June, more than a third of the recovery plan had already committed, amounting to about EUR 40 billion. It is more than half of our target for the whole of 2021, which we had set, you remember, at 70 of the 100 billion euros of the France Recovery Plan. In order to encourage the rapid use of the stimulus plan, in this PLFR we are redeploying within the envelope devoted to it and which you had passed during the consideration of the 2021 finance bill. We want to reallocate EUR 600 million to finance the "industry of the future" schemes, which have been very successful since the launch of the recovery plan in September 2020 and through which 8500 projects have been financed. The PLFR also provides for regulatory measures to allow for the reabundance of the most sought-after devices in industrial, digitisation and agricultural matters. In a word, the PLFR intends to go further in what has been recognised as the most useful and adapted by the players in the recovery. Fourthly, the last part of the new measures contained in the PLFR reflects the priorities identified by the President of the Republic and the Government. The text includes a series of strong measures to ensure that the exit from the crisis is not a escape – even if it would be beautiful – but rather a lasting and collective impetus. In this connection, I would like to point out that the PLFR foresees the continuation of the winter emergency accommodation plan for 700 million euros for the whole summer period, without any deterioration of the public deficit. This effort allows 200000 places of accommodation to be left open until the end of March 2022, two years after the start of the health crisis. In order to ensure that the end of the crisis marks the return of activity for all, the text enters 100 million euros to finance the pass'sport announced by the President of the Republic, 57 million euros for the renewal of several provisions concerning QPV – the priority neighbourhoods of the city's policy – and 150 million euros for the higher education scholarships, which were used more widely in the context of the health crisis, which severely affected the students. Those measures were aimed at young people, who had suffered from the crisis and for whom the Government had reaffirmed its mobilization. Again, it seemed important to us to be at the meeting of our commitments. The Government also intends to finance EUR 350 million of the first sectoral aid paid to farmers after the particularly difficult period they have experienced. These funds will be dedicated in particular to the compensation of losses related to the freezing episodes of early April and will be deployed as part of the EUR 1 billion plan announced by the Prime Minister. Furthermore, your chamber has allowed the adoption of a series of amendments allowing operators heavily affected by the April 2020 freeze episodes to mobilise savings under the contingency scheme opened last year by LFR 2 under precautionary savings conditions. Finally, EUR 82 million will help New Caledonia to cope with the difficulties it has experienced and which the crisis has, of course, amplified. Finally, and fifthly, I recall that even if the "whatever it costs" allows us to reconnect with the activity, and quickly – it was its objective – it is not without consequences. Only the proper management of our public finances has allowed us to re-establish room for manoeuvre in order to continue to cope with the crisis. That is why, in order to restore balance, we want to keep the line of budgetary seriousness, and I have no doubt that everyone on these benches shares this objective. To meet our public finance challenge, we need to adopt a strategy with clear principles: first, to strengthen our growth in order to regain our pre-crisis level of wealth; Then, exit emergency devices – gradually, but resolutely. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] This draft amending budget illustrates the Government's willingness to continue to support the economy during the post-crisis period, as well as its determination to demonstrate that sustainability and seriousness are not incompatible with this support. The agreement you have reached proves that we can be satisfied with it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u6	Mr Eric Woerth, Vice-Chairman of the Joint Committee, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u7	As the crisis continues, I am pleased that the House and the Senate have reached agreement on this text, which will bring a little more oxygen to our economy and our local and regional authorities, in particular thanks to the contributions of Parliament. It played its part and amended the text widely. Following the rapporteur, I thank the members of the Joint Joint Committee from the Senate – notably the rapporteur, Jean-François Husson, and the chairman of the committee, Claude Raynal – for their work and for allowing this agreement to be built. This bill, in its final version, provides for an increase of approximately €22 billion in the gross expenditure of the State. During the first reading in the House, I had described this first budget collective of the year as between dog and wolf, between urgency and recovery, just before the post-covid. The figures speak for themselves, since of the €20 billion in net expenditure, almost €15 billion is part of the emergency plan mission in response to the health crisis. This is therefore an urgent PLFR and not a stimulus package. With this text, public expenditure amounts to almost 61 per cent of GDP. Yes, you don't dream, it's the numbers! The level of the government deficit, which was expected to be 8.5% under the PLF for 2021, is updated to 9.4% with this budgetary collective. Moreover, we are already beginning to move away from the objectives of the stability programme which we transmitted to the European Commission very shortly ago. While support for the economy must remain the priority, the time for accounts has also arrived – at least it is fast approaching. If we have the opportunity to discuss it at length next week, during the debate on the orientation of public finances, we can observe with serenity only the spending atmosphere that has settled in a more or less insidious way, unfortunately. The payment appropriations cancelled in this text are not in common with those abounded, since the first are less than EUR 2 billion when the increase in appropriations exceeds, I said, 22 billion. The difficulties of arbitrage which await us in the near future will have to lead us to undertake real structural reforms in order to control the public expenditure allowed in particular by this text. Several improvements in the text can be welcomed, to which oppositions, in particular the members of the group, are welcome. The Republicans took all their part: the taking into account of the loss of mobility payment revenue for Île-de-France Mobilitys in 2021, the improvement of the guarantee scheme for the resources of the municipal block for the year 2021, the extension of the increase in the deduction of the income tax on investments made directly in SMEs, known as IR-SMEs. For its part, the Senate has also significantly improved the text on several points, with, for example, the abolition for companies with fewer than fifty employees of the conditions for increasing the amount of the exceptional purchasing power premium, known as the Macron premium, which is exempt from IR and social contributions from EUR 1000 to EUR 2000; the postponement from 1 July 2022 to 1 January 2023 of the abolition of the TICEP reduced tariff for non-road diesel, which will pose many problems, you can be sure of that; budget increases for investment by mobility authorities for EUR 50 million and for the forest for EUR 10 million; exemption from aid for the resumption of trade funds; the optional local tax reduction on external advertising; the extension of the safety net for certain revenue from the overseas communities and Corsica. Finally, while the present text provides for 1.5 billion appropriations for the appropriation for accidental and unpredictable expenditure, in accordance with what had been voted by the Assembly, a mechanism for informing the Finance Committees is now foreseen, above all, for disbursements of more than EUR 100 million; It's a good thing. As in the negotiations before the second round of an election, during a CMP, each one limits its criticisms and avoids making new proposals – until it does not. However, I note that problems raised in previous debates, which have even been the subject of additional articles in the Senate, have not yet been answered and that certain measures that seem necessary in the current context are still being denied. This is particularly the case with the issue of offsetting the cost of the postal universal service mission, a deficit of EUR 1.3 billion per year, while the problem is structural. This is also the case with the proposal to introduce, as a transitional measure, accelerated depreciation mechanisms for certain business investments, which are often advanced on these banks. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Mrs Zivka Park and the rapporteur also applaud]] We will vote, with the text resulting from the work of the CMP, on a new urgent budget collective. This exceptional approach has all its raison d'être and we need these credits. However, this does not prevent us from questioning: how far can we go without the cost of measures exceeding the collective benefit that our economy and society can derive from it? This is a dizzying question that the Government will soon have an obligation to respond clearly.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u8	In the general debate, the floor is in Mrs Zivka Park.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u9	This draft amending budget will enable employees and businesses to be supported during the post-crisis period. It introduces measures to support the purchasing power of households and the most precarious. Finally, it provides funding for the complementary needs that we have identified. With this first amending finance bill for 2021, we are taking our responsibilities again, to continue to deal with the health crisis, through business support measures, in a context of an uncertain exit from crisis, with the reloading of emergency devices. The PLFR finances the phasing out of emergency aid, with the objective of encouraging the resumption of activity and maintaining state support for companies heavily affected by the crisis of the Covid-19. A €3.6 billion allocation is foreseen for the Solidarity Fund, of which €150 million will support the cultural sector, dear to our colleague Dominique David. The long-term partial-activity facility is rising in power during the post-crisis period, thanks to a reload of €6.4 billion. We have supported this proposal by the Government, because many of us in the territories are being called upon by companies whose activities are affected for a long time and for which the restart is only gradual – this is the case, in particular, in the Roissy sector, as my colleague François Pupponi here knows. Some companies tell us about their difficulties in restarting; Others claim to be ready, but find it difficult to recruit, which becomes a real problem. With these new credits, we offer a concrete solution to these companies and a response to the concerns of employees in the hotel, catering, event and transport sectors. The text provides for an amount of EUR 4 billion for exemptions from social contributions and EUR 1.5 billion for accidental and unpredictable expenditure, in order to feed a precautionary reserve and to deal with a possible deterioration of the epidemic situation, while the new variants raise concerns. We also voted for measures to support local and regional authorities and speeded up the implementation of the recovery plan. The PLFR provides for redeployments of funds targeted at the Recovery Plan mission, in order to preserve the potential for growth during the end of the health crisis. These appropriations will finance the most efficient schemes, including MaPrimeRénov' and measures to support industry, the ecological transition or agriculture. Madam Secretary of State, I regret that the significant reduction in the air noise tax has not been compensated, even though I understand the explanations given to us. The delay in processing the soundproofing files of Roissy's residents is already significant and I am afraid that it will get worse in the coming months. This PLFR will also support the most vulnerable sectors and audiences, through support for the sports, culture and agriculture sectors, youth-friendly measures and the maintenance of 200,000 emergency accommodation places. Support measures for the agricultural sector, amounting to €350 million, will help to deal with recent climatic hazards, including frost episodes. The creation of the pass'sport, for young people from modest families and people with disabilities, will be financed to the tune of EUR 100 million. The renewal in 2021 of the summer quarters scheme, which is dear to me, as well as the recruitment of 300 specialised educators and the training of 300 additional mediators, are planned for an amount of 57 million euros. We will each, in our territories, be able to see the decline and the work done by the cities and associations. The text also provides for the financing until the end of 2021 of grants on social criteria for an amount of EUR 150 million. Several contributions from the Senate have also been retained in this text. I will not come back to each of them, since everything has been said about them. However, three important points need to be highlighted: the possibility for all enterprises with less than 50 employees to pay an exceptional purchasing power premium, increased to EUR 2000 without conditions; the postponement for 18 months, until 1 January 2023, of the alignment of the TICEP tariff for non-road diesel with that applied to road diesel, in order to limit the socio-economic effects for the sectors concerned; the exemption from income tax for the increase of the interns' childcare allowance, in particular for those who were present during the first health crisis. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] We can only welcome the agreement reached in the Joint Joint Committee with the Senate: not only have all the contributions of the National Assembly been retained, but the text has also been enriched with new provisions. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for your work this year, which has not been easy.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u10	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u11	I would also like to welcome the agreement reached in the Joint Joint Committee, which allows us this morning to vote definitively on the PLFR for 2021. Not only does this agreement enable the long-awaited text to be adopted as soon as possible, which provides new funding for recharging emergency aid for firms in difficulty, but it also makes it possible to significantly improve the content of the text, thanks to the important contributions of the Senate, often taking up proposals put forward in vain by the Republicans at first reading. In particular, I welcome the postponement to 1 January 2023 of the end of the tax advantage on non-road diesel, in order to give already well-tested sectors more time to find alternative solutions. The majority group The Republic on the move wanted to shorten this deadline by 18 months and reduce the accompanying measures towards the exit of non-road diesel oil, which was totally inadequate and could condemn many construction and public works companies (BTP). It would have hampered the economic recovery that we want as much as possible if the construction sector were to be criminalised in the context of a severe shortage of raw materials and recruitment difficulties. On the other hand, I am pleased that we have won against the majority and the Government with regard to the exemption of the Macron premium for companies with less than fifty employees, without any condition of agreement of interest. It was a measure of common sense and simplification, which we have been defending for a long time – we supported it in particular at first reading. These advances allow us to vote decisively on this urgent PLFR. Members of the Republican Group have always assumed their responsibilities when the situation so requires. We have voted on each of the emergency PLFRs and put forward many proposals to support companies in difficulty as firmly as possible, as long as this terrible crisis persists. It is necessary to continue until the end of the summer the policy of solidarity with our cafes, restaurants, hotels, discotheques, cinemas, theatres and tourism actors. However, the aid will have to be reduced as the recovery continues. These emergency measures are not intended to be sustainable; Unless we recover from the epidemic, we will have to get out of the "no matter what" by the end of the year. If we share the spirit of the text, we nevertheless have many reservations. First, we regret that the vaccination campaign, too slow and chaotic, forces us to continue to vote for emergency measures, while the health situation returns to normal. Only 39 per cent of major French citizens received a first dose of vaccine, compared with 63 per cent in Great Britain and 46 per cent in Spain and Germany. We are therefore obliged to put back EUR 15 billion with this new PLFR, which is very much devoted to emergency measures rather than to the revival of the economy. Our second reservation concerns the very worrying budgetary drift towards increasingly uncontrolled public expenditure. We support emergency spending, but the crisis must not lead the Government to give up its control of public accounts permanently. This is exactly the slope we are on; Our Chairman of the Committee on Finance rightly denounces him. Indeed, the Court of Auditors regrets that, of the additional €66 billion paid in 2021, 41 billion, or almost two thirds, finance ordinary expenditure, unrelated to the crisis. Unfortunately, our public finances are already much worse off than those of our neighbours, making us more vulnerable. The fault lies in a lack of political courage on the part of your Government, despite the beginning of a quinquennium characterized by three years of growth. Madam Secretary of State, we are far from the serious budget you mentioned. France could now have the largest deficit in the euro area by 2024. An additional $9 billion would have to be saved each year to stabilize the debt in 2027. The situation was therefore alarming, as the Court of Auditors, which called on the Government to be very vigilant, since the question of the sustainability of public debt arose more than ever. Contrary to what the Government claims, a return to growth will not be enough to restore public accounts. It will have to be accompanied by far-reaching reforms and courageous decisions, including the early postponement of the retirement age.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u12	It's obvious.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u13	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] The Government is now assuming its responsibilities with courage. Members of Parliament The Republicans, who are once again pleased with the improvements made by the Senate, will take on theirs by voting this PLFR.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u14	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u15	Mr Jean-Paul Mattei has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u16	[[The Secretary of State acquiesce]] First of all, I welcome the spirit of concord and responsibility that prevailed at the CMP. Members of Parliament and senators were able to enrich the text – you will agree, Madam Secretary of State. We therefore have to take a final decision on this first amending finance bill of the year 2021. Last year, we adopted four PLFRs, in a dramatic health context, which brought the world economy to a halt and tainted the planet. Fortunately, thanks to human genius, we have found in record time effective vaccines, which have come to give us hope, without making us forget all the families bereaved by this terrible epidemic, which is far from over, but that only the widespread vaccination will make it possible to stop. I also stress the essential role played by caregivers; Whatever their status, they have shown incredible commitment, which makes us admire. The government departments, local authorities and officials of all public offices responded. I also greet all teaching staff and their accompanying teams; They have ensured, by constantly adapting themselves, the public school and university education service, to prevent our young people from dropping out. The challenges were immense, one can say that they were met: let everyone be thanked. The measures taken to save our economy have worked perfectly. Several factors give us hope: the unprecedented European advances, the implementation of a sustainable support of the territories with tailor-made policies, as well as the confirmation that the policies we have been pursuing for the past four years are effective – for the second year in a row, France is recognised as the most attractive country in Europe and growth is there. However, we cannot deny that the crisis has left important stigmatizations on society and on our productive apparatus. This PLFR aims to support the recovery, in order to strengthen it and make it more sustainable. It provides an additional 3 billion to help companies in the most affected sectors re-employ; the possibility of paying the Macron premium in 2021, in particular to employees, with a necessary and welcome relaxation for companies with less than fifty employees; 700 million for emergency accommodation; EUR 350 million in direct aid to farmers, which has been heavily affected in recent months by various disasters. This text also seeks to introduce strong and effective fiscal measures, which my colleagues in the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats and I have been defending for more than a year, in particular the deflation of the carry back or carry back. The work we have done in this House has enriched the text, particularly at the initiative of the Members of our group. It was necessary to support farmers who had suffered the consequences of the health crisis, in particular because of the closure of places of conviviality, but also because of the freezing episode of extreme gravity in the spring. In some territories, it has destroyed the hopes for a good harvest in arboriculture and viticulture. As a result, we wanted to extend the possibility of using the hazard endowment savings (ADP) under the simpler Precautionary Savings (PED) conditions. At the invitation of the Members of our group, the House has also extended the scheme for the abandonment of rent claims, which we proposed to you last year to encourage lenders to help tenants, so that they have cash to finance the recovery. However, we regret that other improvements that we have proposed to you have not been accepted, in particular those aimed at supporting the adaptation of companies to the new economic situation, in particular by neutralising the tax consequences of a real change in activity. I cannot finish my speech without saying a word about public debt. The very sharp rise in public expenditure must lead us to be even more concerned about its monitoring and evaluation. The debt that we owe to the crisis was essential to preserve businesses and employees, but this debt will be repaid in one way or another. The best way to do this is to get back on the path of growth and think about other avenues, without increasing the overall tax burden, but perhaps by distributing it more accurately. We also have hopes for the texts that you will be presenting in the coming weeks, Mr rapporteur and Mr Vice-President. They should modernise the framework for public finance governance by making it more readable. Similarly, the proposal for a law on social security financing laws, of which Mr. Thomas Mesnier will be the rapporteur, will enable Parliament to better control social finances and will promote the modernization of the procedure for the presentation and adoption of social security financing laws. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem, LaREM and Agir ens groups]] In the meantime, the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats Group will vote without hesitation on this amending budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u17	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u18	The main purpose of this text is to supplement the appropriations of the contingency plan, as was said during the first reading examination and repeated by several of you. It provides a total of 14 billion. $4 billion corresponds to contribution relief. 3.6 billion will be spent on the solidarity fund. 2.2 billion for partial activity and emergency aid to employers. In addition, aid is provided to the most disadvantaged. As the Court of Auditors has pointed out, this amending budget is the result of erratic programming. Of course, the exercise is difficult in the current times, but the Government decided at the end of 2020 to postpone €28.8 billion from the contingency plan in 2021 – the amounts are so dizzying that they deserve to be mentioned. If we want to verify the sincerity of this amending budget, we can see that the EUR 15 billion you are announcing, we must add together all the carry-overs of EUR 44 billion, a total of EUR 59 billion – I am speaking under the control of the rapporteur of the CMP. Members of the Socialist and Related Group voted for this text at first reading and will vote for the text of the CMP. It is not so much what it contains that bothers us as what it does not contain. Thus, the measures announced by the Government in recent months are not translated.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u19	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u20	You will defer funding to the Bill for 2022, which means that it cannot come into force until January 1, 2022, one year after the Government has announced it. Politically, that is not entirely sincere; Economically, it's quite inefficient. Among the measures promised that will not be applied until 2022 are the premium for teachers, the plan Avenir montagnes, the 1 billion for housing, the "Psych check" and the young guarantee, to the evolution of which the President is thinking – the list is long. In an emblematic way, the €2 million needed to finance the 3919, the emergency number dedicated to domestic violence, is missing.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u21	Oh!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u22	... so that the teams are large enough to answer all calls and prevent 40% of them from remaining in vain. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about EUR 2 million! The budget of this PLFR amounts to 15 plus 44 billion euros, or almost 60 billion, and you have not found the way to finance the 2 million missing for the 3919 – do the division and see the ratio!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u23	That's politics!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u24	This is unacceptable. Elisabeth Moreno, Deputy Minister for Equality between Women and Men, has promised this sum,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u25	Promises, promises...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u26	...but it does not appear anywhere in the PLFR. In addition, I would have liked this text to have taken into account the issues that we raised during the Spring of the Evaluation only three weeks ago. To ignore them is to say that it is of no use. During this event, the Chairman of the Committee on Finance asked what will become of the carry-overs of contributions. As he pointed out in committee, the amounts are large, but you do not give any answer. With regard to the State Equity Agency, you have planned EUR 4.1 billion to recapitalise SNCF, but they can only be paid out from 2022 and 2023; programme 358 Exceptional strengthening of the state's financial participations in the context of the health crisis, supposed to recapitalise the companies affected by the crisis, is barely changed, but you create the programme 367 Financing of the heritage operations envisaged in 2021 on the special trust account "State financial participations" and you ask Parliament to provide it with 2 billion euros in order to finance the mission Economy, about which you do not provide any details. Understand that all of this bothers us. [[Applause on the SOC and GDR benches]] Finally, if I recognise that this is an emergency PLFR, it cannot exclude recovery. On this point, the European Commission's forecasts are very clear: our GDP is expected to return to its level at the end of 2022, even slightly higher than at the end of 2019, with an increase of 1.2%, when Germany increases by 2.5%. So we are one of the countries that will be most late in 2022, compared to 2019. The question should have been asked.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u27	Mrs Lise Magnier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u28	I, in turn, welcome the agreement reached by the Joint Joint Committee. It is a sign of a work carried out in good intelligence between the two chambers of Parliament, since the beginning of the health crisis. It leads to a balanced text, which reflects the main advances of both the National Assembly and the Senate. This amending finance bill is thus a good example of co-construction of the law. The evolution of the mechanism of the exceptional purchasing power premium, known as the PEPA premium, is a good illustration of this. Indeed, if the increase of its ceiling to 2000 euros was conditioned in the initial version of the draft law, the scope of the beneficiary companies was first expanded by the National Assembly and then, in a second stage, by the Senate, to a simple and clear wording. We welcome the increase in the ceiling to EUR 2000 for enterprises with fewer than 50 employees. Other reasons for satisfaction include the postponement to January 1, 2023 of the removal of the tax advantage on non-road diesel – GNR – a strong demand from the BTP sector, supposed to be an engine of economic recovery but facing major difficulties in the supply of raw materials. This postponement will enable the sector to anticipate the end of this tax advantage and to regain financial strength to absorb such a tax change, which we welcome. As at first reading, we welcome the various measures in this bill, which maintain support for priority policies, communities and businesses: extension of access to EMPs until the end of the year; compensation for the losses of the municipal block authorities; creation of a transition fund for enterprises; extension of aid for the payment of social contributions to employers and self-employed persons; an additional EUR 700 million for emergency accommodation; release of a first €350 million envelope for the agricultural sector, in order to deal with the hazards it has experienced this year. Finally, this PLFR will allow aid to be phased out by the end of the summer, if the health situation does not impose new restrictions. As a result, 15.5 billion euros of new appropriations will abound the well-known emergency mechanisms: the solidarity fund, partial unemployment and the exemption from contributions. Successful exit of aid is an obligation to allow firm recovery in our territories. This will have to be done gradually, giving visibility to the actors, as the Government has been doing for several months. In this regard, I stress the need to take into account the specificities of situations and territories, with emphasis on the ultramarine territories, which must be given an appropriate framework because of their particularities. [[Applause on the benches of the group Acter ens and on a few benches of the Dem group]] Thus, the "whatever it costs" will be phased out. The new appropriations are still in billions of euros, as they have been for more than a year, so much so that we would almost lose the meaning of the figures. This situation cannot continue: the next task ahead is the restoration of public finances, to be undertaken in a methodical and thought-provoking manner, but it is certain that we will not be able to continue with such a level of public expenditure if we wish to preserve the sustainability of our debt. We will have an opportunity to continue this discussion next week during the public finance policy debate. Nevertheless, the Group of the European People's Party will of course vote in favour of this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u29	Mr Michel Zumkeller has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u30	While the covid-19 pandemic has squandered entire parts of our economy, with many job losses and bankruptcies still to be feared, this PLFR is part of the stimulus that the Government has wanted to drive in the country, while moving towards a timid path of growth. We are currently at the same time in a context of maximum protection of our economic fabric and a return to progressive but sustained normal. We welcome the agreement reached in the Joint Joint Committee. This collective budget is presented as an exit from the health, economic and social emergency regime, marking the end of the "no matter what it costs". We must be clear: it only accentuates it; However, it would have been very difficult to do otherwise without endangering our economy. Throughout this challenging year, the IDU and Independent Group has endeavoured to support our country's businesses by making proposals to the Government, including the removal of the privileges of public creditors and the introduction of a reduced VAT rate of 5.5 per cent for the hotel and catering sectors. In this regard, we strongly support the new social measures and the effort to expand the accompanying arrangements for businesses, which have been particularly difficult in a year. Thus, we welcome the recognition and valorisation of the action of all employees who experienced special working conditions during the crisis, with the maintenance of the exceptional purchasing power premium, increased to 2000 euros, for all enterprises with less than 50 employees, which is an important step forward. In addition, it is necessary and welcome to retain in CMP the income tax exemption from the exceptional increase in intern care allowances received during the first wave of the epidemic. We must mobilize for the healthcare staff, who remain on the front line, not to mention all those who are on the second line. In this regard, we regret the withdrawal in CMP of the article concerning the reclamation of the facial value of the restaurant-titles, a sensible measure that would have increased the purchasing power of many employees, while boosting the catering sector, which was hard tested during the health crisis. Moreover, after many heated debates in recent months on operating losses, we regret the withdrawal of the provision allowing for the establishment of insurance coverage of companies against operating losses, even though an amendment proposing to involve insurance companies up to 10% of their capitalisation reserve had already been rejected during the review of the PLF. These companies are therefore not taking their share in this crisis. At the same time, the renewal of the overseas community safety net set up in 2020 is essential to continue supporting the still fragile sectors. In view of the uncertainty of the current context, we welcome, as our colleagues Philippe Dunoyer and Philippe Gomès have done, the opening of new appropriations, in particular the EUR 82 million in exceptional aid for New Caledonia. Finally, although we continue to support the many aid and support schemes for the vulnerable sectors, we would like to draw your attention to other points. We are going through an exceptional situation, not to say unprecedented. With the end of the crisis, it is now necessary to register in the long term and to think about future generations. Unfortunately, the deficit is expected to grow a little more, exceeding the already significant level of 9% of GDP originally projected. We keep repeating this, we are witnessing a worrying deterioration in our public finances and we are convinced that the issue of debt remains one of the major issues in the coming years, not to say the next few months. However, with the €7.2 billion in appropriations added at the beginning of May, thanks to the decree in advance, and the €15.5 billion released by the amending budget, the cost of emergency measures rose to €43.1 billion by 2021. When the time comes, we will have to protect ourselves in a much more concrete way from this sword of Damocles hanging above our heads. When will a real strategic plan for reducing public spending be presented, including a waste hunt and a reduction in bureaucracy? We must be aware that one of the major challenges remains the search for a balance between a gradual but real exit from the crisis, and an active form of return to balance of accounts, in a very uncertain world. It is now necessary to identify a clear and effective strategy for the recovery of our public finances. While bearing in mind these strong concerns for the future, our group will continue to show responsibility, voting in favour of this PLFR.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u31	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u32	The Joint Joint Committee signalled the end of the part for this new amending budget, the first of the year 2021, certainly, but the fifth of this cycle of emergency measures initiated in 2020. We had asked for a collective budget to take place earlier this year, which would have avoided the pre-decree of more than €7 billion published last May. In broad terms, this amending budget extends certain essential aids for economic actors, which we welcome. There is also some support for the poorest people or local and regional authorities, which we also welcome. However, there is a substantial gap between the announcements and this text, which is an emergency budget: the majority of the appropriations, i.e. EUR 9.8 billion, are devoted to the emergency plan alone. What about the transition? At a time when we hope to emerge from the crisis, the Recovery Plan mission should not be abandoned. Today's investments must fuel tomorrow's growth, accelerate economic and ecological change. With regard to the distribution of the accompanying arrangements to deal with this difficult period, the Freedom and Territory Group once again regrets the obvious imbalance between aid to economic operators and the weakness of the aid earmarked for the most deprived. However, we welcome some progress made at first reading, in particular the aid to the most modest pensioners. It would have been possible to go further if the Government had better conditioned business aid, as illustrated by the example of the carry-back of business deficits, "carry back". The development of this tax system can be understood, but why total deflation? Isn't that just one of the excesses the Government wanted to protect itself from? Our group regrets that the Senate amendment to make this mechanism conditional on the failure to pay dividends was not retained by the CMP. On the other hand, we find, once again, that the costs of some of the mechanisms estimated by the Government were not really realistic. The report that was sent to us in preparation for the public finance policy debate estimates the cost of carrying back at EUR 0.9 billion, compared with EUR 0.4 billion according to this PLFR. The estimate has therefore doubled in less than a month: what will be the end result? More generally, the State would benefit from improving and stepping up controls in the allocation of aid. On the other hand, this text is thought of in a uniform way and lacks the opportunity to adapt to the local specificities that we are constantly calling for. While our group welcomes, of course, the efforts made to accompany the local authorities, dear to our colleague Jeanine Dubie, who are responding to needs expressed by local actors, the territorial dimension remains too absent from this amending budget. It must be said, however, that local elected officials and communities have been very effective in recent months, building on their good knowledge of the fabric and economic actors, whose needs they know. During our discussions at first reading, I have repeatedly drawn the Government's attention to the particularities of Corsica, as well as to the fragility and urgency of its situation in the face of the crisis. Our group can therefore only be disappointed to see that once again aid is not calibrated to best meet local demands, as Corsica, the territory most affected by the pandemic, is too marginalized by France's revival. I will not go back to the successive episodes of the debate on the rise in the rates of the ICTPE applied to the GNR. At the end of the arms passes between the Senate, the Government and the majority on the postponement date, the increase is postponed to 2023: we take note of it. The final point, which we are all concerned about, is that the adoption of this fifth amending budget will lead to an increase in the budget bill. Debt will exceed 118 per cent of GDP. Who will pay in the end? How to pay? Essential and formidable questions, already posed and remaining unanswered. We hope that the Government's growth forecasts can be realized. Members of our group will retain the position expressed at first reading.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u33	Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u34	This sequence could bear the title of Gilles Deleuze's thesis: Difference and repetition – but above all repetition. Indeed, this umpteenth PLFR essentially renews the measures and arrangements already put in place during the pandemic crisis. Repetition, already, with the renewal of the ill-named "Macron bonus", which should rather be called "yellow vests premium", since it was won in high struggle by the latter. Of course, this represents a significant improvement for workers, but its discretionary nature, abandoned to the free choice of the employer, poses a serious problem of fairness; and, above all, the financing of this premium is based on an exemption from contributions which once again weakens our system of social protection, which is already hard sought. The security is weakened, as are the revenue of the State, which you continue to alter, multiplying indirect and unconditioned aid. Repeat again. Among the measures that follow this logic, I will take the example of support for the live show. If the serious crisis in the world of culture and the precarisation of intermittents were not to remain unanswered by the public authorities, the choice of an exceptional increase in a tax credit whose inefficiency is no longer to be demonstrated would favour the mastodons of the sector, when the targeted schemes in favour of small and medium-sized structures should have been given priority: this is still what we must name our cultural industries which will be favored. As for the postponement of the increase in the TICEP on non-road diesel, this is the most aberrant measure. Deferred for the third time by your majority, however, the reduction of this polluting and unnecessary tax niche would have been a first step, for our children and our planet, as well as for our tax revenues. Is it not enough to convince you to read the last report of the High Climate Council, which points to this government's timidness in terms of transport? That this niche is not only anti-ecological but also very expensive for the taxpayer does not bother you? For road diesel alone, the bill will have been nearly 1 billion euros for the taxpayer in 2019. But your resentment is not limited to the logic of the aid provided: it also concerns the victims of your social policy. This time, these victims are migrants aspiring to live and work in our country. In fact, Article 9a, voted in accordance with the rules of the Senate, allows the suspension of the payment of an allowance on the basis of a simple suspicion, even if the latter would lead to a dismissal. In reality, this is really a useless obsession since this provision has existed since 2017. I do not hide from you that we would have liked to see you deploy so much enthusiasm and energy to fight tax fraudsters – who, according to Les Échos of this morning, are breaking records. We would also have preferred that, in the Senate, you retain the few progressive advances rather than this retrograde measure. But one of the repetitions, one of your most notable stubbornnesses is the refusal of any conditionality, a measure passed by the Senate. Excludes the proposal to condition the aid to the exporters of oak wood for the processing of this wood on European soil, not in China. In the same vein, you threw into the oblivion the conditionality of the carry back. We are opposed in substance to this measure, but the clause of non-payment of dividends by the recipient company nevertheless represented a step forward, and even a measure of common sense. I recall that a CAC 40 company like Engie was able to suffer 1.5 billion losses while paying 1.2 billion dividends! The only deletion of this clause is a confession of support for the great oligarchs. But finally here come the holidays, and I will not conclude my remarks with bitter words. In particular, we note the compensation of certain revenues for communities: although insufficient, it is welcome. Compensate for losses in school catering, taxes not levied on ski lifts, stays... This is a timid step forward, but it is still a step forward for our departments, which, however, you are depriving of the possibility of increasing transfer fees for consideration (DMTO). I started by quoting this book: Difference and Repetition. It turns out that it was published in the "Epimetheus" collection. This is the name of Prometheus' brother: in mythology, these two brothers must distribute the earth's resources among the different living species; As a result of an error by Epimetheus, men find themselves destitute, without resources. Well, for us, you're Epimetheus. We will therefore again vote against this PLFR.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u35	Very chic, the conclusion!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u36	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u37	The conclusions of the Joint Joint Committee are in line with the original text. Therefore, our position will not change, and we will oppose this PLFR as at first reading. I'll remind you why. With this fiscal collective, you extend the support of the state and public authorities to economic actors. We have all supported partial unemployment aid, the creation of the solidarity fund or the cancellation of the tax charges and social contributions for the very small enterprises – the most severely affected. These measures were necessary. Now, however, you are abandoning targeted aid to more general aid that will be received by larger companies. The best example of this evolution and probably the main feature of the text: the extension of the carry back. If a total deflation is carried out, as provided for in Article 1, the State will have to repay hundreds of millions of euros of corporate tax to the largest companies. We know in advance who will benefit from this measure: to shareholders, who will receive as if nothing were their usual dividends, paid with liquidity provided by the State. You are fully aware of the problem, and you are in agreement with it, since the amendment voted by the Senate on the initiative of our communist colleagues, which aimed to condition the carry back to the non-distribution of dividends, was rejected at the CMP. Once again, you are refusing a conditionality of public aid which would make it a real tool of public policy. As has always been the case, all our amendments in this area have been rejected, whether the counterpart is expressed in terms of jobs, parity or the environment. In addition to this lack of cross-compliance and these subsidies to large companies, you always reject all solidarity measures as a whole. As you are so worried about the public debt and the deficit, how can you continue to reject our amendments aimed at making the most affluent contributions? You refuse to take up the issues of optimisation and tax fraud. It is essential, however, at a time when a great deal of effort has been demanded of some French people who have suffered particularly from this crisis. This refusal is all the more indecent as you begin to prepare minds for next year's turn of events, with a drastic reduction in public spending, especially social spending. Finally, we will never accommodate the political choice that you have made to abandon to their fate entire sections of the population, to whom you have simply offered two ad hoc aids. Faced with a policy that is not evolving, blocked in a neoliberal software that refuses to put social and environmental issues at its heart, we are renewing our opposition today. You question the rate of abstention in the last elections and rely on the President of the National Assembly to make proposals. As long as your policies protect those who should contribute to the financing of the consequences of this completely new health crisis, as long as the feeling of injustice is so strong, you will not need to look further at the reasons for abstention; E-voting will not change anything. [[Applause on the SOC benches]] Are you aware that the feeling of relegation and abandonment that had fed the roundabouts during the movement of the yellow vests did not in any way recede? Finally get out of your certitudes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u38	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u39	I put the bill as a whole to the vote, given the text of the Joint Joint Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u40	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u41	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u42	The next item is the continuation of the discussion of the draft law on the protection of children (No 4264, 4307).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u43	Last night, the Assembly continued its discussion of the articles of the bill, stopping with Amendment No. 89 to Article 5.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u44	I have before me four amendments, Nos 89, 38, 303 and 370, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 38, 303 and 370 are identical. I call Mr Michel Castellani to support Amendment No. 89.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u45	Presented by our colleague Frédérique Dumas, it aims to strengthen the control of institutions and services in charge of child protection, by introducing a monitoring strategy carried out by the department and the State services. In this context, it is proposed that the chair of the departmental council present an annual report on the management of these establishments, which would include the identification of serious adverse events. The aim of the amendment is also to organise an annual interview between a third party and each child admitted to institutions, in order to facilitate the confidentiality of ill-treatment within the institution.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u46	I call Mr Guillaume Chiche to support Amendment No. 38.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u47	It aims at holding an annual interview between a third party and each child placed in institutions, in order to facilitate the confidentiality of ill-treatment in the host institution. Most of the time, children do not dare to confide in the employees of the institution in question.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u48	Identical amendments No 303 by Mrs Elsa Faucillon and 370 by Mr François Ruffin are being defended. Mrs Pételle, rapporteur of the Committee on Social Affairs, has the floor to give the Committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u49	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u50	I call on the Secretary of State for Children and Families to give the Government's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u51	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u52	The Secretary of State has the floor to support Amendment No. 656.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u53	Its objective is to better address children with dual vulnerability – social assistance for children (SSE) and disability – so that the schemes under different authorities – departmental council, regional health agency – are better articulated and coordinated, plan the necessary supply of such assistance and monitor existing arrangements in the territory. The aim is to complement the provisions already implemented within the framework of the national strategy for the prevention and protection of children. I told you what was being done in favour of disability in this regard. Yesterday, amendments with the same objective were defended; you have agreed to withdraw them for the benefit of this one.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u54	I have before me two amendments, Nos 561 and 454, which may be submitted to a joint debate. Mrs Perrine Goulet has the floor to support Amendment No. 561.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u55	Transparency regarding incidents in institutions is developing; We must encourage it. The aim of the amendment is to publish an annual report by the department, which would be presented to the departmental assembly. It would identify serious and adverse events occurring in institutions. Why this proposal? Because all departmental councils need to know the state of child welfare policy in their department, which is not sufficiently the case, but above all, this work of concatenation of data and events would identify weaknesses, as well as avenues for improvement. For the time being, events are often treated one by one, without giving rise to a return of experience.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u56	Amendment No 454 by Mrs Isabelle Santiago is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u57	Medical and social institutions and services are already subject to a requirement to report serious adverse events, which covers the same scope as the proposed report. I am not sure that such a solemn presentation before the departmental assembly would allow for a better understanding of this subject, especially since this assembly should, in accordance with Article 5, produce a departmental strategy on violence. Like in committee, unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u58	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u59	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u60	Mrs Perrine Goulet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u61	Madam rapporteur, I really do not understand your opinion. Establishments identify serious adverse events; That's good, but that's not the point! Each establishment records them in its corner and provides information about it, but not all of these data are analyzed. Therefore, we will not see any improvement and we will not be able to detect weak signals, as is the case in all companies. Whether it is safety, safety or working conditions, all events occurring in a company are identified in a single document, which detects weak signals and offers avenues for improvement. I do not understand your unfavorable opinion, which I deplore. The report would have been a real steering tool for the departments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u62	Mr Alain Ramadier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u63	I support Mrs Goulet's amendment. It will require additional work, but with a view to transparency. Very few establishments are really problematic: let's point them out and try to improve the situation. The greater the transparency, the better it will be for child welfare.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u64	I have before me four amendments, Nos 131, 130, 335 and 729, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 130, 335 and 729 are identical. Mrs Sandrine Mörch has the floor to support Amendment No. 131.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u65	Sweden was the first country to introduce the prohibition of corporal punishment into law in 1979. Since then, it has seen a decrease in foster care. A recent study of data collected in eighty-eight countries has shown a correlation between the prohibition of corporal punishment and the reduction of physical violence among adolescents. In France, the legislator introduced into the Civil Code the principle that parental authority is exercised without physical or psychological violence, thus responding to the repeated recommendations of the Committee on the Rights of the Child and the European Committee on Social Rights. The Defender of Rights, in particular in his opinion to the Parliament in 2018, recalled the need for the prohibition of corporal punishment and humiliating treatment to also be included in the Education Code and in the Code of Social Action and Families. It is important that the legislator lays down the principle of this double prohibition for any professional working with children. It is once again a matter of strengthening the fight against the violence that may be experienced by some children in social assistance for children.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u66	Amendment No 130 by Mrs Sandrine Mörch is being defended. Mrs Albane Gaillot has the floor to support Amendment No. 335.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u67	My remarks complement those of Sandrine Mörch. Delphine Bagarry's common-sense amendment aims to strengthen the fight against violence against children hosted by ESA. In accordance with the opinion delivered by the Defender of Rights, UNICEF France (United Nations Children's Fund), at the origin of the amendment, recommends mentioning, as in the case of parental authority in the Civil Code, that the tasks of social assistance for children are carried out without physical or psychological violence against the child. That is understandable, and I hope that the amendment will be unanimous.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u68	I call Mrs Maud Petit to support Amendment No. 729.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u69	This excellent amendment, of consistency and common sense, was developed with the assistance of UNICEF. I am glad that many of my colleagues have also thought about it. Its aim is to incorporate the provisions of the Civil Code on parental authority, which must be exercised without physical or psychological violence, in order to apply them to the operation of social assistance for children.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u70	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u71	Your request is met. We know that such violence, already prohibited by law, exists. The tools we will put in place – the monitoring of staff's criminal history, the role of the focal point, the training and ownership of this subject by departmental institutions, departments and councils – will help combat them. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u72	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u73	The amendments are satisfied in several respects. Firstly, because of what the rapporteur has just explained, but also because Amendment No 431, which you have adopted in committee, incorporates the notions of well-contracting and ill-treatment as defined by the Commission for the promotion of good-contracting and the fight against ill-treatment. These concepts will therefore be applicable to child welfare. I would like to take this opportunity to recall, as Mrs Maud Petit has done, the proposed law on the prohibition of ordinary educational violence, which has allowed these concepts to be included in the civil code with regard to the exercise of parental authority. This text has been a step forward, of which the majority and all Members – since it was adopted unanimously – can be proud.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u74	Mr François Ruffin has the floor to support Amendment No. 310.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u75	That is an amendment I want to make. Homes must live not in a vacuum, but in external eyes. We have already talked about parliamentarians, but in my view there is a lack of an inspection body. The purpose of the amendment is to allow the delegates of the Ombudsman to make visits to the homes, as well as to the homes of the family assistants, to ensure the security of the accommodation conditions, to attend the meetings of the commissions – which sometimes do not exist, although they should – to give opinions to the president of the departmental council, to ask the judicial police officers to travel if there is an offence, to report any offences to the public prosecutor. In other words, it is a matter of giving a large place to the delegates of the Defender of Rights in the field of social assistance for children.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u76	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u77	Unfavorable opinion. As we have said on several occasions, seeking the Defender of Rights is a path to be explored. But such a development should be coordinated with it before the legislator acts on this principle. Moreover, the amendment goes too far legally, making the Defender of Rights both a referent, an inspector, an investigator, a police officer and even a representative of the victims. I don't think that's reasonable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u78	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u79	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u80	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u81	The imperfection of the writing is classic. You could under-amend the amendment to remove certain missions that you do not want to integrate and we could discuss them, but I am surprised to hear you say that this is not the time to discuss this issue, especially since you do not seem to want to do so in the Senate or at second reading: if a bill on child welfare does not offer an opportunity to debate the prerogatives of the delegates of the Defender of Rights, when can we do so? It will take years for a bill on the ESA to return to Parliament's agenda! It is therefore today that we must address the issue of the place of the delegates of the Defender of Rights: which third parties do we want to see intervene in the homes and, possibly, in the family assistants to ensure the rights of the child? Are you going to meet with the Defender of Rights before the Senate examines the text? Do you intend to address this issue in the Senate or here at the possible second reading?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u82	I call Mr François Ruffin to support Amendment No. 369.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u83	More conventionally, it aims to ensure that any person cared for by medical and social institutions and services can be assisted by a lawyer. Mr Secretary of State, can you answer the question that I asked about the inclusion in the text, on the occasion of the parliamentary shuttle, of the delegates of the Defender of Rights?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u84	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u85	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u86	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u87	As I said yesterday, you voted on the principle of the presence of a third-party reference person to whom children, mainly, can address. Its identity will be defined by decree. I have already told you that a legislative provision exists for medical and social institutions and that it can cover social institutions: the prefect designates a qualified person there and this provision could be made known while applying it to social structures. You have put forward a second line: those of the delegates of the Defender of Rights. I did not mention it, not that it seems bad to me, but because the Defender of Rights is an independent administrative authority (IAA): as a member of the executive, I cannot rule on this issue. If, in my personal capacity, I do not find your idea uninteresting, I cannot, in my institutional capacity, take a stand. I will meet, before the passage of the text in the Senate, the Defender of Rights, whom I often see, as well as the Children's Advocate, Eric Delemar, and we will have an opportunity to discuss this matter.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u88	Mrs Albane Gaillot has the floor to support Amendment No. 334.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u89	He's happy!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u90	This amendment, the first signatory of which is Delphine Bagarry, aims to free the child's word. He will find it difficult to talk to the professionals around him about the abuse he may suffer as part of his child protection reception, especially for fear of reprisals. It is important to ensure freedom of speech to persons outside the institution or service who can support it, enable it to exercise its rights and, where appropriate, accompany it in a reporting procedure. This amendment was proposed by the National Convention of Child Protection Associations (CNAPE).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u91	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u92	The amendment is satisfied.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u93	I have before me three identical amendments, Nos 58, 129 and 453. I call Mr Guillaume Chiche to support Amendment No. 58.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u94	It aims to make non-compliance with the policy of prevention and control of ill-treatment contained in the institution's or service's project a ground for withdrawal of approval. The chairman of the departmental council can withdraw the authorization to receive children's social assistance recipients: I propose that you go further and strengthen the sanction mechanism by withdrawing the approval.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u95	Mrs Sandrine Mörch has the floor to support Amendment No. 129.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u96	There are many testimonies from young adults from child welfare about abuse. In 2019, the fact-finding mission on social assistance for children, of which Alain Ramadier was president and Perrine Goulet the rapporteur had interviewed Mr Mamédi Diarra, who, placed for eleven years, referred to abuse – pimping, untreated psychological disorders – in structures that remained open. He proposed to impose "strong and uncompromising sanctions in case of abuse of a welcoming structure, whether psychological, physical or moral. I aim to withdraw the approval or authorization to accommodate children. This is in the best interests of the child because too many structures continue to practice and receive when abuse is proven and even known to departmental institutions. » With this in mind, the amendment aims to strengthen control over establishments and services for young minors. Article 5 requires them to pursue a policy of combating violence and preventing it. The amendment proposes to make non-compliance with this obligation a ground for withdrawal of approval. The departmental council may already withdraw the authorization to receive social assistance under Article L. 313-9 of the Code of Social Action and Families. However, the removal of authorizations is highly regulated and is not sufficient to withdraw accreditation in an institution that does not comply with the policy of prevention and control of abuse.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u97	Amendment No 453 by Mrs Isabelle Santiago is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u98	It is unfavorable, because these amendments are satisfied.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u99	I call Mr Guillaume Chiche to support Amendment No. 59.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u100	It is intended to make inadequate or inadequate care of the children who are receiving it a ground for withdrawal of the approval. Madam rapporteur, if you consider him to be satisfied, I would like to know the reason for this, as she has escaped me from the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u101	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u102	Article L. 313-9 of the Code of Social Action and Families already allows for the withdrawal of the authorization of reception to an institution in which serious facts and contrary to the commitments of the structure and the service would have occurred. More specifically, the 1° provides that an institution or service may be withdrawn if it does not comply or more with the organizational scheme which now contains a component of prevention against abuse. Moreover, a general provision, located at 3°, already provides that authorization may be withdrawn in the event of a substantial lack of knowledge of the agreement, which must include means of combating ill-treatment under Article L. 313-11-1. For these reasons, the opinion is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u103	Mrs Perrine Goulet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u104	During the fact-finding mission we conducted two years ago, we realized that assessments of the information of concern were really different from one territory to another. We had also identified good practices where associations were implementing ethno-clinical assessments to take into account parents' culture in order to eventually change it. Mr Secretary of State, thank you for translating this proposal into action, since Article 6 provides for the development of a single framework for assessing situations of concern throughout the territory. This will increase equality between families and harmonize practices across the country. However, it will have to be accompanied by training for social workers, not to mention the teachers who are the first to transmit the worrying information.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u105	Amendment No 337 by Mrs Delphine Bagarry is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u106	I have before me three identical amendments, Nos 153, 500 and 652. I call Mr Philippe Meyer to support Amendment No. 153.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u107	It is intended to delete, at the end of paragraph 1, the words "after the advice of the High Health Authority". The executive may consult with the HAS before making the decree establishing the identity of the single national repository. However, references in terms of professional practices must be multiple and go beyond the health field alone. Either Article 6 must make explicit mention of this multiplicity – department and the new Public Interest Grouping (PIG) created in Article 13 – or it must not cite any structure. For these reasons, the Assembly of the French Departments (ADF) proposes, as you know, the Secretary of State, to delete the mention of the consultation of the HAS without actually preventing it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u108	Amendments Nos 500 by Mrs Nicole Sanquer and 652 by Mr Paul Christophe are being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u109	He's unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u110	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u111	Same opinion. We have talked a lot about this in committee. Mrs Goulet, the origin of the single national repository is the joint report to several inspections on the unexpected deaths of infants in 2019 which showed a lack of common culture and a plurality of apprehensions on this subject, including the assessment of danger situations. I want to pay tribute to the work carried out for two years by the HAS, as well as that of all contributors, because the procedures, scientifically rigorous, are nonetheless open. About 60 departments and many associations have contributed to the development of the repository. Mr Meyer, since the integration of the missions of the National Agency for the Evaluation and Quality of Social and Social Institutions and Services (ANESM) by the HAS in 2018, the scope of the Agency is no longer limited to health care and covers the entire medical-social and social field, the latter having gained the rigour attached to the health sector. It is necessary to preserve this scientific rigour which has presided over the development of the repository for two years, so beware of its dilution in updates and evaluations. To this end, it is important to maintain the opinion of the HAS. The Commission has planned to set up a follow-up committee for this repository in which stakeholders will be involved as they have been in the development phase. Mrs Goulet, you are right to raise the issue of training. This will come under the new IPTF that, if adopted – I hope – Article 13 will create. Before joining you, I was in a meeting with Jean-Michel Blanquer and the working group on tracing sexual violence against children, which we set up to respond to the request made on 23 January by the President of the Republic. Following the release of the speech thanks to the # MeToo incest movement, Emmanuel Macron asked us to systematize the identification of the violence suffered by children in primary school and college as well as the psychological care of the child victims. On the first part, a group of associations, administrations and child psychiatrists worked for four months and presented us this morning with nineteen very important proposals that we will appropriate and that will begin to be deployed as early as September next – I will have the opportunity to tell you more. In this plan, which bears your mark, Mrs Goulet, there is a great deal of emphasis on the training of teachers and of all national education staff. All this is beginning to be articulated in a meaningful and coherent way.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u112	I call Mr Philippe Meyer to support Amendment No. 214.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u113	He proposed that paragraph 1 should be supplemented by the words "representatives of the departments and of the National Council for the Protection of Children established in article L. 147-13", in order to ensure that the decree establishing the national framework for the assessment of risk situations was taken not only after the opinion of the High Health Authority, which had just been mentioned, but also after the advice of the representatives of the departments and of the National Council for the Protection of Children (CNPE). Let us not forget the central role of departments, their expertise and competence in this field; It is important to involve their representatives.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u114	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u115	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u116	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u117	Unfavorable opinion. As I explained earlier, the amendment will be satisfied in practice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u118	I have before me three amendments, Nos 564, 612 and 501, which can be discussed jointly. Mrs Perrine Goulet has the floor in support of Amendments Nos 564 and 612 which can be put together.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u119	I suggest you reflect on the future of the repository, which has to evolve. Mr Secretary of State, I have taken note of our discussions in committee. You said that you should not get rid of the HAS, which is why I propose that from 2025 – which gives the IPTF time to be set up and the repository to live – the evolution of the repository be made after the joint opinion of the HAS, which responds to your request, and of the IPTF, which responds to ours and that of the departments. These are compromise, transversal and collegial amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u120	Mrs Beatrice Descamps has the floor to support Amendment No. 501.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u121	Article 6 provides for the harmonization of the assessment of situations of risk for the protection of children. This will be a step forward in fairness and coherence. However, the application of the law as soon as it is promulgated does not seem feasible, especially since the IPTF intended to implement the benchmark is still not established; In addition, it will be necessary to provide for training and ownership for the teams. The amendment therefore proposes to clarify that the national framework will be applicable within one year of the enactment of the law in order to ensure its proper application and understanding.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u122	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u123	Opinion against Mrs Goulet's amendments for the reasons set out in committee. Mrs Descamps, the repository is already in operation; unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u124	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u125	The amendments are satisfied. I would add, since I seem to have difficulty convincing, that the follow-up committee set up by the HAS will include the central administrations concerned, representatives of ANDASS – the National Association of Directors of Social Action and Health of the Departments and Metropolises – of ADF, but also of the ONPE – National Observatory for Child Protection. The IPTF will therefore be fully involved in these efforts.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u126	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 60 and 247. I call Mr Guillaume Chiche to support Amendment No. 60.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u127	Working in conjunction with UNICEF, the amendment tends to raise the three-month deadline for the departmental council to assess information of concern from the time it is received.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u128	Amendment No 247 by Mr Ugo Bernalicis is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u129	The amendments are satisfied. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u130	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor to support Amendment No. 311.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u131	It proposes that regular training be provided on the national risk assessment framework. It seems to us to be a more effective way of diagnosing danger and ultimately ensuring equal treatment throughout the country. It is therefore appropriate for all professionals to take advantage of this through regular training, which will ensure its ownership. I should like to add that, since training, in particular training in national education, was already being discussed, both in this sector and in all sectors which are strained in terms of recruitment, the training of professionals is often difficult because of the lack of resources. It will therefore be necessary to ensure that recruitment is sufficient, otherwise the services will not be able to provide their officers with the necessary training to appropriate the procedures.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u132	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u133	I fully agree with you about the need to train staff at the repository, but it is up to the departmental councils – relying, where appropriate, on the state – to ensure this effective training.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u134	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u135	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u136	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u137	Madam rapporteur, Secretary of State, you cannot act as if there was no need for homogenisation of departmental policies. We see as a problem the fact that this policy is entrusted to the departments. Admit it; That's how it is. But how can we ensure that there are no 100 different policies per 100 different departments? The answer cannot be to entrust the training to the chairman of the departmental council. It can be seen that even certain legal obligations are not fulfilled in a uniform manner, or even do not exist at all in certain places. We talked about the project for the child, but there are also CESSEC, commissions to assess the situation and status of children in care, and company. If there is no desire on the part of the State to homogenize, there will be nothing on arrival. Children's policy will look like a puzzle. She's already broken up, and she'll be.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u138	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u139	We can have big debates on this, but bring them to the right place, Mr. Ruffin. We created a national repository because the danger faced by children was not considered in the same way in Lille and Marseilles. We have created a repository that we propose to include in the law to nationalize the procedure! And training at this repository, to whom is it entrusted? To a public interest group whose national leadership you will strengthen; All of this is in your direction. I don't understand your intervention.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u140	Amendment No 503 by Mrs Agnes Thill on the additional article after Article 6 is defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u141	Mrs Souad Zitouni has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u142	The article 7 which we are going to discuss allows the juvenile judge ruling on educational assistance to refer a case to a college where its particular complexity justifies it, for any kind of decision and at any time in the proceedings. This is a step forward: until now, the children's judge has acted alone in this matter, while in other criminal courts, such as the Children's Court, assessors are present. For the juvenile judge, it is sometimes complicated to make a well-weighted decision that will have serious consequences for children. Article 7 is therefore very important: it is not a question of systematically imposing the use of collegiate training, but simply of allowing the juvenile judge to refer the case to a collegiate court of three judges, who will be able to examine the case properly. The amendment by my colleague Alexandra Louis, who will be called in a moment, tends to ensure that this provision does not only concern the juvenile judge and that any party to the proceedings can request referral to a collegiate court. The article provides that the children's judge shall take this decision alone; I wonder if it would not be possible to involve other parties. In any event, the article is a step forward. Providing more flexibility to the children's judge means allowing for fairer treatment in the best interests of the child; This is a laudable innovation that I look forward to.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u143	I have before me three amendments, Nos 278, 396 and 509, which may be submitted to a joint debate. Amendments Nos 396 and 509 are identical. Amendment No 278 by Mrs Alexandra Louis is being defended. Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor to support Amendment No. 396.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u144	It aims to end the isolation of the juvenile judge in the most complex educational assistance cases. I share my colleague's concern that if it seems appropriate for the judge to ask for his opinion to be compared with that of a collegiate body, the parties should also be able to apply to the children's judge. This would guarantee the independence of the decision rendered.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u145	Mrs Valérie Six has the floor to support Amendment No. 509.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u146	It is intended to allow the parties to request the use of collegiality in the context of educational assistance measures. According to the impact study of the bill, the use of collegiality will help to end the isolation of the judge in the most complex educational assistance cases. However, leaving it to the judge alone to ask for collegiality will not fully achieve this objective. The same impact assessment rejects the possibility of a reference to the initiative of the parties in so far as it would be inapplicable in the smallest courts. This argument does not satisfy us, because it also invalidates the opening of collegiality at the initiative of the juvenile judge and thus creates inequality in access to law in our territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u147	What is the committee's opinion on these amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u148	It seems more relevant to leave the assessment of collegiality to the judge. Your proposal could lead to the systematization of the meeting of a college to the detriment of the efficiency of justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u149	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u150	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u151	I have before me two amendments, Nos 372 and 510, which can be discussed jointly. Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor to support Amendment No. 372.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u152	Collegiateness is a fundamental element in the area of justice. The aim of the amendment is to provide an additional guarantee for children in the field of child protection: it seems to us that, in order to retain its specialized character, only children's judges must compose this college. This means that a sufficient number of children's judges must be made available. We once again note the need to redouble our efforts if we are to have enough judges, including children's judges, to ensure collegiality and maintain the spirit of the 1945 Ordinance, which provides for specialization in child protection.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u153	Mrs Valérie Six has the floor to support Amendment No. 510.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u154	It is intended to clarify that the collegial training referred to in article 7 will consist of three children's judges. The President may appoint as assessors either children's judges, in jurisdictions where there are several, or two other judges of the judicial court for small and medium-sized courts. However, we believe it is necessary for the college training to be composed of specialists in the field of educational assistance capable of gathering the child's words. The amendment therefore proposes that the college training be composed of three judges for children in practice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u155	I have before me two amendments, Nos 607 and 286, which may be submitted to a joint debate. I call Mrs Perrine Goulet to support Amendment No. 607.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u156	As I did in committee, I propose that you clarify the procedure for the formation of collegiate training in the courts composed of less than two children's judges. I have heard your remarks about the specific nature of the organisation of the courts, which is why I have completed the amendment by stating that a decree in the Council of State would specify these provisions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u157	Mr Alain Ramadier has the floor to support Amendment No. 286.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u158	The aim of this amendment by the Republican Group is to ensure the presence of another juvenile judge in the collegiate training envisaged by this article. Indeed, the distribution of children's judges in the national territory is not sufficient to ensure that college training will include children's professionals. The impact assessment of the draft law states that "the president of the judicial court will thus be responsible for the appointment of this collegial formation composed of a president, the juvenile judge seized of the case, and two other magistrates of the judicial court". However, we consider that the juvenile judge is a specialized magistrate and that recourse to other magistrates without a guarantee that they are competent in this matter could be detrimental to the interests of the measure. The amendment therefore proposes that, within the framework of the collegiate training, the juvenile judge on file should be able to appeal to children's judges in a court adjacent to his or her jurisdiction in the event of the absence of a juvenile judge available, as provided for in article L. 251-3 of the Code of the Judicial Organization for the purposes of the Children's Court. Moreover, in view of the budgetary difficulties of the judicial system, it is important not to place the organization of justice on the judges alone. Finally, in addition to taking into account the interests of the child, this measure is likely to prevent unequal treatment of decisions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u159	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u160	Mrs Goulet, I would ask you to withdraw your amendment because it would have the effect of pushing the judges of the courts composed of less than two children's judges to resort automatically to the neighbouring jurisdictions without examining the possibilities they have in their own courts, when they often include former children's judges or former family judges among their colleagues. With regard to Mr Ramadier's amendment, I do not think that it is appropriate to exclude from the collegiality of magistrates who could have their full place there, such as family judges who are often former children's judges. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u161	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u162	It is a reality that all judges have been trained on the issue of minors, and most of them, including family judges, have already served as child judges in the past. It is therefore a shame to take it away. On the other hand, the judicial organisation is designed in such a way that, although it is exceptionally possible to employ judges from neighbouring jurisdictions, it is both complicated and rare. A judge is attached to a court. But what matters is, basically: by adopting the previous amendment which requires that the college training be composed of three children's judges, you have in fact made Article 7 inoperative, which nevertheless met a long-standing demand from the children's judges. Vote on this amendment, but I would like to announce that I will be tabling an amendment in the Senate to revert to this provision. I do not understand this vote. We have long, argued and, I believe, relevant discussions in committee for long hours. However, the same amendments tabled at the sitting are the subject of votes which empty the substance of an article which has yet to respond to a unanimous request from the children's judges! These magistrates sometimes find themselves alone in complex situations and need different, cross-examinations to help them in their task. You know the complexity of this matter, and you know how difficult it can be for a judge to decide, for example, to take a child away from his or her family! But now we just threw it all on the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u163	Mr Philippe Meyer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u164	Juvenile justice is a special justice system whose sensitivity is not beyond the reach of anyone on these benches. Following the remarks of the Secretary of State, it would seem interesting for the Republican Group to be able to discuss this with the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u165	Indeed, this would not have been inappropriate. Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u166	We are many to follow up on this issue, both in committee and in session. The legitimacy of parliamentary amendments is not to be questioned. If we believe that it is necessary to assert and guarantee the specialisation of children's judges by requiring the presence of at least three children's judges in college training, this is based on the work we have done. In addition, Mr. Secretary of State, one of the criticisms put forward against your bill, particularly by associations, is that you are not giving yourself the financial and human resources to make this law effective. Indeed, it contains laudable general principles to which everyone subscribes, but without the means of their implementation. This applies not only to this article, but also to many others. Providing justice means ensuring with the Ministry of Justice that we have a sufficient number of judges or that we are going to provide ourselves with the necessary means to ensure that we no longer have justice at the expense in general, and for children in particular. For this is the fundamental problem: there are not enough children's judges, and those in operation are overwhelmed because they cannot afford to do their work properly. If you want your bill to be effective, give yourself the necessary resources and ensure that there are enough recruitments. But do not question the legitimacy of parliamentarians when they want to have amendments adopted that they consider satisfactory or necessary.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u167	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u168	I do not question the legitimacy of parliamentarians, I simply specify the consequences of what you have just voted for.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u169	You're the executive, we're the legislature.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u170	I'm in my role. Mrs Obono, since you know the subject, do you know how many courts only have one child judge? You know that, I suppose!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u171	Yes, and that's a problem!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u172	There are 26 of them. You also knew that the recruitment of 70 children's judges and 100 children's court clerks, announced by Nicole Belloubet, is under way.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u173	It's still not enough!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u174	You question me about the means, I'll answer you! You also probably know that this measure follows the 2019 report I mentioned earlier on the unexpected deaths of infants. In complex situations, it is important for a judge to be able to sit in college. Finally, you know that this measure corresponds to a promise made by Nicole Belloubet two years ago, on July 4, 2019, in Marseille, to the national foundations of child protection, and that we had the opportunity to implement, but no matter what, the parliamentary shuttle also serves that purpose. I am a co-legislator; I will therefore defend an amendment which will restore the possibility of forming a collegiate training beyond the children's judges alone.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u175	Mr Guillaume Chiche has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u176	I voted in favour of Amendment No 510 on the composition of collegiate training. Article 7 provides that, in the case of "educational assistance, if the particular complexity of a case so warrants, the juvenile judge may, at any time in the proceedings, order that he be referred to the collegiate formation of the judicial court which rules as a juvenile judge. If one opts for a collegiality mechanism – which I understand, provided it is operational and operational – and from the moment this college rules as a child judge, I do not see why it would not be composed of children's judges.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u177	I have before me five identical amendments, Nos 667, 622, 645, 647 and 705. On Amendment No 667, I have a request for a public vote before the Group of the European People's Party. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. The Secretary of State has the floor to support Amendment No. 667.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u178	We have had and will continue to have discussions about the presence of a lawyer with the child in educational assistance. We have had a lot of them in committee, and we have had a lot of them in committee around Article 2. After listening and consulting, as you have also done, several associations, orders and bars – for example, the French Association of Youth and Family Magistrates (AFMJF) – the Government proposes to give to the juvenile judge – which I recall, without developing the subject matter, the particularity of the office – the possibility of appointing a lawyer of its own motion to accompany the child if he considers that his presence is likely to strengthen the guarantee of the best interests of the child of which he is the judge and depositary. This proposal is also defended by parliamentarians in identical amendments – notably by Mr Balanant, who had supported this idea in committee. I therefore leave it to their authors to develop it if they so wish.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u179	I call Mr Paul Christophe to support Amendment No. 622.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u180	These identical amendments are the result of the collective work carried out in committee as well as of the work prior to this discussion. As the Secretary of State had pointed out, they were an opportunity to recall that, while the juvenile judge was indeed the first defender of children and of the general interest of the child, he could use the assistance of a lawyer, if necessary. Secretary of State, we welcome the translation into this bill of your commitment to accompany us in this text to an effective rewrite of section 375-1 of the Civil Code.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u181	I call Mrs Perrine Goulet to support Amendment No. 645.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u182	This amendment tabled by the MODEM Group is indeed the same as the previous amendment. Not knowing whether the sub-amendments I have tabled will be adopted, I would like to inform you of my personal opinion on the subject. The question of the presence of a lawyer with the child in educational assistance was a key feature of the Commission's hearings and debates. She was also very active in the work of the 2019 parliamentary fact-finding mission on child welfare. All its members shared the belief that the presence of a child's lawyer as soon as an educational procedure was envisaged was necessary. Mr Secretary of State, we are going to agree on a disagreement that is neither legal nor political but philosophical and that concerns the notion of discernment. That is the subject of the sub-amendments that I have tabled. You explained it yesterday: discernment is the child's ability to answer for what happens to him. If the child is not discerning, I have a deep conviction that his or her interests must be defended by a third party. We could possibly discuss the need to appoint an ad hoc administrator in the case of a child who is not discerning. But understand us well: the lawyer is essential and the majority's amendment, even if it makes a breakthrough, will not be effective and will not be enough to achieve the goal I set myself. Indeed, why would a judge who would trigger procedural elements put sticks in the wheels by bringing in a person who might call into question the actions of the magistrate? My fear is that this provision – which we will no doubt adopt, since it is supported by the Government – will in fact be inoperative. The magistrates tell us that the obligation to have a lawyer for the child would relieve them. Because what is the judge's role? To enforce the law, no more, no less. It is already a criminal truth, where the juvenile judge rules even though the child is represented by a lawyer. This principle must therefore be duplicated in civil proceedings. A lawyer is also necessary because he is the guarantor of the interests of the child, and only of the child, for whom he is a source of stability. Indeed, a lawyer remains in place, while a juvenile judge or a referent educator may evolve in their functions and functions. The capacity of the lawyer to collect the child's words, to distinguish between crimes and offences that he or she might have suffered and that would not have been detected, to understand family mechanics or to determine his or her desire to be placed with a trusted third party or with a family member is essential.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u183	Thank you for closing, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u184	I'll finish it. More generally, the creation of a special field for children seems to me necessary, a fortiori if we are to create, as has been mentioned, a code for children.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u185	Thank you, Mrs. Goulet.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u186	Mr Secretary of State, I urge you to reconsider the question of the presence of the lawyer with the child, and to be more ambitious in this area.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u187	I call Mrs Pételle, rapporteur, to support Amendment No. 647.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u188	I spoke at length about this yesterday. In my view, our amendment represents a major step forward in the defence of the rights of minors in the educational assistance procedure. The proposed procedure seems to me to be more respectful of the role of the juvenile judge and more relevant than that of systematizing the presence of a lawyer. The juvenile judge is responsible for the best interests of the child. It is therefore natural that it should be his or her duty to estimate when the presence of an ex officio lawyer is necessary and when it is not.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u189	Mrs Monique Limon has the floor to support Amendment No. 705.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u190	The juvenile judge may not, in the present state of the law, appoint a lawyer on his own initiative if he deems it necessary. However, the possibility for the child to be assisted by a lawyer appears essential in certain particularly complex or conflicting cases or when the interests of the child so require, in order to obtain his/her word, to ensure his/her understanding of the procedure, and to assert his/her rights and basic needs. The amendment therefore proposes to strengthen the child's right to a lawyer by providing that the juvenile judge may request the barrister to appoint a lawyer for a child capable of discernment where his or her interest so requires.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u191	I should like to inform you that the sub-amendments to these identical amendments have all been declared inadmissible by the Finance Committee under Rule 40. What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u192	The office of the juvenile judge, Ms. Goulet, is to defend minors in danger, not to settle a conflict – even though I spoke yesterday of "conflictuality", which may have led to a misunderstanding of my intentions. When the judge appoints a lawyer, it is therefore not to put sticks in the wheels but on the contrary to be accompanied in the protection of these minors in danger. The judges themselves ask us. I would also remind the national representative that the judge always has the opportunity to hear a child, even if he or she is incapable of discernment, if he or she considers that to be meaningful from the point of view of the interests of the child. The concept of discernment refers to the child's ability to understand the procedure and what happens to him or her. It can therefore vary from age to age or from child to child.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u193	Mrs Perrine Goulet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u194	I do not understand why my sub-amendments have been declared inadmissible. One of them was intended to delete the words "capable of discernment" but it was discarded because it could create an additional burden!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u195	Because more children would be involved!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u196	This is a new right; It's not about the charge. Since in any case it is the judge who will decide whether the minor is capable of discernment or not, this cannot lead to an additional burden. As for the substance, the identical amendments are certainly a step forward, but they are minimal, since they allow for an unequal system where some judges allow the assistance of a lawyer when others oppose them, where some bars have sufficient resources to finance the accompaniment of these children when others are too poor to accompany them. This creates inequality. I find this a pity and I am disappointed that we are opposed to a proposal that does not create any burden. It would be time to address this issue in article 40.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u197	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u198	[[Smile on several benches]] My amendment on the presumption of a minority of unaccompanied minors was opposed to the same inadmissibility, Mr Woerth explaining to me that establishing such a presumption could increase the number of minors recognized as such! There is still a small problem for legislators that we are being opposed to this kind of answer! This reinforced my conviction of the merits of this amendment, since it was to recognize that today minors are treated as adults. It goes without saying that I will use Mr Woerth's political response, but it puts us in a rather terrible situation. The question of the lawyer, which has given rise to much debate, illustrates a deep disagreement between us, Mr. Secretary of State, both philosophically and politically, as to what the role of the children's lawyer and that of the judge should be. As you recognize the specific nature of the child judge, I do not understand that you refuse to hear that there is also a specific role for the lawyer responsible for defending the child's fundamental rights and accompanying him/her throughout the proceedings. You do not see that within the specific system of children's courts and the legal path of children, a child's lawyer occupies a unique, special and useful place. Of course, I regret this disagreement, which considerably weakens the progress you are proposing.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u199	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u200	I will go along with my colleagues. It is true that there has been a lot of discussion on this subject and that there will be many more. The governmental amendment is in fact the product of our debates and proposals that have been defended for a long time, well before the discussion of this text or even of the texts on justice, particularly by associations. But after taking two steps, we take a step backwards and multiply the barriers, at the risk of allowing inequalities to persist. While one of the difficulties of this subject is the heterogeneity of situations, you will further strengthen it. More fundamentally, I do not understand more than my colleagues that you oppose the need to maintain the exclusive prerogatives of the child judge in the defence of the child's interests, whereas the child's counsel is also supposed to defend these interests: it is the very meaning of his office, even if he may not agree with the judge. Unless the real question is the cost of such a measure, as we have seen on other issues: this measure will be expensive and therefore cannot be taken on budget. If you do not have any substantive arguments to oppose us and present this amendment, it is already a recognition of a necessity that has not been recognised so far.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u201	Mr Guillaume Chiche has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u202	I keep it: children must be able to benefit from the support and assistance of a lawyer, especially in the face of terribly complex situations. I interpret this amendment of the Government as a confession: it is to recognize the fact that it is in the child's best interests to be accompanied by a lawyer to carry his word, to accompany him in the courts and to defend his best interests. You propose, Mr. Secretary of State, that the lawyer be appointed by the judge. I think that the lawyer's presence should be automatic and I encourage you to take this second step during the parliamentary shuttle so that all children can finally be helped and accompanied. I should like to add a comment on the inadmissibility which has been opposed under Rule 40, in particular to the sub-amendment by Mr Perrine Goulet. I do not understand that a device which has been declared admissible as an amendment is now deemed inadmissible under Rule 40 as a sub-amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u203	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u204	Why such an evolution in the assessment of their admissibility?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u205	I put to the vote identical amendments Nos 667, 622, 645, 647 and 705.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u206	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 54 Number of votes cast 50 Absolute majority 26 For adoption 50 Against 0
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u207	I have two identical amendments before me, Nos 457 and 590. Amendment No 457 by Mrs Isabelle Santiago is being defended. I call Mr Guillaume Chiche to support Amendment No. 590.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u208	The purpose of this amendment is to ensure that, when the juvenile judge considers that the rights of the minor are not sufficiently guaranteed, he or she requests that a lawyer specializing in the defence of minors be appointed to ensure the best possible defence of the best interests of the child, which is the objective of the Government's amendment that we have just adopted.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u209	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u210	We share the same objective, but I will propose that you withdraw your amendment, now that we have voted for the possibility for the minor to be defended by a lawyer when the juvenile judge considers it relevant. Your amendment is too restrictive in characterizing the lawyer who may be appointed ex officio, which may render ineffective the possibility for the child judge to apply for the appointment of such a lawyer.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u211	On the following amendment No 566, I have a request for a public vote before the Group of the European People's Party. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mrs Perrine Goulet has the floor to support Amendment No. 566.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u212	My amendment seems to be a source of concern because everyone has to be brought back! [[Ms. Florence Provendier applauds]] We disagreed: we want all children to have the assistance of a lawyer, you do not think that is necessary. Well! I propose an experiment that will make it possible to check whether the assistance of a lawyer is relevant or not: this is the subject of this amendment. I may be opposed, as I did last week, to the fact that this generalization has just been voted and that there is no need for experimentation, but the experiment that I propose will allow you to check whether the presence of a lawyer is useful in these procedures, especially since it will take place in the departments that have the highest investment rates, up to four times the national average.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u213	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u214	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u215	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u216	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u217	Mr Guillaume Chiche has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u218	I am fully in favour of this amendment, which is intended to allow on an experimental basis for the systematic appointment of lawyers ex officio. Yesterday, half of the national representation demonstrated in its vote that it was in favour of it: I encourage you to continue the same dynamic by moving forward with one vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u219	I put to the vote Amendment No. 566.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u220	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 51 Number of votes cast 50 Absolute majority 26 For adoption 24 Against 26
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u221	Oh!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u222	I have before me three identical amendments, Nos 61, 133 and 248. Mr Guillaume Chiche's amendment No 61 is being defended. Mrs Sandrine Mörch has the floor to support Amendment No. 133.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u223	The purpose of this amendment is for the judge to be consulted, and not only to be notified of any change in the place of placement, except in the event of an emergency. I would like to remind you once again that all the former children placed in our audition as part of the information mission reported by Perrine Goulet told us from the outset – and without consulting each other – how much they had suffered from being shaken from one structure or family to another without transition, without accompaniment, without passing through a relay, and that all the ties they had forged were cut off overnight. Lyes Louffok, for example, had been placed at his birth in a foster family where he had remained for five years; When this link had to be broken due to removal, it was squashed in seven different places of placement in ten years, and it was this very first earthquake suffered at the age of 5 that obsessed with all the chances of successful placement. It therefore seems to me that consultation with the judge is indispensable, not just his information.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u224	Amendment No 248 by Mr Ugo Bernalicis is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u225	I do not hide from you that I have asked myself at length about the advisability of tabling an amendment to this effect. However, I would like to point out from the field side, in particular from the ESA services, that decisions to modify the place of employment are taken collectively and in the framework of consultations involving, inter alia, educators, DACs, or decision support commissions, and psychologists. This amendment is therefore likely to increase the procedure, which already improves the judge's information on the matter and which I think is sufficient.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u226	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u227	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u228	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u229	I will defend Amendment No 248, since I have not had time to do so, and in so doing I will respond to the rapporteur's remarks. This amendment, also supported by UNICEF, from which we have taken up the proposals, does not tend to increase procedures but to guarantee the interests of the child by providing that the judge will be consulted, and not only informed. Indeed, one of the reasons why we have this debate is that some dysfunctions have been noted in this area; It was the testimony of many children in care, referring to decisions taken in a way that was not in their interest, that largely prompted this legislation. To get to the end of this logic without stopping on the ground that the current functioning would be sufficient, we must ensure that these decisions do not call into question the balance and do not go in a way contrary to that of the child's interest. Like several associations and like the persons concerned, we consider it important that the judge to whom the text entrusts additional prerogatives to defend the interests of the child be genuinely consulted, and not only informed, in order to be able to ascertain this.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u230	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 646.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u231	The aim of this amendment is to clarify the wording which we adopted in committee on the initiative of Mrs Goulet, stating that the judge must be informed as soon as possible, within 48 hours, when a decision to change the place of placement has been taken.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u232	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 62 and 134. I call Mr Guillaume Chiche to support Amendment No. 62.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u233	In the same spirit as the amendments previously defended, it aims to enable the judge to give his opinion on the changes in the place of placement of the minor child within 15 days.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u234	Mrs Sandrine Mörch has the floor to support Amendment No. 134.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u235	This is a withdrawal amendment, which provides for ex post consultation of the competent judge.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u236	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u237	Unfavorable opinion for the same reasons as I mentioned earlier.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u238	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u239	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u240	I have before me three amendments, Nos 39, 458 and 714, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 458 and 714 are identical. I call Mr Guillaume Chiche to support Amendment No. 39.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u241	It is intended to provide that the decision to change the place of placement is the subject of a departmental order and that the child is assisted by a lawyer.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u242	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor to support Amendment No. 458.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u243	It responds to the observation that certain decisions do not necessarily go in the interests of the child and therefore tends to require that an order of the department or any other provision be made which might reinforce the information of the judge when a change of place of placement is decided.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u244	Mrs Maud Petit has the floor to support Amendment No. 714.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u245	This amendment, identical to the previous one, is intended to impose an obligation which we believe is of common sense. Effectiveness requires that the judge be informed as soon as possible of the change of place of placement of the child.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u246	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u247	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u248	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u249	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u250	Mr Guillaume Chiche has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u251	I would like to respond to this non-explanation, because I would have liked, Mr Secretary of State, to have an answer on this fundamental point. We know that changing places of placement is a traumatic event in the journey of many children, who see their landmarks change when they have to leave one place for another, sometimes change departments and abandon certain attachments, however fragile they may be. Such a change must be the subject of an administrative act, of an order against which the young person can appeal and, above all, I repeat, of the assistance and assistance of a lawyer. We are talking here about a decision which leads to a shift from point A to point B and a new place of life. That is not nothing, and it must be endorsed. Many children – we interviewed during the fact-finding mission with Perrine Goulet – feel that they are constantly truncated to the right and to the left, from their placement to their majority: we must mark this situation with administrative acts as secure as possible and protect the best interests of the child in this mechanics. I therefore urge you to vote for this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u252	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor to support Amendment No. 374.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u253	This amendment, which goes in the same direction as the previous ones and which was suggested by the Repairs! association, aims to ensure that decisions on the movement and change of places of children are taken under the authority of the president or the chairman of the departmental council, in order to make them effective against the law and subject to appeal. The systematic presence of a lawyer would ensure this fundamental right for the benefit of the children concerned by making it effective against an act that is not trivial and sometimes has major and tragic consequences for them. This right to appeal seems to us to be a minimum from the point of view of justice due to these children, who may be the ones who would need it most.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u254	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u255	Disfavorable, because the amendment is satisfied.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u256	Amendment No 375 by Mr François Ruffin, introducing an additional article after Article 8, is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u257	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 403 and 512. Amendment No 403 by Mrs Cécile Untermaier is being defended. Mrs Valérie Six has the floor to support Amendment No. 512.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u258	Its purpose is to place the judge at the centre of decisions for the child and to strengthen the transmission of ESA evaluation notes and reports to the parties. The heavy intervention of the judicial authority in educational assistance must be able to guarantee the contradiction by giving the child and the parents the opportunity to make their arguments heard at the hearing, which is the essential moment in the entire proceedings for the judicial protection of children. The content of the hearing is thus conditioned by the quality of the reports drawn up by social workers and experts. However, while the ESA has an obligation to prepare a report for the judge and the parties on the educational measures carried out by its services, it is regrettable that this report is transmitted only at the end of the measure. Furthermore, in practice, it is noted that the ESA report is submitted very late by its services and that lawyers and the judge will only be aware of it a few days before the educational renewal hearing.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u259	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u260	This report is already intended to enable the juvenile judge to know how the measure is implemented, often with regard to educational assistance. Under article L. 223-5 of the Family and Social Assistance Code, ESA services are already preparing at least once a year, and every six months for children under the age of 2 years, a report on all aspects of the minor's life, which is used to verify the achievement of the objectives set by the court decision. This report shall be transmitted to the judicial authority as soon as it is completed. I therefore call for the amendment to be withdrawn. Failing that, unfavorable notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u261	Amendment No 275 by Mrs Alexandra Louis is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u262	Mrs Beatrice Descamps has the floor to support Amendment No. 491.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u263	It is intended to ensure that, following the notification of a child in danger to the judicial authority, the hearing at which the judge examines the minor's situation shall take place no later than one month after the application has been filed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u264	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 413 and 513. Amendment No 413 by Mrs Cécile Untermaier is being defended. I call Mrs Valérie Six to support Amendment No. 513.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u265	The purpose of this amendment is to clarify that the educational assistance measures imposed by the judge are implemented as soon as possible by the services to which the child is entrusted. Otherwise, the services of the ESA shall inform the judges of the obstacles encountered in order to enable it to modify the way in which the measure is implemented, so that the decision is made applicable without delay. In addition, the amendment provides that the views of the parties shall be taken when the judge amends or reports the decision on educational assistance, and that the child's lawyer may also request that the decision on educational assistance be amended or deleted.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u266	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u267	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u268	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u269	Since these amendments are satisfied, I request that they be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u270	I have before me four amendments, Nos 79, 249, 80 and 250, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 79 and 249 are identical, as are Amendments Nos 80 and 250. I call Mr Guillaume Chiche to support Amendment No. 79.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u271	It tends to provide that, where the decision on educational assistance is not carried out within a reasonable period of time, the juvenile judge shall order a periodic penalty payment to ensure the enforcement of his decision, in accordance with the Code of Civil Enforcement Proceedings. It is therefore a matter of strengthening the power of the judge in the implementation of his decisions. Given what you told us earlier, it seems to me to reinforce your logic. Amendment No 80 is also being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u272	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor to support Amendment No. 249.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u273	At the same time, I will defend similar amendment No 250, which seeks to clarify that the juvenile judge may, even ex officio, order a periodic penalty payment to ensure that his decision is enforced. As for Amendment No. 249, which was proposed to us by UNICEF, it is intended to provide that the juvenile judge may order a periodic penalty payment to ensure the enforcement of his decisions on educational assistance when they are not carried out within a reasonable period of time. I would point out that the report issued in 2019 by IGAS, the Inspectorate-General for Social Affairs, on the deadlines for the execution of court decisions in the field of child protection, indicated, in addition to a lack of data on the matter at both departmental and national level, a tendency to increase these deadlines. For example, the average time taken to implement educational measures in an open environment (AEMO) is more than four months for one third of the departments and, for two thirds, between zero and three months. On average, 8% to 9% of educational measures in an open environment are awaiting implementation. This increase in delays in the execution of court decisions has adverse consequences at all stages of care and may result in a child's danger, disruptions of care, default guidance or the purpose of measures that are too early or at an early stage. Where placement measures are not carried out, minors may be kept in danger for several weeks or months. In some departments, misdemeanours of execution are particularly common in the case of unaccompanied minors. The law already gives the judge the possibility to order a periodic penalty payment to ensure the enforcement of his decision, but this possibility is rarely used in matters of educational assistance. That is why we believe it is necessary to strengthen it by indicating it in the law.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u274	The identical amendments No 80 by Mr Guillaume Chiche and No 250 by Mrs Danièle Obono were therefore also defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u275	As you say yourself, the children's judge can already order a periodic penalty payment to ensure that his or her decision is enforced. Repeating it in the civil code would make the law unnecessary chatter without ensuring a better application of the measure. Secondly, the financial supervision of the departmental councils is not the solution: on the contrary, IGAS indicates in its report that there is a need to strengthen the coordination between the judicial authority and the services of ESA around the National Observatory for the Protection of Children.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u276	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u277	Indeed, this request is partly satisfied by the provisions of the Civil Code: as you yourself have said, Mrs Obono, the judge already has the opportunity to issue periodic penalty payments. Furthermore, as you have mentioned a few figures, I would also like to share with the national representative the conclusions of the report of the General Inspectorate of Justice on this issue. It states that the average time limit for the implementation of the investment measures is 10 days, with only 2% of the measures still pending implementation. This rate is even lower than 1 per cent in half of the departments that responded to the survey. Since the forum published in 2018, which had triggered the inspection procedure in order to objectify the situation, things have been clarified and are more in the right direction. Of course, 8 to 9% of AEMO's measures are still awaiting implementation, but their total number has been increasing in recent years – and so much the better, since they are preventive measures. Two final elements of the response: on the one hand, the contract provided for in the national strategy for the prevention and protection of children allows the State to finance the creation of AEMO places to further reduce delays. On the other hand, as the rapporteur said, the ODPE – departmental observatories for child protection – will be at the heart of territorial governance, which, tomorrow, will bring together all actors. Nevertheless, following the report of the General Inspectorate, quadripartite bodies have already been set up locally and include the Department, the Children's Court, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Judicial Protection of Youth (PJJ). They make it possible to better control the devices and to shorten the deadlines for the application of the measures. All the devices that I have just presented to you are therefore likely to improve the situations denounced – rightly, at the time – by a number of judges, particularly those of the Bobigny court.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u278	Mr Guillaume Chiche has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u279	I think it's important to give the judge the power to issue periodic penalty payments...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u280	He already has it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u281	... and to reaffirm it in the code so that this measure becomes fully operational and used, as this is not the case. Madam rapporteur, you have told us that it would not be a good policy to want to place departments under financial supervision by issuing periodic penalty payments. However, in a deeply inhuman article of the bill – article 15 on procedures for regulating the migratory flows of unaccompanied minors (MNA), to which child status is no longer recognized – you are indeed planning financial sanctions applicable to departmental councils that would not follow the schemes imposed by the text. I therefore do not understand, ladies and gentlemen, why the political orientation and the methods of action would differ depending on whether they concern the MNA or other children. I deeply believe in the universality of the rights of the child; We should always strive to defend their best interests. In the present case, giving children's judges the opportunity to issue periodic penalty payments in the event of non-execution of decisions is indeed to ensure that the best interests of the child prevail.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u282	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u283	As our colleague has just said, your argument on periodic payments for departments is not admissible. From our point of view, we must continue to discuss the means of the departments since ESA and the protection of children are departmental responsibilities – that is the problem. On the other hand, the rapporteur, you are afraid that our amendment will make the law gossip, but to clarify the notion of a reasonable time limit would instead strengthen it, since this concept has not yet been included in it. In our view, including it in the text would give more weight to the judge's office. That is why these amendments have their full meaning.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u284	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u285	Article 9 deals with family assistants. We know that our country is sorely lacking, whereas it is a humane solution for the reception of children. "The ESA reference, I had to see it twice! Most often, they communicate by e-mail or telephone. We all live in a very great loneliness": these words of a family assistant show how central the question of their loneliness and isolation is. They cannot rely on the ESA's reference system, which is overflowing and creeping under the record. Valérie, a family assistant, said to me: "I had a kid tearing her skin. She was typing everyone, as soon as a kid came in, she was banging on it, even typing on her sister! It had become unbearable: my husband no longer held, my children no longer held, neither did I hold, but we had no support. When we called the ASE, we were told that things seemed to be going well in our family. Although we were saying that this was not the case and calling for help, it took months and months for us to finally be supported. But finally, he was an interim, and the ESA reference has changed again. » How can we get out of this loneliness? This is an essential problem! In my corner, I was told that in the past there were speaking groups of family assistants with psychologists.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u286	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u287	Because of lack of resources, these meetings, which allowed us to get out of loneliness, have disappeared. Family assistants could be taken out of their loneliness by another means: recognition of their work. This recognition goes through salary, but not just. When the children's judge is studying a case, he listens to the ESA reference, which often does not know the child. I know of cases in which the referent had not seen the child in a year and yet she is the one who has to testify...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u288	We have to close.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u289	On the other hand, the family assistant is excluded from the decision.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u290	Mrs Véronique Hammerer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u291	Mrs Parmentier-Lecocq joined my speech. Article 9 will increase the remuneration of family assistants. This is in line with the logic we have been defending since the beginning of the quinquennium: emancipating through work, especially those who, through their commitment, serve the community. First of all, I would like to express our gratitude to them for their commitment to several tens of thousands of children who, thanks to them, benefit from a roof and the entourage of adults who can support them on a daily basis. There was an urgent need to raise the remuneration of these women and men, who were so essential, yet every year fewer. Promised as part of the National Strategy for Child Prevention and Protection 2020-2022, this salary upgrading will give life to families who give their time to save, repair and accompany young lives. [[Ms. Monique Limon applauds]] I also welcome the amendment proposed by the Government to provide professional support to family assistants and to integrate them into a multidisciplinary team, not only for the benefit of the child but also, of course, for their benefit.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u292	Mrs Perrine Goulet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u293	Child protection is not limited to governance measures or legal advances, even if they are absolutely necessary; Child protection is also the field, those who devote themselves every day to supporting children in child welfare. Article 9 enshrines the recognition of a key profession of child protection: that of family assistants. We must welcome this important step forward, because if ten years ago there were just over 50,000 people engaged as family assistants, they are just 40,000. The attractiveness of this profession is a problem, no one can deny it. Thus, beyond article 9, the remuneration of family assistants will have to be standardized. When it comes to child protection jobs, I can't help but think of educators, who seem to me to be the most forgotten of the bill. Yet, ladies and gentlemen, educators specializing in child protection are the cornerstone of child protection: to be an educator is, above all, to build an individual project consistent with the minor's journey and his or her family unit. [[Mrs Maud Petit applauds]] There was an urgent need to legislate on the job of family assistant, and it was equally urgent to do so with regard to educators. In this sector, many decisions are of a regulatory nature, so it will only be up to you, Mr. Secretary of State, to move forward on this area as well.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u294	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u295	We address the subject of family assistants – if I say family assistants, it is because this profession is, like many others, very much carried out by women and, like others, particularly devalued in society, not only in terms of wages, even though these highly feminized occupations are historically associated with the idea of a supplement wage. It goes without saying that it is necessary to upgrade the salary conditions of the family assistants – their remuneration as well as their maintenance allowances. I hope that this issue will be addressed in the consultations which will take place until December. Above all, beyond wage issues, family assistants say they need to be accompanied, heard, to participate fully in multidisciplinary teams; It's one of their main shortcomings. [[Mr. Guillaume Chiche applauds]] On the other hand, another issue seems to me to be at the heart of the dysfunctions and crisis of social assistance for children: the attachment and place of the biological link in society. Recent debates on the bioethics bill have shown how this link continues to give rise to a traditional and conservative vision that is now at the heart of our questioning, rightly so: ESA's "nouns" have succeeded DDASS's "tatas" but they continue to be intimated not to be attached to children. How can we explain to these ladies, who are going to take care of fractured kids, that we must not cling to them? I can't believe it. In order to improve their profession, it is necessary to consider the relationship, attachment and family as a social construction.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u296	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u297	Mr Philippe Naillet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u298	I'll be very brief. First of all, we can only encourage and support any provision to improve the situation of family assistants, especially since for many of them, as we know, commitment is at the limit of volunteering. In La Réunion, for example, where 2768 children are now welcomed by ESA, all this will have financial consequences: studies show that improving the remuneration of family assistants – a necessary measure – would cost departments between 0 and almost 2.5 million euros, depending on their size. Therefore, Secretary of State, my questions are very simple. On the one hand, will the financial situation of the departments be taken into account? Are you planning to adjust the overall operating allocation (GF) or increase tobacco taxation? On the other hand, will the departments benefit from training support? Your answers are essential: the effectiveness of the measures we want for family assistants depends on them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u299	We come to Amendment No 568, on which I am seized by the Group of the European People's Party (La République en marche) of a request for a public vote. Amendment No 658 is also the subject of such a request, also on the part of the moving Republic Group, which has also requested an electronic vote on Article 9. Votes are announced in the National Assembly. I call Mrs Perrine Goulet to support Amendment No. 568.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u300	The shortage of family assistants promises to be all the more important as the demographics of the profession reveal that many will retire in the coming years. The draft law provides for a reduction in the age of departure, by way of derogation, so that they can follow beyond the majority the young people they are in charge of; However, the pool is sparsely populated. That is why I propose to extend the cumulation of activities, already possible in the private sector, but uncommon. Indeed, how can we convince private employers – we will call them "principal employers" – to accept that their employee is also a family assistant? The public sector poses another problem, which the Secretary of State pointed out in committee: unless exceptions are made, the cumulation of activities is prohibited. Article 25 septies of the Act of 13 July 1983 on the rights and obligations of civil servants states: "The civil servant shall devote all his professional activity to the tasks entrusted to him. He may not engage in any kind of gainful private activity in a professional capacity." There is a wealth of case law in this area, but it systematically deals with specific cases: hotel management, advice, etc. [[Ms Albane Gaillot and Mr Guillaume Chiche applaud]] Family assistants carry out a mission of general interest, so it would be good if officials who wish to do so could also fulfil it. I am thinking in particular of teachers, whose pace of work seems compatible with the care of children. I took note of the difficulties that you pointed out by adding to this amendment a useful clarification which was not included in its version submitted to the commission: the fact that a decree must specify the provisions allowing such cumulation, in order not to harm a part of the public service. It is important to open up this possibility to civil servants: even if, by definition, they will not be full-time family assistants, their reinforcement would provide some respite to those who are.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u301	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u302	The Social Affairs Committee rejected this amendment by a short majority.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u303	Oh...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u304	For my part, as a former teacher, I will be in favour of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u305	Ah! Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u306	The occupation of family assistant could be open to civil servants, particularly those who work part-time. Consequently, the committee's opinion was unfavourable, and the opinion was favourable in its own right.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u307	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u308	Unfavorable opinion. Family assistant, he's not a sub-occupier; Professor, it is not a profession that is half practiced – I am speaking under the supervision of teachers or former teachers who are on these benches, and whose rapporteur is not the only one. I have always heard that their working time is not limited to the time of attendance in the institution: they have other tasks, such as the correction of copies. On the other hand, I am sorry, but the law and the jurisprudence are what they are, so I do not see us changing the general status of the public service at the turn of an amendment. I will come to general comments later, as the President did not see that I asked him to speak after the Members on the item. In the meantime, there is indeed a lack of recognition and attractiveness of the family assistant's job: this text aims at remedying this in part and, in the context of a forthcoming amendment, I will inform you of other measures which do not fall within the scope of the law, resulting from consultations with family assistants. Again, it is not the possibility of a cumulation of activities for civil servants that will be the solution to the problem of the shortage of family assistants due to the low attractiveness of this profession.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u309	Mrs Monique Limon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u310	We all agree that there is a shortage of family assistants and that more will be needed in the future. Many of them will reach retirement age and their replacement will be complicated for several reasons: the profession attracts less and less, it is not valued, its image is not good. A huge amount of communication work will therefore be needed to make some people want to become family assistants. In these circumstances, why would a part-time employee not supplement his or her work and income with such an activity? However, we cannot introduce this cumulation now, by way of amendment, to include it in this bill without prior negotiation with the social partners, without a clear idea of its consequences. That is why I am against this amendment, while reiterating the need to continue working on the replacement of family assistants close to retirement.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u311	Mrs Karine Lebon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u312	I agree with the Secretary of State. The situation is complicated, but the extension of the cumulation of activities to the public sector is not the solution. This would detract from both the work of a family assistant and a teacher, which does not only take place between eight and sixteen hours, but involves many additional tasks that society does not perceive. The adoption of this amendment would seriously damage the image of professors and civil servants in general.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u313	Mrs Perrine Goulet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u314	I didn't think I would take the floor again, but I wouldn't want anyone to believe that I consider teachers and family assistants to be sub-professionals! That's what you let hear, Secretary of State: away from me this idea! I talked about the teachers – not to mention only them – for two reasons. First, I knew a teacher who would have wished only to work part-time to accompany children as a family assistant: it is regrettable that she was unable to follow this personal choice. Second, being a family assistant is, of course, a trade in its own right; But if there are children who require a full-time presence with them, others, who arrived there because there was no one to collect them after the death of their parents, have normal schooling, can stay in the daycare, in the canteen, like all the children of France. In this case, nothing prevents the family assistant from working. It can already do so in the private sector: why ban it in the public sector? Again, that's too bad. As for Mrs Limon, I agree with her that there is still some clarification to be made: it is with this in mind that I have proposed a decree that would make all this clear. To open this possibility would not insult anyone, but would create families of respite. Today, family assistants cannot benefit from their leave, for lack of other families to take over! Officials who wish to do so could contribute, as well as to children, while retaining their profession.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u315	The Secretary of State has the floor, unless he prefers to speak last.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u316	I don't want to be rude to anyone, but just to repeat that there is a shortage of family assistants and a problem of attractiveness of the trade. Therefore, we can ask ourselves the question of cumulation – both of its promotion in the private sector, where it is possible and little used, and of its extension to the public. However, one of the main principles of the French civil service is not called into question by an amendment on child protection! This is the problem; Excuse me! I do not object to a reflection on the subject; I even put my questions to you during the committee's examination of the text. Mrs Faucillon said this: consultations have taken place with the family assistants and, once again, I will inform you of the progress made in the areas of training, the reengineering of the diploma, the upgrading of allowances which you mentioned. We continue to discuss with each other: we can offer them to discuss the issue of the cumulation of activities, which, to my surprise, they had not seized – neither the family assistants, nor the public or private employers. However, I repeat, non-cumulation is one of the fundamental principles of our country's public service, in any case since the post-war period, unless it is mistaken. If we want to call it into question, there will have to be substantive work, not an amendment discussed between midday and midday: I say it with all the sincere friendship and all the respect I have for the family assistants.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u317	Come on, now we're voting!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u318	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u319	What bothers me is that this ESA bill has not given rise to any reflection on the status and income of the family assistant.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u320	Oh! Finally!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u321	I hear we'll make the job more attractive through communication: that's not true! This will only be possible thanks to a real recognition of the profession; communication will then come. Without a well-defined status and income, we will not make it. In terms of salary revalorisation, Secretary of State, you are doing the minimum: we are ready to support this progress, but the problem is not there. You want family assistants who have a place and who are not sent a child to take care of them to receive remuneration. The places are missing: those who have them are immediately filled. They are even offered to welcome more children than their approval allows! That's the reality! The questions that arise are, therefore, the following: how can family assistants breathe, take their leave, not grow under work? How are they considered by the judge? The answers are not found in this text and I fear that no amendment will incorporate them. I regret that because it would be crucial for the ESA to have more family assistants and that they are recognized today.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u322	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u323	I will not vote in favour of Perrine Goulet's amendment, because I consider it an appeal amendment. Moreover, it has been supported in a sometimes clumsy way, particularly with regard to teachers. On the other hand, its content could give rise to an interesting discussion, although it is not a question of remedying the shortage of family assistants:...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u324	Indeed!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u325	...for this, the leads are provided to us by François Ruffin. With regard to pay recognition, the Secretary of State could, in the framework of the consultations, go beyond the measures already announced. On the other hand, I repeat, family assistants should be better integrated into multidisciplinary teams, less isolated, and their profession less bureaucratized – you have to read what they are asked to do! There is also the issue of violence, which is just beginning to be dealt with and which requires real vigilance. That working families can accommodate children, I believe it is possible, but the deprofessionalisation of this reception is a real project...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u326	Yes.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u327	[[Mr François Ruffin applauds]] ... and cannot be done by amendment. Again, therefore, this is an interesting appeal amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u328	Mr Guillaume Chiche has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u329	Let us move away from the arguments of saying that, according to some, there would be trades and sub-trades.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u330	There are no sub-trades.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u331	Each and every one of us considers that all these trades are real trades, which require total involvement. In the private sector, the activity of family assistant is allowed to be combined with another job. I do not believe that Mr Goulet's amendment fully addresses the shortage of family assistants we know, but it could help to improve the situation. For my part, I will vote for it. Contrary to what you have said, Secretary of State, it seems to me that it is worth changing what you call a fundamental principle of the public service, even at the turn of an amendment discussed between 12:15 and 13:00: it is better to increase the capacity of families rather than to continue in the coming weeks, months and years to place children inappropriately, in homes or even in hotels.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u332	Mrs Isabelle Santiago has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u333	When do we vote here?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u334	I am convinced that it will be necessary, in a second stage, to open this debate: those who have a job, in the public service or in the private sector, must be able to accommodate children and live as a normal family in which the parents go to work in the morning. But beyond the shortage that we are experiencing, it seems to me important to stress that even by opening up the recruitment process widely and having the necessary funding, we are faced with the difficulty of finding candidates. This is the case, for example, in Île-de-France, where applicants' housing does not always allow children to be accommodated. In this region, recruitment is therefore carried out in rural and remote areas, which poses difficulties for the monitoring of children, as well as at the time of their education and integration. This is a subject on which we must move forward. A first lead is emerging, but we will have to continue the work.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u335	I propose that you proceed to the vote by public vote on Amendment No 568.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u336	He's withdrawn, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u337	He's gone! If we'd known before...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u338	It's democracy!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u339	The Secretary of State has the floor to support Amendment No. 658.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u340	I will take this opportunity to return to some of the comments that have been made and to share with you the information that I promised you in committee. I cannot allow you to say, Mr Ruffin, that the part concerning family assistants is not the result of a thorough and concerted work. A working group on the subject was set up as soon as the consultations started in April 2019. The strategy for the prevention and protection of children had shown that such consultations were necessary. You are asking, Mrs Faucillon, that the State go further in the remuneration of family assistants, but I would remind you that he is not their employer! For the past year, we have played the facilitators, the masters of ceremonies, by putting around the table the associations and the unions of family assistants – which I greet – as well as the public employers – the departments – and the private ones, like Nexem. I heard a few things that bothered me. I care a lot, like many of you no doubt, about family reception. But let us beware, Mr Chiche: let us make sure that we do not oppose one type of reception to another, as you did at the turn of a remark, and that we do not establish a hierarchy between family assistants, homes and places of life.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u341	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u342	In fact, no mode of reception is better than another.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u343	It's hard to say that hotels are better!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u344	Don't be smart, Mr. Chiche. What matters is the interests of the child. Each child corresponds to a type of reception.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u345	No matter: accommodation in a hotel is a scandal!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u346	I, who cares a lot about the family reception, was very marked by a trip that I made to a place of life in Tarn-et-Garonne. You will tell me that this case is not representative, but I will tell you about a young girl I met there: she had been adopted abroad by French parents, who had finally abandoned her in France. So she had suffered a double abandonment – it doesn't happen every day, I grant it to you. When she was taken care of by ESA, she was placed in foster care. I let you imagine how this could have happened, and what the notion of family means to her! In his case, foster care in a family is simply unthinkable. This is just one example among others, which aims to emphasize that the types of reception should not be opposed. Every child has different needs. You are right, Mr Ruffin, these are human issues and the isolation you are referring to is indeed a central topic. But it must be said: it is not only related to the fact that the child's referent would have too many files to handle. This may happen, but issues of professional posture and culture also come into play – I see that Mrs Santiago agrees. Some ESA social workers and services do not necessarily have the relationship they should have with family assistants and do not always show respect for this fine job. A somewhat strange triangular relationship is sometimes established between the biological family, the family assistant and ESA – which refers to ideological debates that cross the child protection sector. I shall return to this central issue of isolation, which is precisely the subject of Amendment No 658, as soon as I have finished answering the questions put to me, namely that of Mr Naillet on La Réunion. On my way to the island, I was able to discuss their profession with family assistants. As part of the contract, the State will allocate more than EUR 4 million to this department, which will be intended, among other things, for the training of professionals and, if my memories are correct, for the creation of family reception places for fratries. On this subject, which we mentioned a lot yesterday, we often talk about children's villages, but we must not forget that family assistants can also welcome fratries; This is the type of reception that we will develop in La Réunion. Finally, Mrs Goulet, I cannot let you say that the other social workers are the great forgeters of this text. Everything we do, we do for the children as well as for them, and I have had the opportunity to say that we would also start a reflection on the quality of life at work of other social workers. It contains a number of provisions of a legislative nature arising from consultations with all stakeholders, in particular in article 9. As I promised you in committee, I would like to share with you the other proposals and recommendations of the working group concerning the family assistants that we want to put in place as early as the beginning of the 2022 school year, to complete the law. The first step will be to restructure initial and continuing training in order to take better account of developments in the profession, in particular with regard to children with special needs – a subject that has been mentioned above – as well as that of the profiles of children, whose needs are increasingly known to be at the frontier of social and medico-social life. We will also move from the state diploma of family assistant, DEAF, from level V to level IV, that of the baccalaureate, subject to an assessment of the impacts for employers, while making the presence on the exam mandatory. There is general agreement on the need for greater professionalization and skill development of all family assistants. As you pointed out, Mrs Faucillon, these are more than 90% of women, even though the profession has been masculinizing a little lately. On the other hand, the ageing of the profession, with an average age of 53, raises the problem of retirement. We will also pay more for the care of children with special needs by revaluing the ad hoc allowance, which is not a legislative but a regulatory one. This adjustment is in addition to the provisions on the basic allowance provided for in Article 9, which you have adopted. Finally, we will include family assistants in the discussions for complementary social protection: private employers already offering this benefit, we will ensure that public employers do the same. With regard to training – a subject of interest to you, rightly – we will implement the Working Group's proposal that compulsory initial training should include an initial probationary period longer than at present and provide for immersion time in at least one of the various child protection services or the disability sector, as well as in a family care service. The aim is, in particular, to cross cultures. The working group also proposes to encourage a period of joint training between the family assistant and other social workers: there are problems of lack of knowledge or even mistrust between them. Detention of DEAF must become more frequent, which, according to the working group, means that preparation for examinations is mandatory. That is what we wish to strive for. In addition, as part of the job check-up, it will be necessary to verify that the family assistants have benefited from training. The second major chapter of the working group's conclusions deals with the development of knowledge and good practices: the group found that very interesting things were being done in many territories and that it might be beneficial to ask the High Health Authority to accompany us on this subject. Finally, the aim is to promote the integration of the family assistant into the multidisciplinary educational team in order to counter the isolation rightly mentioned by Mr Ruffin. It is important for family assistants to be able to rely on a close and privileged relationship with the members of the multidisciplinary team who contribute to the child's follow-up, in particular with the child's focal point, who must be available and trained in family care. In order to strengthen the support and professional support of family assistants, who must be integrated into a multidisciplinary team, the group proposes to add a legislative provision to the Code of Social Action and Families. This is the purpose of Amendment No 658, which aims to strengthen the integration of family assistants into the team and provides that the employer shall provide support and professional support to the assistants he employs. To this end, the family assistant is integrated into a team of qualified professionals in the social, educational, psychological and medical fields. A paragraph is amended accordingly: the words "the professional support of the family assistants he employs and the assessment of foster situations" are replaced by the words "the assessment of the quality of the care of the children taken care of by the family assistants he employs". [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] I apologise for this rather long presentation, but I wanted you to have a full view of the re-evaluation of the profession. It is not only financial, in article 9, but also through training, professionalization, upgrading of the care of children with disabilities and training of family assistants in the care of such children.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u347	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u348	Very favourable opinion. The amendment responds to the expectations expressed by the family assistants during our exchanges on the ground.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u349	Mrs Stella Dupont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u350	I would have liked to speak about the previous amendment, but it is also very good for me. Thank you, Secretary of State, for that clarification. We all agree here on the need to improve the status, professional support, professionalisation and remuneration of these trades and family assistants in particular. My question is about their social protection. A few months ago, a professional came to tell me about it. As a result of a health problem, she had to take sick leave and then undergo surgery, which involved six months of work interruption. It is a long time, when you switch sharply from a monthly remuneration of around 1500 euros net to 440 euros, due to a situation that is not controlled. We must therefore deal with this issue as well. I don't know if you've considered it, Mr. Secretary of State; Anyway, I didn't hear you mention it. There's an emergency. It is difficult to imagine that these professionals, who we need so much to support children and adults with disabilities, can find themselves overnight in such precarious conditions because of inadequate social protection. I first thought that there was a mistake. So I did some research, to check it out, and I found that the family assistant I was telling you about ended up with 440 euros of income because she was on sick leave. This is a serious problem that needs to be dealt with very urgently.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u351	Mr Guillaume Chiche has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u352	I do not oppose the different forms of reception and placement. On the other hand, I note that, for the United Nations, foster care is the most protective placement. So that's the one I'm trying to promote. [[Protests on the benches of the LaREM group]] Secretary of State, I invite you to be more humble and calm. I do not accept that a member of the Government should say to me in the Chamber: "Don't be smart". No, I'm not being smart!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u353	That's enough now!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u354	Don't be smart, you!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u355	We didn't get mad!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u356	I am particularly embarrassed by the use of communication. Secretary of State, I'm sorry to tell you, you lack sincerity...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u357	Oh, there!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u358	... when you announce on social networks the prohibition of placements at the hotel: that's not true, they will remain possible for emergency placements. You claim that the text improves the condition of social workers while under article 15, you make them substitutes for the prefecture...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u359	That's Article 13! Don't exaggerate!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u360	... by asking them to provide all the information they have collected about unaccompanied minors. With a great deal of communication on the social networks, you call for the end of the dry outings while they remain in the hands of the departmental councils. There is nothing to do with it, indeed. Secretary of State, I recommend more work and a little less statements.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u361	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u362	I shouldn't have told you that, and I beg your pardon, Mr. Chiche. I obviously do not share your other comments and I do not accept that you throw me in the face that I do not work enough.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u363	That's not what I said!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u364	Yes, I do!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u365	You said it, but let's stay with the apology I presented to you. Mrs Dupont, as I have pointed out in my long presentation, measures to improve the status of family assistants, mutual societies and the maintenance of wages will be mentioned in the discussions on supplementary social protection for them. Many private employers have already introduced it – 12% of family assistants report to a private employer. On the other hand, we must move forward in this direction for the vast majority of them who are under public status because, you are right, some situations are not acceptable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u366	I put to the vote Amendment No 658.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u367	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 49 Number of votes cast 49 Absolute majority 25 For adoption 49 Against 0
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u368	I have before me two amendments, Nos 635 and 464, which may be submitted to a joint debate. The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 635.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u369	In response to a request made at the hearings, the amendment aims to open up the possibility for associations to organise emergency and short-term receptions, which are now reserved for the department alone. It is a small drop of water to expand the emergency reception and limit the placement in hotels, in accordance with our discussions on Article 3.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u370	Mrs Isabelle Santiago has the floor to support Amendment No. 464.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u371	It's almost identical.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u372	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u373	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u374	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u375	Opinion in favour of Amendment No 635 and request that Amendment No 464 be withdrawn in favour of Amendment No 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u376	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u377	Do the family assistants have to provide emergency care? The question deserves to be asked, but it is not. To replace the hotel with the family assistants is functionalism: it is a matter of remedying the future shortage. In doing so, you disorganize what should be a reception route: the CDEF – departmental centres for children and the family – provide emergency care before the child is referred to a home, a return to his family or a foster family. The emergency reception by family assistants can be considered in the context of a serious reflection on their role, but not in a purely functionalistic aim to manage a shortage.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u378	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u379	Mr Ruffin, this is already the case for family assistants working in the public sector, 90% of them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u380	Mrs Isabelle Santiago has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u381	[[Ms. Monique Limon applauds]] The emergency reception is not just for adults, young adults or adolescents, far from it. The departments have worked extensively on emergency care in nurseries. Today, in emergency situations, as was the case during the health crisis, we can, fortunately, in several departments, count on nurseries and family assistants who are trained on the arrival of infants. We have an opportunity to legislate strongly on the subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u382	I call Mr Guillaume Chiche to support Amendment No. 338.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u383	It provides for the possibility of combining a family assistant contract with a job, but perhaps it is satisfied? If you confirm it to me, Madam rapporteur, I will withdraw it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u384	I'll confirm that.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u385	Amendment No 462 by Mrs Isabelle Santiago is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u386	The rapporteur's amendment No 192 is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u387	I call Mr Philippe Meyer to support Amendment No. 692.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u388	It is proposed that the family assistant and his public employer may agree on the final termination or termination of the contract. The general legislation concerning public servants seems to provide that the contractual break also applies to family assistants, but the Social Action and Family Code does not expressly envisage this possibility. Such a break would avoid the dismissal of an assistant who has ceased his or her employment after having demonstrated a high quality of professional commitment throughout his or her life. I know some examples in my territory of separation from office after the adoption of the children in care. This is a common sense amendment, in the interests of family assistants and the employer.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u389	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u390	Your amendment is satisfied because the provisions on contractual breakdown already apply to contractual family assistants under public law.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u391	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u392	It is indeed satisfied by the decree of 31 December 2019 on the procedure of contractual breakdown in the civil service.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u393	Amendment No 463 by Mrs Isabelle Santiago is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u394	I put Rule 9 to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u395	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 47 Number of votes cast 46 Absolute majority 24 For adoption 46 Against 0
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u396	Amendments Nos 579 and 578 by Mrs Annie Chapelier, introducing an additional article after Article 9, are defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u397	Mr François Ruffin has the floor to support Amendment No. 377.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u398	We have just voted with you for Article 9, but it does not solve the fundamental problem of family assistants: non-recognition. As you said, family assistants are not always recognized by the ESA as real professionals; They are considered to be sub-employees. Whether children call them "tata" or "nanou", or, when these terms are used by other social workers, it is quite different. Our role is to require the recognition of family assistants, at several stages. First, when the child arrives, why is the family assistant who is to follow him not informed of what he has experienced – was he burned by cigarettes? Was he attacked in the shower? Is he very disturbed? What are his diseases? Such data shall not be communicated to the Commission. Then, when the child is taken away from them, I am described with rather lunar scenes: a family assistant had been looking after a kid since he was a baby, photos from childhood were displayed in the living room; From week to week, she learns that the child will be taken away from her without being questioned. During the procedure, we listen to the words of the ASE referent who sometimes does not know the child, who did not see him regularly because there are too many files to deal with – this is a fact. On the other hand, the family assistant, the one who is most in contact with the child, is not heard, which the amendment seeks to remedy. This reminds me of another profession: the accompanying student in a situation of disability (AESH). While he had links with the child inside the school, he was not associated with the educational team and had no right to talk to parents who could not inform him of the child's suffering. This is a problem that has been partially resolved in this Parliament – it is not miraculous, but we have made some progress, I grant it to you. Similarly, there is a need to improve the recognition of the place of the family assistant at all stages. From the reception of the child to the departure of the child through the proceedings before the judge, she must be involved in the decisions because she is the one who knows the child best.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u399	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u400	Mr Ruffin, I fully agree with you that the family assistant needs to be better heard, and that is what comes out of the consultations. I would like to add a nuance to your observation regarding children's judges. The one I met receives the kindergarten assistants. As for your amendment, he is largely satisfied, first of all, with the Government's amendment to Article 9 as it provides the following clarifications: "The employer shall provide professional support and support to the family assistants he employs. To this end, the family assistant is integrated into a team of qualified professionals in the social, educational, psychological and medical fields. In addition, your amendment and that of Mrs Goulet, referring to the additional article after Article 3, on the issue of shared secrecy. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u401	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u402	Same opinion for the same reasons.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u403	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u404	The Government's amendment you mentioned is very vague, and it is not by sectarianism that I say it because I voted in favour. Who will be part of the multidisciplinary team? Implementation modalities remain vague. If you really want to make room for family assistants, you must indicate how they will be taken into account at each stage: they will have to receive information before welcoming a child; they must be interviewed before the child leaves their home; they will have to be consulted systematically when there is a passage before the judge. Madam rapporteur, you are well aware that everyone will act as they please if we do not lock the device further: it will be applied in some places and not in others and it will be the bazaar. To provide clarification is the prerequisite for better consideration of the words of the family assistants and the knowledge they have of children. I'm sorry you didn't want to go in that direction. I regret this for the family assistants themselves because it is a key point to ensure their recognition and allow for more tomorrow; I regret it for the children because they could provide valuable insight into their journey and the project for the child.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u405	Amendment No 232 by Mr François Ruffin is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u406	I call Mrs Danièle Obono to support Amendment No. 379.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u407	This amendment, which we resubmitted for the sitting after defending it in committee, proposes to launch an experiment aimed at setting up initial or ad hoc training courses for family assistants in order to make them aware of the problems of attention deficit, with or without hyperactivity, autistic spectrum disorder (ASD) and other forms of disability. We believe that this is necessary in two ways. On the one hand, we know that some of these disorders and disabilities may be ignored, leading to the placement of children after a poor assessment. On the other hand, because of a lack of training, knowledge and resources, family assistants may feel overwhelmed when they receive these children. It will, of course, be a matter of clarifying the nature of the training and devoting the necessary resources to it, hence our proposal for an experimental measure.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u408	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u409	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u410	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u411	The amendment is satisfactory: this training will even be generalised through the reengineering of the diploma and the upgrading of the allowance.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u412	Mrs Véronique Hammerer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u413	In general, it is the local authorities and associations in each department that employ family assistants in the context of child welfare. Nevertheless, we believe that the safety of children must be the responsibility of a national public policy. As the national strategy for prevention and protection of children had shown, there was a real need to centralize information on host staff. Indeed, a family assistant who has been withdrawn from his or her approval – for ill-treatment, poor living conditions or poor reception – can quite well file a new application in another department. The safety of the child is therefore not always guaranteed, while the use of placements with family assistants varies widely between departments. Hence the need for global control. It is in the interests of Article 10 that a threefold guarantee is in place: for children, first of all, so that they can receive them in the best possible conditions; for those welcoming, then, who may have a national approval; Finally, employers who will be able to ensure the validity of professional approvals. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] I stress that family assistants are doing a remarkable job with children. It is our responsibility to exercise their profession in the best possible conditions and to ensure that children are provided with unimpeded care.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u414	Mrs Perrine Goulet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u415	[[The rapporteur applauds]] On the occasion of the work carried out for several months on child protection and before the fact-finding mission, I was very surprised to learn that a family assistant caring for children in the care of two different employers could be suspended for one and retain the other, even though there were suspicions of violence against the first child. I welcome the creation of a single national accreditation register, and it was more than time for such a centralisation. This will allow employers – departmental councils or associations, who can also directly recruit family assistants – to know whether a person has already been suspended from registration. This file will not only be crucial for the safety of children, but it will bring an improvement for everyone.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u416	Amendment No 386 by Mr François Ruffin is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u417	I call Mr François Ruffin to support Amendment No. 385.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u418	Tragic facts have been reported to us by a family assistant and as it happens to be the president of the National Federation of Family Assistants (FNAF), you may also be aware of them, Mr. Secretary of State. A girl is kidnapped from her family assistant, without any investigation. She's crying, she's screaming, she's doing very badly. We then turn to the family assistant to come and rescue her and she declines since she was told that she could no longer take care of her. And what happened? The little girl committed suicide. What conclusion can be drawn from this? It is important that a minimum investigation be carried out before family assistants are subjected to sanctions that may have an impact on the children in their care. That is the meaning of this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u419	What do we do with the child during the time of the investigation?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u420	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u421	I understand all the more your request, Mr Ruffin, that the question of the presumption of innocence has often been put forward by the family assistants during the hearings. However, article L. 421-6 of the Code of Social Action and Families already provides that approval may be suspended only in the event of an emergency. Your amendment is therefore satisfactory. As the withdrawal of approval is often due to suspicions of ill-treatment, it is important, in the name of the precautionary principle, to remove the child before the investigation takes place. I don't see how it could be otherwise, otherwise the child would be put at risk. In addition, Article 9 provides a new guarantee, maintaining remuneration during the period of suspension of authorisation, which I believe is very important. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u422	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u423	I know this story, which was told to me by Annick Moine whom I greet as well as Marie-Noëlle Petitgas, who also plays an important role in defending the interests of family assistants. Your amendment is satisfactory, Mr Ruffin: there must be an investigation which falls within the remit of the joint departmental advisory committee. And as the rapporteur pointed out, with the adoption of Article 9, you have made possible an important step forward which reinforces respect for the presumption of innocence while ensuring the protection of the child: the wages of family assistants will now be maintained for four months in case of suspicion of ill-treatment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u424	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u425	I understand that this is a very sensitive subject. I would like to say that our position is not lax: our previous amendment, which we have defended without argument, was intended, as the FNAF requests, to strengthen the control of family assistants by providing for unannounced visits. Our approach is therefore balanced. It seems to me, Madam rapporteur, that your argument is contradictory: you say that the amendment is already satisfied and that you are against it because the proposed procedure would be disturbing for the child. On the other hand, Mr Secretary of State, you are referring to the role of the Joint Committee, but you know very well that in reality things are not going this way. That is the whole problem of the gap between what we are voting here and what we are seeing on the ground. Too many are the committees provided for in the texts, but they do not really exist in practice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u426	Mrs Sandrine Mörch has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u427	I would also like to hear about what works well, especially in foster families. To that end, I will resume a testimony we had gathered as part of the fact-finding mission of which Perrine Goulet was rapporteur. After her mother died when she was 6 years old, Maeva was placed with her brother in a home and then both were entrusted to the same foster family: "The host family was obviously a chance for us. We've come across a wonderful host family that I love very much, which is my second family today. I am the godmother of my brother's first daughter, my brother is the godfather of my brother's son. We're a family. It's my second family, it's not my parents: I don't call them dad and mom, but Jean-Jacques and Henriette. It is my anchor and it has been for many years. If I hadn't had the tenderness of my foster family, his infinite patience in the face of two very angry children, I certainly wouldn't be there today. They have been helpful in many ways. I know that the fact that we were placed at home helped them build themselves like we built ourselves. I was on the right track: I had this foster family, I was a good student, so was my brother. I'm studying a lot, I'm very ambitious. » [[Ms. Stella Dupont applauds]] In the practice of family assistant, the ties created are sometimes so strong that they last far beyond the majority of the child. To allow family assistants to extend the age of their retirement in order to retain the custody of the children they care for is to recognize the special nature of this profession, the strength of the ties that can be almost subsidiary in nature, and above all the commitment of these professionals to the success of the boys and girls entrusted to them. This is an important step forward proposed by Article 11 and I thank you, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u428	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u429	I disagree fully with this article 11. If you want to push the retirement age for family assistants to 67, it's because it's missing.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u430	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u431	[[Exclaims on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Yes, I do! If it is to give them the opportunity to look after children up to their majority, which I understand very well, it is sufficient to provide that the child will be 18 years of age when the family assistant has 65.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u432	This isn't real life, Mr. Ruffin!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u433	It's obvious, though! Why set the age limit at 67? Why not 69 or 71? Who tells you that all children will be adults when their family assistant is 67 years old?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u434	It's volunteerism!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u435	Yes, it's a choice!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u436	[[Protests on the benches of the LaREM group]] It seems to me quite possible to choose the family by making the child's 18th birthday coincide with the 65th birthday of the family assistants. It does not seem good to me to push back the retirement age, which is more by making emotional blackmail. But perhaps you intend to start the reform of pensions, which seems to me to be a somewhat twisted bias!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u437	We're talking about kids here!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u438	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-08-E1007.u439	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Further discussion of the draft law on the protection of children. The meeting is adjourned.
