ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u1	The next item is the oral questions without debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u2	Mr Stéphane Baudu, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 1293, concerning the competence of the Group of the European People's Party (GEMAPI).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u3	My question, to which I associate our colleague Sabine Thillaye, Member of Parliament for Indre-et-Loire, concerns the implementation of the competence to manage aquatic environments and to prevent floods, known as GEMAPI, which is now the responsibility of the public institutions for inter-communal cooperation, the EPCIs. The latter will have to take over the management of the state dykes as of 1 January 2024. This deadline is of great concern to the IBDs who will have to assume new political, legal and financial responsibilities. They will be responsible not only for the maintenance of the works but also for making the necessary investments to improve the protection of the population against the risk of flooding. In the case of the longest river in France, the Loire public institution estimates these investments to be more than 350 million euros for just over 900 kilometres of dyke. Communities anticipate this deadline by planning a pilotage on a relevant scale that, for rivers, is well beyond the perimeter of each CIPE. On the basin of the middle Loire, the option of a delegation of competence to the benefit of the Loire public establishment seems to hold the rope. If, on this issue of governance, it seems that we are making progress, the question of financial resources remains complete. The EPCIs, especially the smaller ones, are concerned about their ability to bear this new burden. For some, this cost could affect their ability to maintain their level of service to the population, including in a scenario where they could benefit from subsidies up to 80 per cent of the expenditure. Therefore, EPCIs need to be reassured. They expect the State to take account of the specific nature of the systems of containment and protection of the Loire, which means calling for solidarity that goes beyond the scale of the basin-versant. In these circumstances, several questions arise: what support does the State intend to provide for effective and relevant governance of the management of containment systems? What guarantee can the State provide as to the level of financial aid that will be available to the EPCIs concerned? How does the State intend to involve the EPCIs in the preparation and governance of the future Loire plan for the period 2021-2027? Finally, in view of the obvious need to mobilize national solidarity, is the State ready to match this management transfer with a transfer of human and financial resources?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u4	The Minister responsible for the city has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u5	As you know, community-owned aquatic management and flood prevention skills are very important in helping to adapt territories to climate change. The fifth Loire Plan is based on a common ambition of the State and the communities to pursue action in partnership, in a close and resolute manner, and of which flood prevention is one of the strategic objectives. The State's financial contribution to the contract for an interregional plan État-regions Loire, the CPIER Loire, is to a large extent through the Fonds de prévention des risques naturelles majores, the FPRNM, known as the Fonds Barnier, through which the financing, shared with the EPCI and the local authorities, is provided to strengthen the dikes of the Loire and to raise the level of protection. These state financings are significant: €67.3 million for the period 2015-2020 and €78.6 million for the period 2021-2027. The ERDF Interregional Operational Programme – European Regional Development Fund – Loire, of which all the regions of the basin are involved, is the second lever for operational declination of the plan. As you point out, it is up to the elected representatives to define the organization adapted to their territory in order to exercise the competence of GEMAPI. I am pleased that there is an emerging approach to the middle Loire basin, i.e. a delegation of competence for the benefit of the Loire public institution. I can only encourage the elected representatives to complete this operation by ensuring that the structural and institutional foundation of the Loire public establishment is ensured in order to anticipate at the best the ownership of the management of all the state dikes at the latest in 2024. The State, which will continue to meet its financial commitments, also guarantees, in order to make the best use of the CPIERs, that exceptional support from the FPRNM, to the tune of 80%, will be provided to studies of improvement works of the State dikes from 2024 to 2027 inclusive, for works benefiting from a positive cost-benefit analysis that would not have been carried out previously. The mobilization of this lever shows that we want to live up to the stakes. I would also like to remind you that communities have been able to take advantage of the Aqua loan facility that has been open to GEMAPI for the past two years. Flood prevention policy as a whole receives and will receive financial support under flood prevention action programmes. The terms of reference for this call for tenders have just been updated to speed up their preparation and implementation with increased support for the communities carrying out these programs. The amount of the FPRNM was increased by the Finance Act for 2021, from €135 million to €205 million. The State is fully mobilized on this issue, in all its dimensions, in order to respond to the stakes which attach to the GEMAPI for the territories concerned.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u6	Mr Stéphane Baudu has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u7	I take note of the State's position on the financial commitment and thank the Minister for this important clarification. We must go quickly and take very concrete measures that take into account the specific nature of the Loire and its course. The elected need to be reassured. You made a commitment to them. They will have to continue to be supported in the application of the GEMAPI competence.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u8	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor to raise her question, No. 1289, concerning the Court of Appeal of Angers and the Judicial Court of Le Mans.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u9	My question, which was addressed to Mr. the Keeper of the Seals, relates to the situation of the courts of the Court of Appeal of Angers and, in particular, that of the Judicial Court of Le Mans. At their solemn back-to-school hearings, the presidents and prosecutors took stock of the year 2020, marked by two important events, the lawyers' strikes and confinements – notably the first, which led to the arrest of the judiciary – and presented perspectives and priorities. In Le Mans, although the trial of persons in pre-trial detention has been assured, some criminal hearings have had to be postponed until the end of 2021, which is all the more damaging since the number of persons referred, with the characteristics of a crime close to that encountered in some parts of the Paris region, increased by 30 per cent that year. The decline in the number of civil cases tried has been limited, in particular on appeal, except in family matters, which is not without the result of problems which are difficult for litigants. Behind this data is the commitment of magistrates, clerks and other officials to ensure the day-to-day functioning of the justice system. Unfortunately, two facts come in counterpoint. First of all, many reforms are expected: criminal law, legal aid, civil procedure and the dematerialization of proceedings. At the same time, delays in human, material and computer resources are becoming more acute. Positions remain vacant, absences are not replaced and there is still a shortage of telephone, computer and training resources. Beyond the promise of a new effort, I hope that a precise assessment of the posts needed and the tools necessary to ensure justice in the Angers Court of Appeal and the Le Mans Court of Justice can be drawn up in the context of a new type of management dialogue. I also hope that the Government will provide a response that not only takes into account the backlog but also anticipates the necessary means for – and for – the future. I would also like the nation's elected representatives to be able to learn about these means in order to measure the efforts made and to do so. I thank you in advance for giving me a precise answer.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u10	The Minister responsible for the city has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u11	The keeper of the seals is sorry to be unable to attend this session and has instructed me to communicate these elements to you on his behalf. As you indicate, there has been an increase in the stock of court proceedings resulting from the combined effects of the lawyers' strike and the impact of the health crisis. The Government, however, rejects the idea of a court arrested during the first confinement. Although judicial activity has been slowed down, it has in no way been interrupted. The handling of critical litigation has been maintained. The Government underscores the dedication of the judges and clerks who work hard and are animated daily by an unwavering sense of public service. The courts had already mobilized to reduce the time taken to process proceedings, and prosecutors had carried out important work to reorient criminal proceedings. But we have to go further. In order to support the courts in reducing the time taken to deal with these cases and to recover a stock similar to last year's, or even reduce it, the keeper of the seals has thus decided to entrust a working group with the responsibility of formulating concrete proposals to facilitate the absorption of this delay. This multidisciplinary working group of judges, registrars, clerks and lawyers will have the task of proposing tools and actions quickly operational to contribute to the absorption of these stocks. Recommendations from this working group are expected on March 31. As far as staffing is concerned, there is only one vacancy for magistrates in the Court of Appeal in Angers. In the judicial court of Le Mans, a judge's post at the prosecutor's office, as well as a clerk's post – out of 113 – are vacant. As part of the strengthening of community justice, 914 job creations were authorised for 2020 and 2021, representing an increase in the number of first instance staff at the national level, excluding judges, by 5.7 per cent. With regard to the Le Mans Judicial Court, four additional persons were recruited under community justice: one legal assistant and three category B contractors. Finally, with regard to the computer supply, 106 laptops were distributed in 2020 under the jurisdiction of the Angers Court of Appeal. These equipments allow remote access to applicatives, among others in the civil chain. New allocations are scheduled in 2021. As you can see, honourable Member, the resources deployed are considerable and all the actions taken are in the right direction, that of strengthening the resources allocated to the judicial authority.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u12	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u13	I take note of the response provided by the Ministry of Justice. However, I cannot accept the idea that a huge effort would have been made since it is not with a few more laptops that we will be able to meet the needs of magistrates and administrative staff. And with regard to recruitment, it is not necessarily judges that are most needed to advance the various cases under way. As for the working group, while it is important to reflect on ways of filling the delays and to make proposals to this effect by 31 March, these are real means, meeting the expectations of the litigants and the increase of this crime within the perimeter of the Angers Court of Appeal, including the Le Mans Judicial Court, which we need. I very much hope that coordinated means will be put in place to address the stock of ongoing cases.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u14	Mr David Corceiro, speaking on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, raised his question, No. 1262, on the status of translators.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u15	There are 9,000 court interpreters on French territory. They carry out their tasks on the request of the police or judicial authorities, under the status of COSP – occasional collaborator of the public service. Their role is essential in certain procedures and their skills are valuable to justice. But because of their status, they receive net remuneration from social security contributions. While controversy had erupted and the State had been called into question before the courts, the Ministry of Justice had undertaken to settle the charges in accordance with the texts. The situation had therefore since been stabilized. Nevertheless, in the autumn of 2018, the Directorate of Judicial Services decided, on the sole recommendation of the Social Security and the Court of Auditors, that COSPs with annual turnover in excess of EUR 80000 would no longer be covered by the Ministry of Justice, thereby automatically aggravating their income from 35% to 40%, without the capacity to compensate since their tariff schedule is fixed by the Code of Criminal Procedure. Moreover, they would be harmed compared to their counterparts earning less than €800,000 per year, in contravention of the principle of equal remuneration between the different interpreters working for the Ministry of Justice. It should be noted that no text formalizes the decision of the administration and that no communication has been made to these COSPs on both the loss of their status and the resulting social and financial impact. How can this choice of the Ministry of Justice be explained? Does the seal keeper intend to reverse a decision that creates problems when the solution seemed to be found? I recall that the Government's response on 15 December last to a written question unfortunately failed to resolve it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u16	The Minister responsible for the city has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u17	Member of the European Parliament, I apologize for the absence of Mr. Keeper of the Seals, who instructed me to provide you with the following information. Like you, the Ministry of Justice pays particular attention to the situation of interpreters, these actors essential for the smooth running of judicial proceedings. It should be recalled that they fall within the scope of Article L. 311-3 of the Social Security Code and are therefore entitled to the status of occasional collaborators of the public service of justice in the context of the services performed upon the requisition of magistrates or judicial police officers. This provision provides that "persons who contribute to the performance of a public service mission of an administrative nature on behalf of a public or private person shall be subject, inter alia, to the general social security system, where such activity is of an occasional nature [...]. » If the Conseil d'État and the Cour de Cassation have not yet had the opportunity to clarify the meaning to be given to the term "occasional", the Paris Court of Appeal ruled in a judgment of 14 June 2019 that in order to enjoy the status of occasional collaborator of the public service, the person had to carry on his activity either exclusively, but on a discontinuous, ad hoc and irregular basis, or as an accessory to a main activity, the latter being deducted from the existence of two cumulative points: the finding of at least one other activity carried on as a principal activity and the comparison between the amount of income derived from the main activity and the amount of income derived from the participation in the public service, the latter having to be less important. This decision was appealed to the Court of Cassation. On 14 August 2020, the judicial court in Paris considered that the words "occasional collaboration" should be understood as the non-permanent activity of the interpreter, which may be required by the judicial authority 24 hours a day, which may also imply periods of inactivity of several days or even weeks. This decision was appealed. It should be noted that of the 9000 interpreters you mentioned, only about 30 of them receive annual payments of at least EUR 80000 for their contribution to the public service of the Ministry of Justice and do not justify the occasional nature of this activity.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u18	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor to raise her question, No. 1294, concerning the fight against sexual violence.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u19	I too regret the absence of the seal guard. My question is very specific since it deals with statistics on complaints of rape and sexual assault of minors within the family unit, since to date no statistics have been published by the Ministry of Justice. First question: what is the annual number – in 2019 or 2020, no matter what – of complaints recorded in the gendarmerie or police services for these crimes and offences? What is it in particular for my department of Tarn-et-Garonne – I would also like to be given the number by department? Second question: What action has been taken on registered complaints? At the national level, what is the number of openings of information, the number of referrals to the court with investigation, the number of referrals to the court without investigation, the number of filings without investigation and, in case of prosecution, the number of convictions? I would also like to have all this data by department, especially for Tarn-et-Garonne. The third question: when these complaints lead to rankings without follow-up or non-locations, what is the reason for this from a statistical point of view? Question 4: What is the average time taken to process these cases at national level, in the Tarn-et-Garonne department and in each of the other departments? Finally, could you please tell me how many prosecutions have been brought against relatives of minors for non-denunciation of crimes or sexual offences against minors? When I read all these statistical data that I hope to have communicated, I would like to know the conclusions drawn by the seal keeper: in his opinion, is justice today in line with social reality?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u20	The Minister responsible for the city has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u21	You have indeed noted the absence of the keeper of the seals, who instructed me to transmit to you several elements of response. However, before communicating them to you, I would like to assure you that the Government is fully engaged in the fight against sexual violence against minors and that it is a priority. The Act of 3 August 2018 strengthening the fight against sexual and gender-based violence extended the statute of limitations for sexual crimes committed against minors, aggravated the punishment of sexual offences against minors under the age of 15 and broadened the definition of moral coercion. Today, it is necessary to go further and that is the meaning of the proposals announced on 9 February 2021 by the keeper of the seals. Here are statistical information: in 2018, 199 convictions for incestuous rape were recorded in the national criminal record, compared to 129 in 2016; The share of underage authors is increasing, forty-four instead of only thirteen in 2016. In the case of convicted adults, over 97 per cent of the sentences were handed down, with an average quantum of almost 12 years. However, the judicial follow-up given to the cases complained of is complex to analyse because of the normative developments in the field of incest. Thus, the increase in the number of convictions for this type of rape is primarily related to the re-emergence of the incestuous nature of the facts in the Criminal Code in 2016, which allowed them to be distinguished from other sexual crimes. If this qualification applies theoretically to previous acts, the cases tried until 2016 do not allow their application, these crimes being qualified as ascendant rapes or minor rapes without it being necessarily possible to identify incestuous acts. Statistical analysis should therefore be relativized as it is more indicative of an improvement in the census of this dispute through a gradual appropriation of incestuous qualifications than a real evolution of this criminal phenomenon which is too early to observe. This development should also be linked to the debates on the lengthening of the statute of limitations and to the policy pursued following the release of the victims' words. These cases necessarily remain long to deal with in terms of their criminal nature, but also in some cases because of the delay between the commission of the facts and their disclosure, which requires more sensitive investigations, in particular to find witnesses. Decisions to place no action or no action are therefore based mainly on legal grounds – prescription of facts or impossibility of establishing sufficient charges. Finally, the Ministry of Justice does not have the number of complaints lodged each year, as this figure falls under the Ministry of the Interior. Moreover, the offence of non-denunciation of crime does not specify whether the acts kept silent are sexual or not, so it is not possible to identify the number of cases to which you refer.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u22	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor for 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u23	I can hear you, Madam Chair, but the minister in charge had two minutes to answer me. Madam Deputy Minister, I am saddened. The answer you have given me means that the Ministry of Justice is not piloted because it has no statistics. Let the great principles inspire and dictate the law, I hear it, but this is a management issue. Counting the number of complaints certainly depends on the Ministry of the Interior, but you are supposed to answer me on behalf of the Government. Frankly, it's scary.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u24	Mr José Evrard has the floor to put his question, No. 1292, on the social and health crisis in the former mining areas.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u25	My question is to Mrs Bourguignon, Minister for Self-Government. From the height of the twin dens of the 11-19 of Lens, the gaze brings to infinity, from west to east, on the former mining tank. From the missing easels to the unturned rollers, remains the visual testimony of a territory that was once a land of welcome because of the land of work. These are shale pyramids left by black gules after more than two centuries of coal mining; At the time before the ECSC, the European Coal and Steel Community, the working-class districts and the corons were wound up, they were full of life; There were many sports, cultural and friendly associations. The end of coal has had painful consequences for social life. The former capital of the mining basin bears heavy stigmas; the children of the earth are violently hit by endemic unemployment, which points to the first place in France. In Lens, the average annual wage is €15,000, 23% of the population is in the RSA, a percentage that is still rising sharply with the health crisis, and 20% of the unemployed, a figure that also continues to grow, with the hemorrhage of mass unemployment continuing. The labour recession has led to the explosion of health problems: cancers are 70% higher than the national average, the pneumonology service of the Lens hospital centre, which provided 4000 annual consultations, is closed. The work reduced to the skin of grief gangrene life: poverty, misery, impoverishment cause a petrifying anguish and undermine the appetite to live. Human suffering is profound. The galley has replaced happiness on a daily basis. Definitely, having 20 years in the corons today is not the best age in life! This youth grew up with the anxiety of the next day, terrorism and now the health crisis. This youth is broken before even having the chance to get to know active life. 2020 will enter history as the marker of a sacrificed generation whose student situation expresses all the tragic. A youth sacrificed augurs for the painful destiny of a country, France, where the signs of hope are red. When you live in a completely delinquent place, as are the corons, it is difficult to feel integrated and to believe in the future. This run-off of poverty leads to a loss of self-confidence. The epidemic reinforces inequalities and increases fragility: overweight, eating disorders, rising cardiovascular diseases, diabetes, explosion of cancers and suicides, psychological problems... This additional crisis prepares for the worst; The country is derailing. The centre of gravity of a society is its social psyche. Destroying work is destroying life. The next world will not be radiant. In the corons, the life of people is not that of fictional characters; These people have a human face. The human being lives in society, he needs a social bond to build himself and to realize himself. It is necessary to detect, treat and protect; containment cannot be the right response to the epidemic. We must stem this social and human distress. Let us give the possibility of access to care; Let's get this trauma back. Dreams and hopes must not be broken: they are a hymn to life.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u26	The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Pensions and Occupational Health.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u27	You first pointed out an important issue concerning the mining basin, a territory that we both know well, but which is also true for the Hauts-de-Frances as a whole, is that of health. Through my duties, I am particularly committed to occupational health, which we are seeking to transform so that it is more focused on prevention. By widening the focus a little, because the situation you are referring to about the mining basin is also shared by the other territories of the region, the figures for the Hauts-de-France show this: each year, there is an increase of 10,000 deaths compared to the national average, which places our region at the last places of a sad ranking. The Government was therefore committed to promoting preventive action in the field of occupational health, and it was accompanying the hospitals in Lens and, more generally, the region. In addition, you recalled the importance of the social link. The latter is also created in employment and in the enterprise. You yourself stressed this by talking about the average income and the unemployment rate: employment must be the answer we must provide collectively. The Bridgestone site in Bethune is a good example of this. The Government – notably with Élisabeth Borne, Minister of Labour, Employment and Inclusion, and Agnes Pannier-Runacher, Minister of Industry, accompanied by some local elected officials – is fully committed to a transformation with two objectives: to support all Bridgestone employees who have to leave their jobs in a new professional project and to revitalize the Bridgestone site. Let me remind you a few figures about the employees involved in the closure of the Bridgestone plant: sixty-five people have already found a CDI, thirteen one CDD, one hundred should be affected by early retirement and one hundred and ten employees are also engaged in a training project. The social bond we find in work is important to make sense of our daily lives, our commitment and our lives. The work promotes emancipation. This is the object of the recovery plan advocated by the Government, with 35 billion euros mobilized by 2022 around four axes: decarbonizing industry, relocating strategic activities, modernizing the productive apparatus and innovation. Our region of the Hauts-de-France must benefit from a number of actions and commitment from the Government, provided that, collectively, we have the energy and the will to carry out projects. If we want to give hope in the Hauts-de-Frances, we must innovate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u28	The floor is open to Mr. Pierre Vatin, to put his question, No. 1281, on the national vaccination strategy against covid-19.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u29	I would like to know more about the national strategy for vaccination against covid-19, which is a source of concern for the French. The Government launched the vaccination campaign with a slow pace assumed by the Minister of Solidarity and Health. The latter results in supply difficulties, postponement of vaccination appointments, reduced vaccination targets, discontinuation of first injections in at least three regions, including my own, the Hauts-de-France. In times of shortage, the Government criminalizes laboratories. However, only the executive has a responsibility to anticipate and ensure an adequate supply of vaccine doses. Moreover, the duration of the vaccine's protection, its effectiveness against variants of the virus and its effects on health legitimately prompt the French to question themselves. The health situation, which continues to be poor, and the idea, mentioned several times, of introducing a vaccination passport are all additional concerns. In addition, there are many questions from sick or fragile people who cannot travel to a vaccination centre. What about the possibility, for the latter, of being vaccinated at home, while the virus very often ends up at home, despite all the precautions that are taken? What else does the Government intend to do to accelerate the deployment of the vaccination campaign? Will it remain optional? What measures does the Government intend to take to reassure our compatriots?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u30	The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Children and Families.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u31	To reassure our compatriots – as you ask – I would like to point out that France is absolutely not late for the vaccination campaign. On the contrary, the figures show a steady increase in the number of people vaccinated, day after day: as of 14 February, almost 3 million first injections had already been made, which places France ahead of Germany, Italy and Spain. This makes a ratio of four first injections per 100 inhabitants over 18 years of age, compared to 3.7 for Germany and Spain, and 3.2 for Italy. Building on this rise in power, achieved thanks to the unwavering commitment of all healthcare professionals, we obviously intend to continue this dynamic, without abandoning the imperative of transparency that we have been making since the beginning of the crisis. The latter obliges me to recall that we are always dependent on the deliveries of the laboratories. To speed up vaccination, we rely on several factors. As the campaign unfolds, our supplies increase, which will allow us to gradually reduce tensions on access to vaccination. I would remind you that France is obviously affected by the purchase option activated at the end of December by the European Commission in order to receive more Pfizer vaccines. In addition to the 30 million doses initially planned for France between December 2020 and autumn 2021, this option will allow us to benefit from almost 20 million additional doses which will be delivered before the end of the summer. In addition, the gradual arrival of new vaccines on the market is also intended to allow an acceleration of the campaign. In addition to the two RNA vaccines – ribonucleic acid – messenger from the Pfizer and Moderna laboratories, the recent marketing authorisation for the AstraZeneca vaccine will make it possible to offer the vaccine in the city very quickly to anyone under the age of 65, starting with those suffering from co-morbidities. Thanks to its unique pharmaceutical circuit in Europe, with nearly 21,000 pharmacies and more than 60,000 city doctors capable of immunizing, France can hope for a rapid increase in the number of people vaccinated. In addition to AstraZeneca, other vaccines such as Novavax or Janssen could soon be granted marketing authorisation. All of this will allow us to increase the number of vaccination appointments that are opened gradually according to the number of doses received. On Friday, February 12, the appointments available in the centres extended until the end of February. Since then, vaccination centres have been gradually opening up niches for the month of March. For example, more than 1 million first injection appointments and 800,000 second injections are expected to be honoured in March at vaccination centres. There has been a massive increase in French participation in vaccination, and the work of communication and transparency of the Ministry of Solidarity and Health has contributed to this. Since February, more than 70 per cent of French people have declared that they want to be vaccinated. This figure has increased sharply since the launch of the campaign. Finally, with regard to the last aspect of your question on the optionality of vaccination, I recall the Government's clear line from the beginning: no one is obliged to be vaccinated. It is not a question of forcing, but rather of providing the French with all the necessary information on the deployment of the vaccination campaign, on supply tensions or on the side effects so that they can make an informed decision.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u32	Mr. Pierre Vatin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u33	Thank you, Secretary of State, for having provided a number of answers that I had not been able to obtain at the weekly meetings with the prefecture of Oise. I can only regret that the details you provide do not reach the departmental heads of the regional health agency or the prefect.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u34	The floor is open to Mrs Jeanine Dubie, to put forward her question, No. 1284, concerning the project for a joint Tarbes-Lourdes hospital at a unique site in Lanne.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u35	Since 2018, the two senators and the two deputies of the department of Hautes-Pyrénées, the mayors of Tarbes and Lourdes, each president of the supervisory board of the hospitals of Tarbes and Lourdes respectively, as well as the president of the departmental council, have been unanimous in the need to bring to fruition the project of a joint hospital Tarbes-Lourdes, which has been too late. Indeed, the construction of this hospital is decisive to maintain and sustain the public hospital offer of short stays throughout the department of Hautes-Pyrénées. In January 2019, during the first presentation of the investment project, COPERMO, the interdepartmental committee for the performance and modernization of the hospital care offer, endorsed the location of this hospital at the Lanne site. It also made recommendations to consolidate the file, including on the financial side. A new presentation of the project was therefore held in February 2020, shortly before the abolition of COPERMO by the Ségur de la santé. Following this new presentation, the Minister of Solidarity and Health confirmed in a letter dated 20 October 2020 to the department's elected representatives the need to carry out the project while guaranteeing its eligibility for national aid. Indeed, given the budgetary situation of the two hospital centres, it is essential that the State make a financial contribution of at least 50% in order to be able to carry out the operation – the cost of which is estimated at 210 million euros – and to ensure its long-term financial sustainability. During an official visit by the Prime Minister and the Minister of Solidarity and Health to Tarbes on 9 January, I raised this issue with them. Olivier Véran then undertook to give an answer within ten days, stating that the hospital must correspond to the needs of the territory without constraint either on the staff or on the number of beds. Having not yet received an answer, I would like to know more about the intentions of the Government and whether a final decision confirming the construction of the Tarbes-Lourdes joint hospital on a single site in Lanne could finally be taken in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u36	The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Children and Families.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u37	Let me begin by recalling one of the relatively simple principles of the Government's work: we want to develop a high-quality medical project, which is essential to ensure access to care throughout the country. The consolidation of medical, surgical and obstetric services at the Tarbes and Lourdes hospital centres at the Lanne site means that the quality of care for the population is improved. This joint hospital project is indeed the basis of a strategy to structure the care at the service of the inhabitants, in connection with city medicine. This is the guiding thread of the Government's action, which is unsurprisingly at the heart of the "my health 2022" approach to which you, the Member of Parliament, have contributed, as well as in the measures taken by the Ségur de la santé. This is therefore a priority for the Government. The Territory's elected representatives, including all the parliamentarians of whom you are a member and whom we welcome for their continued support of the project, received in December 2020 a letter from the Minister of Solidarity and Health confirming the eligibility of the project for national financial aid. The operational implementation of the project will lead to the merger, scheduled for 2023, of the two establishments. The transfer of land from the hospital centres of Lourdes and Tarbes remains to be secured. In addition, public transport access to the new hospital should not be neglected. The funding will be decided within the framework of the new Segur de la santé. The leverage to support the debt relief and investment of public hospitals will be mobilised as much as possible, as the deteriorating financial situation of the two hospitals requires significant support. It is now a matter of moving forward. Since the visit of the Prime Minister and the Minister of Solidarity and Health in January, the programming phase has been launched and the team responsible for developing the real estate programme should soon be chosen. The two hospital communities are expected to submit a detailed project in the near future. Important work remains to be done before the new hospital is opened. The timetable is ambitious and, in order to keep it, the actors are accompanied by the Occitanie Regional Health Agency, which has been present with them since the beginning of the project.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u38	Mrs Jeanine Dubie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u39	Thank you for the clarification, Secretary of State, but my question is: When will a final decision finally be made? This situation has been going on for years and, in the meantime, the deficits continue to grow, the staff of the two hospitals are exhausting and suffering from budgetary constraints – non-replacement of medical stops, closure of services due to lack of staff. It can't last any longer! I hope that the Ministry of Solidarity and Health will communicate in the coming weeks an official decision to local actors and hospital centres.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u40	Mrs Laurence Dumont has the floor to put her question, No. 1287, on the reconstruction of the CHU in Caen.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u41	Last May, as we barely came out of the first confinement, the Calvados parliamentarians asked you to review the capacity reduction originally planned in the project to rebuild the university hospital – the CHU – in Caen. On the occasion of a question to the Government, I had stressed the need to reconsider the reduction of 200 beds. In the absence of the Minister of Solidarity and Health, Ms. Darrieussecq, on behalf of the Government, had readily admitted that the forecasts of the initial project dating from 2015 were not frozen and that consideration should be given to "possible or necessary improvements that are specified over time, in view of the health needs and the evolution of care". Very quickly, the Prefect of Calvados proposed to organize a meeting between parliamentarians, representatives of the regional health agency – ARS – as well as those of the management of the CHU and the mayor of Caen in order to take stock of this project that we do not wish to hinder, but to adapt to the realities of the current needs of the territory. A second meeting took place on February 5th – I thank the Prefect, the Director of the CHU, the Chairman of the Medical Commission of Establishment and the ARS for following up on this file. This meeting confirmed two points: on the one hand, that the reduction in the number of beds planned for 2015 is not applicable in 2021 despite the transformations, in particular the development of the ambulance and the organisation of the reception at the level of all the establishments in the territory; on the other hand, that the construction permit under development allows the maintenance of the current capacity level – a key point. So, Mr. Secretary of State, can you confirm to me that the 200 beds of the CHU in Caen will be maintained in the reconstruction project, or even re-evaluated upwards in the light of the needs study that was updated following our first request?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u42	The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Children and Families.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u43	The project to rebuild the main site of the CHU in Caen on the site "Côte de nacre", on which you are again questioning the Government following your question in May, was decided in November 2016, six years after being mentioned for the first time. This investment of EUR 502 million is supported by the State to the tune of 350 million. The opening of the new CHU is planned in 2026 after a nearly complete reconstruction, necessary and expected. With regard to the decrease in the number of beds foreseen in the 2016 project, I understand that the Government as well as local actors, in particular the ARS, assured you, including at the meeting on 5 February, that the number of places in the future CHU is not frozen. Ten years will have elapsed between the initial version of the project in 2016 and the establishment's opening in 2026. In a project of this magnitude, it is essential to take into account the possible or even necessary improvements that are specified over time, in view of the health needs to be met and the evolution of care. On the other hand, you are aware of the Government's willingness to learn the lessons of the covid -19 epidemic in order to inform the decisions to be taken in order to better prepare our health system for tomorrow's challenges. The Ségur de la Santé agreements, signed in July 2020, are a first step in this direction, since they include better involving elected representatives and communities in projects, starting with major investments in health, medical and social fields and digital transformation. I am aware of all these elements that were recalled at the meeting on 5 February that you mentioned, at which also the work to prepare the reconstruction was presented, as well as specific elements regarding the future capabilities of the site. Our ambition is simple: to make the CHU de Caen a modern establishment at the service of its territory and attractive for healthcare professionals. I take this opportunity to welcome once again the unwavering mobilization of the hospital community, which, while ensuring the response to the covid-19 epidemic and all of its care, training and research activities, is actively working on the new CHU project, drawing in particular on current needs. The work done in connection with the RSA of Normandy, for example, resulted in an increase of 45 beds for follow-up care and rehabilitation in December. Further work is under consideration, which also reflects our willingness to learn the lessons of this very special year 2020 and to accompany the evolution of care needs. A reflection is underway on the possibility to activate additional hospital units, thought like modular "crisis" units, in medicine as well as in critical care. There is also the possibility of setting up an additional outpatient unit in the new buildings. Finally, I would like to highlight the efforts of the CHU to prepare these new organisations and test them in the five years that separate them from the opening of the new centre. This is an equally important issue and the State will ensure that the CHU is accompanied to ensure that all the teams fully appropriate the opportunities offered for the benefit of care, training and research.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u44	Mrs Laurence Dumont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u45	All this is nice and good, but not very precise. In the end, you tell me more or less the answer that was given to me in May: the number of beds "is not frozen" – of which act. But the crisis has gone through this and the number of beds has even increased by 45 units in the territory, which proves that the decline in capacity is not possible. Again, as you said: the crisis has gone through this and we must draw conclusions as to the needs, which the reduction of 200 beds cannot satisfy.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u46	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor to put his question, No. 1265, concerning the hospital campus project in the Grand Paris Nord.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u47	There's a front and one after covid -19. It's sad, but it's taken a pandemic for your government to start giving a good start to the mobilised caregivers, who have been sounding alarms for years about their working conditions and the lack of resources and staff. They were already asking for an increase in salaries and the closure of beds – yes, it was before the covid -19! We can no longer repeat the same mistakes. However, this is what you are about to do because your government – the previous questions have shown – has decided to keep hospital and bed closures planned before the crisis. In my constituency, in Seine-Saint-Denis, the Paris Public Hospital Assistance – AP-HP – wishes to set up a university hospital – CHU –, the Grand Paris Nord hospital, right in the centre of Saint-Ouen. It is said to be the result of the merger of two hospitals, Bichat and Beaujon, dedicated to closure. Not only is the logic of hospital closure, after the year we have lived, irresponsible, but the Grand Paris Nord hospital will have some 300 beds less than the Bichat and Beaujon hospitals combined. In Seine-Saint-Denis, we are already missing everything; Will we have to be further deprived of access to health care? How can we imagine the construction of a hospital megastructure with 300 fewer beds in a city belonging to Plaine Commune, which suffered an overmortality of 182 % compared to the national average during the crisis of the covid-19? How can we build a hospital megastructure that will destroy two other hospitals, including the Bichat Hospital, which played a central role between Paris and the Seine-Saint-Denis at the height of the crisis? How can we build a megastructure of 130,000 square meters in the middle of an urban centre where transport is already saturated, while it is also planned that the territory will experience a demographic explosion? A number of alternative projects have been proposed by local, elected and health-care community groups. Other solutions exist: maintaining and renovating the Bichat and Beaujon hospitals, building a third, smaller hospital in Saint-Ouen, for example, on Olympic sites after the Games. After the written question that I have asked you and which has not been answered, I ask you to understand, Mr. Secretary of State, that it is legitimate to question a project conceived before the covid-19 pandemic, and to accept the moratorium on the Grand Paris Nord hospital so that alternative projects can be seriously assessed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u48	The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Children and Families.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u49	The Grand Paris Nord hospitalo-university campus project does not date back since it was validated in 2006, but it would be a reduction to present it as the simple fusion of the sites of Bichat and Beaujon. It is a matter of reorganising the entire offer of hospital-university care in the north of the metropolis. The design of the project planned for 2028 took account of the francilian demographic prospects for 2030 as well as the various hospital projects in the north of the Greater Paris metropolis, on the understanding that each of them will have an impact on the distribution of patient flows, which will change profoundly in the years to come. I am thinking in particular of the New Lariboisière, the reorganization of the Avicenne-Jean-Verdier ensemble, the evolution of the Louis-Mourier hospital in Colombes and the hospital centre in Saint-Denis. Naturally, prospects can still evolve and the project is adapted accordingly. In September, for example, the Government validated a 90-bed increase for the project, an increase of 12 per cent in the projected capacity level. Above all, this project is based on a profound reorganisation of the modes of care based on the strengthening of the technical platforms and on better cooperation between the hospital and the city care – it seems to me that we all agree on the need to move forward in this direction – and finally on the accompanying of a project to strengthen the global health supply in this particular and so humanly rich territory where your constituency is located. This strengthening is the central element of the health strategy in this territory. It will build on the development of the organisation shared with the city and neighbouring structures, on the support of professionals – in practice and in the future – wishing to settle near the establishment, and on the development of telemedicine, whose crisis has proved to be of great relevance. As you can see, it is therefore both a matter of enriching the supply of community care, and of reducing the average length of stay by strengthening the downstream channels in connection with the other health and medical-social actors. This project must be considered as a whole for its ambitious and coherent nature, far from being reduced to the construction of a single hospital that would result from the merger and closure of two other institutions. Moreover, the construction of this new hospital is very much expected, but is part of a global perspective of strengthening the provision of care for the inhabitants of the whole territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u50	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u51	No doubt you've just discovered this case, Secretary of State, but you don't seem to know the situation. I know that you are looking at each case carefully, so I ask you to look at it as well. Indeed, not all of the establishments you mention – Lariboisière, Avicenne, Colombes – are in Plaine Commune, where, I remind you, mortality has been higher while the population is younger. At Delafontaine Hospital, right next door, the entire pediatric service was requisitioned during the crisis to open beds to accommodate people dying of covid-19. Health supply is catastrophic, both in the private and public sectors; and the population is growing. You blame me for a reductive vision, but in fact you close Bichat and Beaujon and propose to create a hospital system in which the number of beds will be less than the current number. That can't convince anyone. Caregivers oppose your project in increasing numbers and the Mayor of Paris recently asked for its suspension in order to examine alternative projects: that's all we're asking you.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u52	Mrs Severine Gipson has the floor to put her question, No. 1270, on attacks on pharmacists.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u53	My question, which I address to the Minister of the Interior, concerns the increase in the number of robberies and assaults against pharmacists, particularly in the department of Eure. In this period of health crisis, the continuity of the operation of pharmacies is essential for the provision of advice and medicines, regardless of the public. However, the order of pharmacists has seen an increase of 50 to 60 per cent in the number of attacks since the beginning of the health crisis: insults, threats, burglaries and even stabbing. Since the beginning of confinement, not a day has passed without the press relaying a variety of facts aimed at the medical community. Online scams, drug sales, theft of protective equipment: the shape of crime has changed and its activities now focus exclusively on the crisis and the possibilities it offers. It's the medical sector that's paying for it. This has led the gendarmerie to retaliate by launching Operation Hygie. Attacks, whether physical or verbal, are unacceptable, given the role of pharmacists, professionals essential for first aid in small towns in the Eure. Operation Hygie must focus its efforts on protecting sensitive sites and transport. As the safety of all health professionals is a key issue, what steps does the Government intend to take to stop this new form of crime, particularly in the context of Operation Hygiene launched in April 2020?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u54	The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Children and Families.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u55	Let me first apologise for the absence of the Minister of the Interior, but your question, as you will recall in conclusion, is somewhat at the crossroads of our fields of competence. Since 2017, pharmacists have been able to report attacks from the national pharmacists' website. This simplification has resulted in a marked increase in reported incidents of incivility and violence, but few victims confirm their statements by filing complaints. In its area of competence, the gendarmerie noted an increase in the number of acts of threats and insults, from 27 in 2019 to 38 in 2020, or 30 per cent. On the other hand, there has been a slight decline in violence. The police and gendarmerie forces are sensitized and attentive to any request for intervention in this area, guaranteeing total reactivity. As soon as a problem was reported, the passage of patrols to the outskirts of pharmacy clinics, for example, as well as regular contacts, resulted in the avoidance of many incivilities and incidents, including within the framework of the daily security police, the PSQ. In several departments, the national police security focal points met with pharmacists to raise their awareness. These safety focal points provide advice to reduce the identified vulnerabilities of institutions. Each incident reported must be addressed. Every time a crime is committed, every effort is made to identify and challenge the perpetrators. In recent months, law enforcement officials have conducted a number of arrests related to offences against the medical sector, including theft by break-in in medical offices, attempted robbery by break-in in pharmacy clinics, etc. At the national level, and in line with the GEND 20.24 strategy of a tailor-made security offer, Operation Gendarmerie Hygiene, which you refer to, launched in April 2020, created a comprehensive security offer for the medical community. From the protection of pharmaceutical clinics to the personalized care of care workers who are victims of assault, Operation Hygie is bearing fruit. On 26 October 2020, the public security office of the Directorate-General of the National Gendarmerie, the national security focal point of the national order of pharmacists and the security focal point of the biology section, carried out a survey of their organisations to strengthen their cooperation. Operation Hygie is also being implemented in cyberspace to respond to the crime of new digital borders. The gendarmes of the National Cyber Threat Control Centre have managed to shut down seven fraudulent online sales sites offering masks, gloves, hydro-alcoholic gels and screening tests. While the state of health emergency has just been extended until 1 June 2021 by the Government, the police and gendarmerie services remain, Madam Member of Parliament, fully engaged in the fight against crime against health professionals.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u56	Mrs Severine Gipson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u57	Thank you, Secretary of State, for your answer. In the Eure, Operation Hygie has made it possible to establish privileged links between gendarmes and health professionals and to put an end, thanks to the precise reports of a pharmacist, to serial flights in pharmacies. I am therefore pleased to hear that this system is maintained during the state of emergency.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u58	Mrs Karine Lebon has the floor to put question No. 1266 by Mrs Marie-George Buffet, concerning the situation of administrative detention centres.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u59	It was indeed our colleague Marie-George Buffet, who was prevented, who had to ask the question that I will read to you: "Minister, on January 7, I visited the administrative detention centre – CRA – Mesnil-Amelot. I can only regret that men and women are placed in this situation of detention before being expelled from the territory as they seek to improve their lives, and often to survive. However, whatever our opinion on the existence of such centres, the need to ensure dignified and rights-abiding conditions of detention cannot be the subject of any concession. The same requirement must apply to the working conditions of police officers, administrative staff, persons who allow access to care, access to rights... "However, I was able to see an important obstinateness in the administrative detention centres CRA 2 and 3 of the Mesnil-Amelot: ventilation that does not work in the showers, impossibility of obtaining hot water, scaly paint, cracks on walls and ceilings in all places of life or work. The question is not new: in 2011, these are already shortcomings that the controllers of places of deprivation of liberty were reporting after their visits from 15 to 18 November. It referred, for example, to ''unusable accommodation buildings due to water infiltration''. Yet the buildings were barely out of the ground! CRA 2 opened on 1 August 2011 and CRA 3 opened on 19 September 2011. "With the recent incidents of 20 January leading to the destruction of two buildings, it is time to upgrade all these centres to ensure respect for the dignity to which the detainees are entitled, even though the existence of the CRA, I insist, remains subject to debate. Following this state of affairs, I would like to know what means will be dedicated, in the urgency, to the maintenance and renovation of the detention centres of the Mesnil-Amelot. »
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u60	The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Children and Families.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u61	Let me, in turn, apologise for the absence of the Minister of the Interior, who has been chosen for other obligations. We share the need to ensure decent conditions of detention for those detained, as well as a satisfactory working environment for police officers and staff in detention centres. This is a priority of the Ministry of the Interior. Since 2018, an increased financial effort has been made to carry out renovation, improvement and heavy maintenance operations in administrative detention centres. The main operations concern, on the one hand, the living conditions of the detainees and, on the other hand, the deployment of activities and equipment in the CRAs with the aim of developing so-called occupational activities, in order to alleviate idleness and boredom within these centres, which are often a source of tension. Several investments are financed in administrative detention centres, such as children's playgrounds and sports facilities of different kinds, including multi-sport courts, mini-sports. To these gross capital costs is added the cost of the work necessary to adapt the existing infrastructure. Heavy maintenance operations mainly concern the implementation of fire safety standards, electricity, maintenance interventions at all sites, security, accessibility standards for people with reduced mobility – there was an effort in this regard – or the development of facilities for video-audience. As regards more specifically the Mesnil-Amelot, which Mrs Buffet visited, the operations are as follows. The maintenance and maintenance work represented an investment of €430,000 in 2020, with rehabilitation, vandalism repairs, adaptation to the situation related to the covid epidemic -19, compared to €230,000 in 2019. Heavy maintenance work is under way: repair of the generator, for an amount of 404000 euros, renovation and replacement of video surveillance and access control facilities, for 975000 euros, or renovation of the centre and annex of the court of main instance, for 450000 euros. Multi-service services are part of an operating contract whose overall cost has increased from EUR 1.2 million to EUR 1.7 million in one year. Among the missions carried out, I can share with you the bedding, which is often damaged and which is regularly replaced – a hundred beds were bought last year – the stainless steel sanitary equipment, which is daily disinfected, or the maintenance on the site of agents as long as possible in order to ensure a permanent maintenance, particularly necessary in this period.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u62	Mr Yannick Haury has the floor to put his question, No. 1272, concerning the evacuation of the ZAD from the Carnet.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u63	Since September 2020, the website of the Book, located in the communes of Frossay and Saint-Viaud, in the Loire-Atlantique, has been blocked. This illegal occupation violates the rule of law and the fundamental principles of the Republic. It exacerbates tensions and has many unpleasant consequences for the daily lives of the inhabitants: blocked roads and multiple degradations. I have visited the Carnet several times to appreciate the situation and to affirm my support for the elected officials, the inhabitants and the director of the port. I thank the gendarmes very much for their essential work in securing the site. Over the last few weeks, tension has risen a little further and the inhabitants of the Pays de Retz are afraid that this area will become an area to defend – ZAD – as dangerous as that of Notre-Dame- des Landes. In addition to the obvious disturbance to public order, this situation endangers the economic activities located nearby, particularly those of the dry port known as "Les Portes de l'Atlantique", even though this site of the Carnet was chosen as part of Operation Choose France in order to attract industrialists to our territory. This real economic opportunity offered to the South-Loire to create new jobs related primarily to environmental protection is being reduced to nothing. It's a real mess. We must at all costs prevent the Carnet from becoming the new Notre-Dame-des-Landes. The inhabitants of Loire-Atlantique do not want or can not again suffer such a situation. Several referenda were filed: by the Grand Port maritime de Nantes Saint-Nazaire, by the mayors of the municipalities concerned and, this week, by the departmental council. I insist that we cannot tolerate the establishment of a lawless zone in our territory. I know that all of us, elected locals and parliamentarians, are unanimous in calling for this occupation to cease and for the republican rules essential for living together to be respected. Mr Secretary of State, I am therefore the spokesman for the Loire-Atlantique: you cannot let Le Carnet become the new symbol of alterglobalists and protestors of any kind. The rule of law must be restored without delay before the situation degenerates and is out of control. It is the honour of the State we serve.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u64	The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Children and Families.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u65	The challenge of large development projects in the form of illegal occupation of sites, sometimes of abuses carried out by radicalised opponents, is a phenomenon that has spread for several years in our country. The ZAD de Notre-Dame-des-Landes, which you cite and which was located in the same department, is one of the most recent and well-known examples. The Government is aware of the negative impact of these settlements, their sustainable anchoring, on the local economy and the daily lives of the residents. I assure you, on behalf of the Minister of the Interior, of the full mobilization of the Government to ensure respect for the rule of law and the principles of the Republic in these territories. This is why the occupation, since 30 August 2020, of the site of the Book, which plans to host an eco-tech park in the heart of the Great Maritime Port of Nantes Saint-Nazaire, by some 50 radicalised occupants, is the subject of the full attention of the law enforcement forces. The prefect obviously follows the situation very closely. Also, on November 3, 2020, the Grand Port Maritime of Nantes Saint-Nazaire announced the updating of its inventories of the site's fauna and flora, resulting in the freezing of the project for a year. Respect for the rule of law is first and foremost an intervention within a clearly defined legal framework. The occupants have settled on plots owned by multiple owners who have not, at this stage, filed a complaint. Thus, only the parcels of the large port were the subject of an order authorizing their evacuation, which was issued on February 5, 2021. All the services of the state, be sure, Mr.Member, are attentive to the situation and to its evolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u66	Mr Yannick Haury has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u67	Thank you, Secretary of State. I stand at the disposal of the ministry to discuss this issue.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u68	Mr Marc Delatte has the floor to put his question, No. 1283, concerning the real estate establishment of the gendarmerie in Dijon.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u69	My question about the deterioration of the gendarmerie's property rights will not surprise you because, on a recurring basis, I have to ask it to the minister of the interior, to the present as well as to his predecessors. Indeed, in view of the list of projects selected within the framework of France Relance in respect of the energy rehabilitation of the State's heritage, as regards the Deflandre district, which is home to the gendarmerie region in Dijon, it is disappointment. The need and urgency are there, the opportunity for the recovery plan was there, the funds were there, but unfortunately the Government is not there. However, this winter again, from weeks without hot water to heat cuts, there are no fewer than 450 families living in these obsolete apartments soon to be 50 years old. The state wants to prohibit the rental of private buildings on the pretext of poor energy performance, but constantly postpones the rehabilitation of its own heritage and buildings hosting our gendarmes. How can I understand that? Mr Secretary of State, will the Government do more than just hear the distress of the gendarmes in Dijon?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u70	The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Children and Families.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u71	Allow me to apologize for the absence of the Minister of the Interior, whose voice I will make the most faithful. In 2021, the national gendarmerie will benefit from 122 million euros for the maintenance of its housing stock, i.e. almost 30 per cent more appropriations than in 2020, which demonstrates a strong political choice by the Government, which you will agree. In addition, more than 300 operations will be committed to an amount of EUR 137 million under the call for projects in the real estate recovery plan. The improvement of the working and living conditions of the gendarmes and their families is a matter of constant concern to the Government. The Deflandre de Dijon barracks, built in 1973, is the headquarters of the gendarmerie staff of the Burgundy-Franche-Comté region, the research section of the staff of the mobile gendarmerie group, the mobile gendarmerie squadron 41/ 7 – EGM 41 / 7 –, the gendarmerie company, the gendarmerie car support centre – CSAG –, the branch of the intervention group of the national gendarmerie – GIGN – and the specialized platoon of protection of the Gendarmerie – PSPG. You are well aware of this important real estate establishment that accommodates 461 housing units. Studies will be undertaken in 2021, for an amount of 500,000 euros, in order to consolidate the project of rehabilitation of this barracks. The total need is already estimated at around €65 million. This will include the construction of premises for services to receive office space and to restore the primary function of decommissioned housing, as well as the undertaking of energy rehabilitation of existing housing buildings. The implementation of this work is a priority for the Ministry of the Interior and will be carried out in several tranches from the year 2022.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u72	Mr Marc Delatte has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u73	Thank you for that clarification, Secretary of State. I take note of the Government's commitments on this work, which will begin in 2022. The shortfall in the budget of the gendarmerie of Dijon for 2021 was more than regrettable. As you have pointed out, it is a considerable amount of money that will have to be allocated over the next few years. Dijon's gendarmes deserve it. I therefore urge you to take the necessary steps with the Minister of the Interior to ensure that the commitment you have just made is fulfilled in 2022.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u74	The floor is open to Mr Stéphane Viry to put his question, No 1278, on the horticultural sector.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u75	Mr Minister for Agriculture and Food, just a few weeks away from spring and the flower season, I want to ask you about the plant sector, which represents many professions, jobs and activities: nurseries, horticulturalists, production trades, florists, gardeners, sales trades to the public, but also landscape companies and all the trades of planning and design. The year 2020 put the sector in great difficulty as a result of the covid -19 epidemic, as health measures hindered activity and led to a significant decrease in the turnover of these specialised companies. The situation remains worrying for traders and artisans in the sector. These economic actors clearly need support. Let us remember the importance of plants in the daily lives of our fellow citizens: trees and plants are at the heart of all environmental policies. It is therefore necessary to ensure the health of this sector. The plant is essential to the life and health of French people beyond the jobs and value created by the industry. However, the plant is a living, ultra-fresh, perishable, non-stockable, non-transformable agricultural product that often requires a long production time. In the spring of 2020, 100 million stems of flowers were destroyed and the aid of EUR 25 million released by the State to compensate for these losses was not paid in time, even though the producers had to reinvest in order to be able to offer new flowers in the spring of 2021. There is still uncertainty about the flow of production due to the health crisis and potential administrative closures of outlets, as we unfortunately experienced last spring. Another observation is that the measures in the recovery plan for the crop sector appear to be a little meagre and too complex for professionals, since the provisions are not easily accessible. Finally, public procurement should be used as a massive lever for the development of the sector in the context of vegetation, maintenance and transition plans. Here too, I am convinced that the Government can do much more. Minister, what decisions have you taken to recognize professionals in the plant sector, essential to the lives of French people, as essential actors?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u76	The next speaker is the Minister for Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u77	Thank you very much for your question, honourable Member. This is a fact, we have talked less about the plant sector, particularly horticulture, than others, while it is of great economic importance. But it is also important in that it contributes to the joy and happiness of our daily lives, even though it has suffered enormously from the health crisis. Nature never stops, even in times of confinement. However, during the first confinement, the operators had to continue to pay their expenses and employees in order to continue their business, which is why they were not able to benefit from the emergency measures under ordinary law. In the face of this situation, the Government has released €25 million. As you know, I am not a fan of the language of wood: I therefore acknowledge that this aid has been allocated too late and that we have taken too long to organize it, with the sector – I stress this point – the modalities. Discussions with stakeholders lasted until the end of the year, even though the aid concerned the period of spring 2020. I would add that, like all aid to support specific markets, it was necessary, once its criteria had been defined with the professionals, to notify it in Brussels and to have it approved by the European Commission. Nevertheless, for horticultural farmers, the process is far too long, as the promised funds are still not coming. Be assured in any case that I fight every day to speed it up. As for your comment on the recovery plan, I find it severe. For the moment, we have worked well with the industry. The section on the structuring of the sector has received an envelope of more than EUR 50 million. Professionals were invited to file their files and I was not informed of any grievances about the complexity of the system. On the contrary, the measures we have developed are so simple that some people tell me that the agricultural recovery plan is moving too fast. However, I hear your comment, which we can discuss later if you wish. Finally, I come to the public order, which is indeed an important lever for action by the State, but also by local authorities. It must be a tool of our policy, I am convinced, but it is not so much a matter of law as of the will of everyone at national and local level. In any case, if it is today, in answer to your question, to call on public decision-makers to rely on public order to show our confidence in the beautiful French horticultural sector, I am very happy to do so.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u78	Mr Nicolas Forissier has the floor to put his question, No 1280, on aid under the common agricultural policy – CAP – to the intermediate areas.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u79	I am very pleased to be able to ask you a question, Minister of Agriculture and Food. It actually has two strands and concerns the intermediate areas of our agriculture. You know them like me, these areas of agricultural production, which draw a great increase on the map of the national territory, are characterized by a diversity of productions, but also by less abundant productions than in other regions. They suffer from recurring weaknesses, as soils are more difficult to cultivate, yet they do not benefit from financial support from the mountain or from other specific schemes. The farmers and the chambers of agriculture in the intermediate areas have had to tell you this often, we feel, especially in the region Centre-Val de Loire, that we have not been taken into account for years. That is why I ask you, Mr Minister, to finally take into account the intermediate areas, particularly in the context of the negotiations on the future CAP, and to find solutions to help them cope with their difficulties, particularly in the cereals sector. In Champagne Berrichonne, in the Ain and in the Cher, we are very worried, many farms do not get there anymore. This situation actually covers two subjects, on which I have asked you recently in the context of a written question – to which you have answered. The question was how the amount of basic payment entitlements would be calculated in the intermediate areas and how they would affect farmers in those areas. You have told me that many measures have already been taken within the framework of the recovery plan, but that the Government is still only in the process of thinking about CAP aid. Can you inform us about the progress of the strategic reflection that France will propose? In addition to intentions and principles, does the Government envisage concrete measures? Do you reaffirm today in this House what you have personally assured me, namely the Government's determination to finally arrive at solid proposals for these farmers in intermediate areas? More broadly, farmers in the Centre-Val de Loire region and the chambers of agriculture are concerned about the reduction in Community aid from 2023, when the new CAP enters into force, while they have already suffered a significant reduction in aid by about 12% between 2013 and 2019. Minister, can you also make a commitment to examine the issue carefully and provide answers that will reassure farmers in the region?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u80	The next speaker is the Minister for Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u81	Be assured, Mr.Forissier, that my attention and concern are great for the intermediate areas. Few were the agriculture ministers who, immediately appointed, said they would be one of their priorities. This has been my case for a very simple reason: the intermediate areas are at the confluence of many challenges, but sometimes also of a large number of stigmatizations. It is often said that farms of several hundred hectares are necessarily rich farms: this is not true, especially in intermediate areas. On the grounds that the cereals sector is profitable, some also believe that CAP aid should be redistributed to other sectors. It is this philosophy that inspired the last two CAPs, as you yourself pointed out. In fact, in the intermediate areas, the profitability of farms suffers from several constraints, including poor soil quality, and only the largest of them succeed. I therefore fully endorse your observation, and I repeat to you that my concern is acute. These are not just a few farmers who find themselves in difficulty in the intermediate areas: tens of thousands of them are involved in the large French intermediate zone and in the pockets of intermediate areas of the Great East and the South. What answers do we give to these farmers? First of all, as regards the CAP, which I believe is a policy of sovereignty and which allows us to accompany our farmers, it must take into account the singularity of our territories, in particular that of the intermediate areas. The latter have contributed to the other territories in the last two CAPs, but their situation has become fragile. They must therefore be supported. I will spare you the technical details of the means we will use for this – we will be able to return, if you wish. Many sliders are relevant and can be modified, such as convergence or plant protein plan aids. In any case, the intermediate areas will be at the heart of my objectives in the negotiation of the CAP, whose national strategy must be fully defined by the summer. On the other hand – this is the second element of the response – the intermediate areas are perhaps the territories that most need an ambitious water policy. If we want cultures in the middle zone to be diversified, they need water and we must collectively have the political courage to face this issue. Thirdly, as you know, I very much believe in French protein sovereignty. It is also for the cultivation of proteins in some intermediate areas, which could also be a source of diversity for our crops, that we must address the issue of water. These are some elements of the answer, but we could talk about it for a very long time, as the subject is important and I repeat, remains at the centre of my concerns.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u82	I call Mr Leclabart to speak on his question No 1273 on competition in the production of potatoes.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u83	Mr Minister for Agriculture and Food, because of the health crisis, the potato sector is in a very difficult situation. Production and processing will need a few months to regain its pre-crisis level, resulting in a decrease in contract and non-contracted areas for the years 2021 and 2022. In particular, the production intended for industrial processing – fries and other potato products – whose sites are mainly located in Belgium – by transiting to our Belgian neighbours, the industrialists who have left our country capture part of the added value of our producers – as well as the production of potatoes in the state intended for the fresh market, in particular in netting, trays, flowpack – bags packaged under plastic film – or others. Currently, two types of production are experiencing distortions of competition which are urgently regulated. Firstly, the rental or sub-lease of land carried out on French territory by industrialists or by Belgian producers allows them to plant so-called virgin potato production surfaces while freeing themselves for some of the regulations on the use of pesticides and the status of rent. Second, French local companies specializing in the valuation, packaging and distribution of costs are confronted with the non-publication of the decree implementing the law on the fight against waste and the circular economy. This could lead to cascading delays in the implementation of this transition, in particular with regard to the launch of research and development projects to manufacture new plastic-free packaging, the modification of production lines and the training of employees in handling more fragile alternative packaging. Above all, this could lead to a lack of funding by the state as part of the recovery plan – this is particularly the case for Touquet Savour, a company in my constituency. The added value of a production remains in a territory only if the processing company is established there, which allows us to preserve and value jobs and know-how in our rural fabric. Minister, what is your view on these matters?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u84	The next speaker is the Minister for Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u85	Above all, I would like to welcome your action in favour of this beautiful French potato industry, which has to face many challenges in recent months – as you said. We have set up a number of mechanisms to help it, including specific aid of EUR 4 million, which is already operational. However, in addition to this emergency aid, there are two key problems that you have mentioned. On the one hand, we see in the North, most often at the Franco-Belgian border, Belgian farmers or industrialists using our own land to produce potatoes – in their own way – before going to Belgium to process them. The sub-lease system to which you referred is already framed, but such practices pose a problem in the control of cultural practices. Indeed, it turns out that most controls only take place once the product has been processed; In this case, since the product is brought back to Belgium for processing, it is very difficult to control it. Last week I went to the Northern Department to meet with the regional prefect. I expressed my concern to him and told him that I wanted to see controls multiply in order to find a territorial solution to this phenomenon which is not acceptable, in principle but especially for our farmers who, because of this land grabbing, see part of the creation of value eluded them. On the other hand, the second challenge facing the potato industry is that of storage arrangements, which must be better accompanied. This question may seem very technical, but it is essential for the territories concerned. Due in particular to the evolution of the products used, we need to modernise the places where potatoes are stored, which requires investment and therefore very substantial funding. We have already started to work to create suitable devices, but their implementation needs to accelerate – it is not fast enough, I say clearly – so that the potato industry can be better supported in the departments concerned.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u86	The floor is open to Mr. Jacques Cattin to put his question, No. 1279, concerning the decontamination of the PCUK site in Alsace.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u87	My question, to which I associate our colleague Yves Hemedinger, Member of Parliament for Colmar, is addressed to Mrs Pompili, Minister for the ecological transition, and concerns the announcement of the release of an envelope of 50 million euros allocated for the decontamination of several sites in Alsace, including that of an old gravel to the east of the municipality of Wintzenheim in the Haut-Rhin. On this site, known as PCUK – chemicals Ugine Kuhlmann – 750 tons of lindane residues were buried in the 1970s.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u88	Ouch, ouch, ouch!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u89	These residues include the HCH component – hexachlorocyclohexane – and its isomers, highly carcinogenic and potentially causing severe disorders of the nervous, immune, renal and hepatic systems. Currently, this site is protected by an impermeable polyethylene membrane and groundwater is under continuous monitoring. Regular controls indicate that the pollution plume is stable, but some concentrations remain at very high levels, in the order of 1871 micrograms per litre, while the potability threshold is 0.5 microgram per litre. It is therefore understandable that measures to restrict the use of groundwater have been put in place and that this site imposes special vigilance, especially since its area seems to evolve as a migrant towards the colmarian agglomeration, which has tens of thousands of inhabitants, and towards a market gardening sector. The Ministry's financial commitment will allow for the sustainable rehabilitation of this area and the deployment of an ambitious plan to protect the Alsatian groundwater. For the PCUK site itself, this plan should result in the complete destocking of pollutants and the disposal of ultimate waste.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u90	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u91	In order for this operation to be completed, it requires a shift in funds, which must be commensurate with the needs. In this context, it would be appropriate to set up a steering committee involving local elected representatives, as they must fully participate in the success of this clean-up. So, Minister Delegate, can you give us more details on how the resources allocated to the clean-up plan for the Wintzenheim site are changing, and on the practical arrangements for this operation – studies, timetables and the association of local actors?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u92	All right, Jacques, congratulations! Very good question!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u93	The next speaker is the Minister for Transport.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u94	You are questioning Minister Barbara Pompili, who, unable to be present, asked me to answer you. In the 1980s, under the control of the State services, a containment was put in place by the company PCUK for the reasons you mentioned. Following its judicial liquidation in the late 1990s, the state mandated ADEME – the Agency for the Environment and Energy Control – to ensure the site's safety. In 2018, the Prefect in turn commissioned ADEME to continue monitoring groundwater and maintenance of containment for the period 2019-2022, to conduct studies on the behaviour of pollutants and to put in place a system for regulating access with signage. To date, the total amount committed by ADEME for this site is €1.4 million. In mid-January 2021 it transmitted to the mayors of Colmar and Wintzenheim the results of the monitoring campaigns carried out in July and November 2020. These show a stability of the groundwater plume relative to the results of the previous four-year campaigns and a match between the perimeter of this plume and that of the 2015 prefectural restriction order. Unless postponed due to the health crisis, the next collection campaign should be carried out by ADEME next April and, as you know, the minister announced on 18 January the release of a financial envelope of 50 million euros, placed under the direction of ADEME and dedicated to a plan to protect the tableau of Alsace for the next five years. It is primarily intended to treat the former PCUK site in Wintzenheim. Due to the presence of pure lindane, the excavation of these 750 tonnes of waste is estimated at several tens of millions of euros. Such a project will take several years to complete and a precise study of waste disposal must be carried out by ADEME. The plan to protect the tableau d'Alsace must be shared locally; Thus, as you wish, the Government has asked the Prefect of Haut-Rhin to set up a steering committee with broad participation of the elected representatives.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u95	Mr. Jacques Cattin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u96	Thank you for that clarification. Of course, a cost-benefit assessment of this rehabilitation will have to be made taking into account site management and soil pollution. As you pointed out, the operation will probably also require prior studies, including health risk assessment. It is therefore important that you communicate to us, as well as to the services of ADEME and to the mayors of Colmar and Wintzenheim, a precise roadmap and planning.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u97	Mrs Agnès Thill has the floor to put her question, No 1290, on wind turbines.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u98	Deputy Minister, I would like to alert you to the growing sling wind in the country against wind turbines. Across France, there are more than 2000 associations that pursue appeals against almost all wind farms projects. Many local authorities vote on motions to stop the installation of wind turbines on their territory. Despite the contestation of these hundreds of thousands of French people, who are not listened to, you are continuing the anarchic development of wind farms and we are arriving at serious situations of saturation, particularly in the Hauts-de-France and in the north of my constituency of the Oise. Since the abolition of wind development zones, promoters are no longer following rules and opaque practices are regularly noted with regard to the information, consultation and decision-making processes – not to mention financial corruption – without the public authorities being moved by them. Many parliamentary initiatives are being undertaken, both here and in the Senate, but they do not succeed in moving the Government. Working groups were formed at the initiative of the Ministry of Ecological Transition, but only one meeting was held in one year. Where are the conclusions of the scientific and medical studies promised? Today, no scientists can guarantee the safety of the implantation of wind turbines on health and many tangible facts of "windian syndrome" are identified. The Minister of Ecological Transition recently stated that "each territory" must "take its part" in the development of wind energy, and that it wants to "improve planning [...] in consultation with local actors". This is very good, but above all we would like to see a review of the decision-making process, so that the municipalities, instead of simply being consulted, have real decision-making authority. A saturation threshold must be established because the Hauts-de-France, which alone account for 30% of the wind turbines installed in the national territory, are saturated. There is a need to reintroduce confidence in the debate because transparency and consultation are terribly lacking. So, what does the Government intend to do to address such problems regarding wind turbines?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u99	The next speaker is the Minister for Transport.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u100	You are questioning Minister Barbara Pompili, who, unable to be present, asked me to answer you. As you pointed out, Parliament has adopted ambitious targets for the development of electric renewable energy. France's electricity production will have to be 40% renewable by 2030. To achieve these objectives, we therefore need to develop wind energy; studies emphasize its effectiveness in securing our supply. In 2019, wind production prevented the emission of the equivalent of almost 8 million vehicles and covered more than 7% of French consumption. The Government shares your desire to improve wind energy development planning, supported by local and regional authorities. This is why, in the draft law on combating climate change and strengthening resilience in response to its effects, a regional variation of the PPE's renewable energy objectives – multi-annual energy programming – is proposed in consultation with regions and communities. This will make it possible to allocate the development objectives of each renewable energy, including wind energy, according to the potential and specificities of the regions. The SRADDET – regional planning, sustainable development and territorial equality schemes – will have to contain energy objectives compatible with this regional distribution. The provisions of the SRADDET will subsequently be applicable to local urban planning documents such as SCOTs – territorial coherence schemes – or PLUs – local urban planning plans. In addition, regional prefects will be responsible for establishing non-binding mappings to identify areas suitable for wind development. Finally, you stressed the importance of consultation with local elected officials. The regulations already guarantee their involvement in the process of authorizing a wind installation, and their opinion is systematically sought during the public investigation. The law on the acceleration and simplification of public action – ASAP – reinforces this framework. To further enhance transparency on wind energy development, a website accessible to all will soon be made available online.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u101	Mrs Agnes Chill has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u102	Their opinion, Minister Delegate, is advisory and not decision-making. More than 15,000 land-based wind turbines are expected to be installed on French territory by 2035, which will lead to massive artificialisation of rural soils and the creation of colossal industrial waste plants if no action is taken to force the promoters to dismantle and recycle all the materials they have scattered on and in French soil. The Order of 22 June 2020 lays down rules for the dismantling of these facilities, but they are incredibly lax about the environmental monitoring of waste management and the remediation of sites. This is a serious failure of the State, with regard to its obligation to protect citizens, biodiversity and the environment, and a real offence of ecocide. The current wind energy development plan is a financial scandal: a poor population is confronted with financial and commercial compressor rollers, supported by an administration subject to the objectives defined by the Government. Grants for the development of wind energy in France, amounting to 150 billion euros of commitment for the next 20 years, are financed by our taxes. At the same time, residents are witnessing a 30-40 per cent drop in the value of their home. This environmental scandal – visual saturation, degradation of the living environment and heritage, devastation of our landscapes and damage to biodiversity – does not seem to move the usual environmental defenders. With regard to the health scandal, we can no longer ignore the emergence of tinnitus, headaches, dizziness, depressive states – different symptoms related to wind turbines. For cows, it is a real disaster: there is an overmortality of herds located near the wind farms. We must not avoid these subjects, and we will not avoid them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u103	Mr Jean-Félix Acquaviva has the floor to put his question, No. 1285, on the public waste service in Corsica.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u104	The Act of 3 August 2009, known as Grenelle 1, provides that eco-organisms in the packaging industry, in this case Citeo, are obliged to cover 80% of the net reference costs of an "optimised" service for the collection and sorting of household packaging waste. Citeo does not pay 80% of the operating costs actually observed by the communities, as this is a lump sum cost that does not correspond to a weighted average. The island and mountainous territories, like Corsica, are subject to a combination of structural constraints which generate additional costs, resulting from the low population density, the very long journey times between the various poles, the high frequency of collection and an increased tourist seasonality which increases the population a few months in the year. As a result, waste treatment, recovery or recycling systems are restricted, if not non-existent. The systematic export of sorted waste is often the only way out: the comings and goings of trucks and boats have a financial but also environmental cost. Moreover, we have to face a perverse effect: the almost forced export of sorted materials, because of the search for a threshold of sufficient volumes by eco-organisms, does not encourage the creation of recycling channels on the spot. This situation is reinforced by the fact that the sorted material belongs not to the community but to the eco-organism. Article 8 of the Act of 10 February 2020 on combating waste and the circular economy provides for increased support from eco-organisms to overseas communities, taking into account "the remoteness, insularity and low maturity of waste treatment systems in these territories". The situation in Corsica is the same. According to the ADEME – Agency for the Environment and Energy Control – the average costs assisted amount to 329 euros per tonne for household waste compared to 227 euros on the continent, and 446 euros per tonne in Corsica for dry non-glass recyclables, compared with 187 euros on the continent. These structural costs greatly affect the budget of the intercommunities, which are forced to draw on their general budget, but also to rely increasingly on household taxation. Is the Government ready to open a discussion on the assumption by eco-organizations of the costs borne by the Corsican communities of 100 per cent and to consider with us a legal or conventional way of keeping part of the material sorted on the island, in order to allow the development of recycling channels on the spot?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u105	The next speaker is the Minister for Transport.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u106	Barbara Pompili, Minister of Environmental Transition, asked me to answer you because she could not be here this morning. You regret that only the overseas territories can benefit from an increase in the cost of collecting and sorting household packaging by the approved eco-organisations. Created by the Act of 10 February 2020, this increase came into force on 1 January 2021. It is an exceptional and transitory accompaniment, allowing the ultramarine territories to catch up with the national average performance. However, the Corsican communities, whose particularities and geographical constraints are undeniable, have already performed very close to the national average performance – they are even superior in terms of glass recycling. The Corsican communities can be satisfied with this result. The extension of sorting to all plastic packaging throughout the national territory by the end of 2022 must be an opportunity for Corsica to modernise its sorting facilities, to increase their performance, and therefore to receive additional support from the approved eco-organisations. The creation or modernisation of packaging sorting is supported by specific support provided by eco-organisations. Under the Recovery Plan, additional support is provided until 2022 through ADEME, with an envelope of EUR 55 million allocated specifically to household packaging sorting centres. The recovery plan provides further support to communities to invest in the management of their waste, in particular in the collection and sorting of bio-waste and in the deployment of selective sorting on public roads. The recovery plan also provides EUR 140 million to encourage the incorporation of recycled plastic, which will undoubtedly allow the development of new recycling lines.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u107	Mr Jean-Félix Acquaviva has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u108	Thank you, Minister Delegate, for sending me this answer. Unfortunately, it does not answer the question about the 150 to 250% extra costs of ADEME in the treatment of household waste and the dry recyclable – out of glass, I insist – in Corsica. This structural phenomenon will not change: the sorted materials are exported because eco-organisms have no interest in recycling on site, given the threshold effects of low demographics. Eco-organisms are not forced to create a circular economy – this train will come under our noses – as they export the sorted materials that will be recycled elsewhere. Without legal or conventional constraints and a financial contribution, we will not succeed in creating a circular economy in Corsica, despite the pious wishes formulated in great general laws and inappropriate to this territory. My inquiry is aimed at creating a dialogue so that this appointment is not missed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u109	Mr Adrien Quatennens has the floor to put his question, No. 1264, on the Hercules project.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u110	In 1946, it was decided to nationalize energy in France. We then had an operator who controlled the entire energy chain, from one end to the other, and, frankly, it worked well. It was then that the European Commission decided to put its fingers in this system, out of a purely ideological vision: to open up to competition, whatever the sector concerned, by selling to the consumer the idea that energy prices would thus decrease. At a time when no one can believe in it, we are told that openness to competition will foster innovation. That's not true, and you know it. ARENH – regulated access to historical nuclear electricity – is a genuine gas plant which requires, under the European Commission's decisions, the incumbent EDF operator to reserve part of its own production for its competitors to artificially compete with it. From the point of view of the citizen, what is the point of continuing this policy of liberalisation of the energy sector? Why choose private funding – which requires high rates of return – while public funding costs a lot less? Why continue this Hercules project that will affect the price of the megawatt hour? If it were to be summarized in broad terms, I would say that this project illustrates the old adage on the privatization of profits and the nationalization of losses – or at least the most expensive investments. After twenty years of liberalisation and opening up to competition in the energy sector, we have a sufficient setback to measure its effects: from the point of view of the citizen, there is no point in continuing this movement. That is why, Mr Minister responsible for transport, I solemnly ask you: between the interests of France and the French on the one hand and the limited and senseless ideological vision of the European Commission on the other, what are you going to choose?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u111	[[At 10.55 a.m., Ms. Laetitia Saint-Paul replaced Ms. Annie Genevard in the Chair]]
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u112	The next speaker is the Minister for Transport.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u113	Ms Barbara Pompili, Minister of Ecological Transition, cannot be present, asked me to provide you with her answer. Mr President, we share your commitment to this beautiful undertaking, EDF. The Government's sole objective is to enable it to remain a French, European and global energy champion and a major player in the energy transition. The Government defends a project to reorganize the EDF group, in close liaison with its management and has taken up the proposals. This project must give EDF the means to finance its investments in renewable energy, nuclear energy and all the professions of the energy transition. It aims to close the dispute over hydroelectric concessions, while avoiding a re-competition in order to keep them in the public sphere. Finally, it aims to change the – now inadequate – framework for nuclear regulation. For almost two years, exchanges have been taking place with the European Commission, which remains committed to ensuring that the future regulatory framework is fully integrated into European law and is carried out under fair conditions for EDF and its competitors. The introduction of a new regulatory framework must be accompanied by an evolution of EDF's organisation. However, the Government points to clear objectives on which it will not compromise: the maintenance of an integrated group; safeguarding the interests of employees and consumers. In recent weeks, discussions have been particularly intense and difficult due to the importance of the issues. We firmly defend the French positions. Before the Assembly's Committee on Economic Affairs, the Minister presented the lines of this project and the Government's objectives. On this occasion, she recalled that this negotiation would not pre-empt a parliamentary debate on the future of EDF, prior to the initiation of any reform.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u114	Mr Adrien Quatennens has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u115	Because of the effects of climate change, it is possible to experience extreme events such as the storm of 1999, which led public service agents to mobilize in such a way that the French still remember. Given the performance requirements of the private sector, it is unlikely that we would have the same level of mobilization if the networks were privatized. However, the scientific reports indicate that we will have to organize ourselves to deal with climate change and cushion the shock. In this context, there is no point in doing anything other than repatriating the entire energy sector to a large public energy hub in order to control its costs and investments. As you have not answered on a specific point, I rest on the question: what is the point of using the private sector – which requires rates of return of about 10% – while public investment costs so little? You cannot ignore that this choice will result in an increase in the energy bill. I repeat, Mr Delegate, we believe that the Hercule project and the further liberalisation of the sector are of no interest to the citizen. We therefore call for the abandonment of this project. We ask you to defend the interests of France and the French and not the absurd ideological vision of the European Commission in this matter.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u116	Mr Remy Rebeyrotte has the floor to put his question, No. 1276, on the Centre-Atlantic Europe route.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u117	With the Allier and the Nièvre, the Saône-et-Loire remains the missing link of the two Central-Atlantic Europe axes, one road and the other rail. The Centre Europe Atlantic – RCEA route, a north and south branch, is to be completed in two-way gauges in 2023. In 2017, the State committed to spend more than €200 million to finance this project, while local authorities increased their contribution by €90 million. For years, this axis has often been described by the media as a "road of death", given the very dense traffic and its great danger: the number of fatal accidents or injuries is, alas, very high. There can be no question of extending the deadlines for implementation. If the updating of the site required additional commitment, what effort would the State be willing to make to meet the deadlines? As for the railway axis of the Centre Europe Atlantic railway – the VFCEA – between Chagny and Nevers, it must be modernised and put on the gauges for freight and passenger traffic. Can you clarify the status of studies and financing, and what are the deadlines?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u118	The next speaker is the Minister for Transport.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u119	You call my attention to the completion of the development of the RCEA and the Nevers-Chagny line. Securing the RCEA, with the two-track development, is a priority for the State, which committed itself in 2013 to carry out the first two phases of an acceleration programme in Saône-et-Loire. The financing protocol involving the State and local and regional authorities was concluded in 2014 for the first phase and in 2018 for the second phase. I would like to point out that the State's commitments have been fulfilled: the first phase, the two-track construction of a section of approximately 36 kilometres, has thus been carried out according to the initial planning, and the second phase does not so far show any delay. As you pointed out, updating historical estimates has identified a significant increase in the cost of several operations; This work needs to be further refined by optimisation, but not all additional costs can be eliminated, and different funding and timing scenarios are under consideration. However, I confirm that this situation does not call into question the State's commitment to complete the second sentence. As the State cannot bear the burden of the additional costs alone without having an impact on the deadlines, it will seek to mobilise co-financers. With regard to the Nevers-Chagny line, the Infrastructure Guidance Board, the IOC, considered that regeneration was a prerequisite for any modernization or electrification. In this context, funding currently included in the State-Region Plan Contract – CPER – covers the needs until the end of 2022, and credits from the Recovery Plan are allocated for 2021. Moreover, in the plan to support small railway lines, which I am implementing and on which the Burgundy-Franche-Comté region deliberated last year, I proposed that the regeneration of this line be taken over 100% by SNCF Réseau from 2023. The priorities of the modernisation component may be reviewed by the IOC as part of the planning of infrastructure projects in order to feed the 2023-2027 programming of the mobility component of the next CPER.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u120	Mr Remy Rebeyrotte has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u121	Thank you for mobilizing the resources of the State and for the work you are doing with the partners. These two axes are decisive not only for our territories and their economies, but also, more generally, for the French strategy, for freight in one case and for road safety in the other.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u122	Mr Jean-Pierre Vigier has the floor to put his question, No 1282, on road developments in Haute-Loire.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u123	The development of road infrastructure is essential to enhance the attractiveness of rural areas. Three operations are required to ensure the clearing of the west and south of the Haute-Loire department. First, it is crucial to realize on the RN102, which serves the western part of the Haute-Loire, four overtaking slots between Brioude and Le Puy-en-Velay. This section is borrowed by a large number of trucks and cars, making it very accidental. This road development will make traffic more fluid and will mainly contribute to the safety of motorists. Secondly, the circumvention of the place known as Les Baraques in the municipality of Cussac-sur-Loire appears to be an imperative. Last April, I had already asked you about this dossier, which is part of the continuation of the bypass of the Puy-en-Velay and I did note the release of credits – 300,000 euros in 2021 – for the updating of the studies. It is now vital, I stress, to schedule the work as quickly as possible. Indeed, crossing this village is very dangerous. Finally, I would like to draw your attention to the intersection of the RN102 and RN88 at the entrance to Pradelles. The junction is currently made up of a simple stop sign and is in a straight line and poses a real threat in view of the speed at which some drivers are driving. In order to protect road users, it is necessary to carry out a giratory at the intersection, as well as slots of overtaking between Le Fangeas and Pradelles. These developments are essential both for the attractiveness of the Haute-Loire and for road safety. So, Minister Delegate, can you confirm that these transactions will be registered in the next SPC? I recall the list: the realization of four overtaking slots between Brioude and Le Puy-en-Velay; the work of bypassing the Baraques; the realization of a giratory south of the Haute-Loire, at the entrance of the commune of Pradelles; the realization of overtaking slots between Le Fangeas and Pradelles.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u124	The next speaker is the Minister for Transport.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u125	You call my attention to investment projects in favour of the national road network in the department of Haute-Loire. As you indicate, several developments are being studied on RN102 and RN88 in order to improve the clearing of these territories of the Central Massif, which I know well. The proposed deviation of the RN88 from the site known as Les Baraques, located between the communes of Cussac-sur-Loire and Saint-Christophe-sur-Dolaison, a linear of about 4.5 kilometers, is part of the extension of the deviation of the Puy-en-Velay, put into service in 2018. In view of the preparation of the next contract, I confirm that an envelope of EUR 300 000 of appropriations is planned in 2021 in order to update the studies previously carried out and to have reliable estimates. I would also like to pay tribute to your mobilization and action on this subject. With regard to the opportunity study on the development of overtaking slots on the RN102 between Brioude and Le Puy-en-Velay, finalised at the end of 2020, it confirms the value of developing three slots. The funds necessary for the continuation of their study are planned this year and an amount of €3 million for the implementation of the work was financed by the Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region in the framework of the current CPER 2015-2020, whose mobility component, as you know, was extended until 2022. These appropriations could be used to start work on the first overrun niche by the end of 2022, if the progress of studies and procedures so permits. As for the RN88 between the A75 and Le Puy-en-Velay, a route opportunity study was completed in 2019. In Haute-Loire, the study confirmed the value of developing several overtaking slots on the RN88, and of modifying the fork between RN88 and RN102 in the commune of Pradelles, whose current configuration is not satisfactory.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u126	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u127	The study of these developments will continue, as you ask. The question of financing the work of these various arrangements will naturally be taken up in the context of the development of the next mobility contract from 2023 onwards. A first phase of local consultation will be conducted in order to prioritise regional priorities.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u128	Perfect!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u129	I stress that the financial mobilization of local authorities alongside the State will be crucial for the implementation of these projects.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u130	Mr Jean-Pierre Vigier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u131	Thank you for those precise answers. You have to go quickly and write these operations to the next CPER, as you said. The State, which has the necessary control and competence, must drive the start of these operations. I hope that local authorities will be meeting as financial partners, as they are already on ongoing operations. I stress, however, that it is up to the State to push the start of operations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u132	Mr Alain Perea has the floor to put his question, No. 1275, on the eligibility of the Grand Narbonne for the Pinel scheme.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u133	The territory of Narbonnaise is one of the most dynamic of the French Mediterranean arch in terms of demographic change. Under the Pinel scheme, this territory, although classified as B2, had a prefectural derogation in order to be considered "limit of B1". In 2018, our majority ended this possibility of derogation. I immediately alerted the then housing minister about the problems that this was going to pose. Since then, my fears have been confirmed. We see a collapse of more than 20% of building permits; In our logic of land economy, it is 32% of collective housing less. We estimate the rent increase to almost 4%. In an area heavily affected by unemployment, the construction economy is in difficulty. All the work we do within the Narbonnaise SCOT, in close connection with the state services, but also the indicators provided by the professionals show that the population dynamics are not going to stop: it is estimated to be 5% in the coming years. Moreover, this territory invests heavily in the construction of a major port for the development of renewable energies in the Mediterranean, which, as we know, will further strengthen this population dynamics. If we maintain the impossibility of having access to the Pinel system and, in the coming weeks, we are stepping up measures in the area of artificialisation and energy renovation, it is clear that this territory will face a major housing crisis. I would also point out that all neighbouring territories – I dare not say twins – benefit from the B1 classification. I can understand that national measures require prior studies in order to be adjusted locally but, three years later, we still have no answer or even a glimmer of hope, while solutions have been found elsewhere. So, Minister Delegate, I ask you whether, in the coming months, the inhabitants of Narbonnaise, of which 64% of households would be entitled to social housing – that is, the average level of income – will be able to benefit from housing under the same conditions as the other inhabitants of the Languedoc coast, or whether we will maintain this unjustified inequality and, I assure you, totally misunderstood within the territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u134	The next speaker is the Minister for Transport.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u135	Mr Perea, the minister responsible for housing, who could not be present, asked me to answer you. Last autumn, the development of the Pinel scheme has already been the subject of a consultation organized by the Ministry of Housing and the Ministry of Economy, Finance and Recovery. This consultation led to the extension of the scheme until 2024, passed in the 2021 Finance Act, in order to give visibility to the sector. For the same reason, all stakeholders agreed during the consultation that the current crisis period was not conducive to the launch of a general recast of zoning, and called for stability. However, the Government is aware that there may be a need for ad hoc adaptation in the event of a clear gap between regulatory zoning and the local real estate market, in the municipalities currently classified as B2 areas, which are in high demand, supported by significant demographic and economic dynamism. The services of the Ministry of Housing are therefore conducting a comprehensive analysis to identify such situations. The case of Narbonne, well known to the Government, is examined in this context. In addition, an experiment of the Pinel device is under way in Brittany. In this context, a margin of adaptation has been left to local authorities by regional redeployment over the scope of eligibility for the scheme. An evaluation report on this experiment will be submitted to Parliament by September 2021. The aim will be to draw conclusions in order to assess the relevance of an enlargement or development. Finally, other arrangements can allow you to continue your action of mobilisation in the field of urban land: the « wasteful » fund of the recovery plan, with an envelope of 300 million euros and intended to finance operations of recycling of waste land and the transformation of land already artificialized, could thus make it possible to balance urban requalification projects adapted to the specifics of your territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u136	Mr Alain Perea has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u137	Thank you, Minister Delegate, for your full and precise answer. I see a few glimmers of hope for the inhabitants of Narbonnaise on this crucial issue of housing. I take note of your comments and hope that we will be able to bring good news to this territory in the coming months.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u138	Mrs Stéphanie Atger has the floor to put her question, No. 1269, on the departmental scheme for the reception and housing of Travellers in the Essonne.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u139	Since the Act of 5 July 2000 on the reception and accommodation of Travellers, each department has to adopt a plan for the reception and accommodation of Travellers, drawn up and approved jointly by the Prefect and the Chairman of the Departmental Council. The purpose of this scheme is to set out the geographical areas in which municipalities must develop permanent reception areas, family rental land and large passage areas. In Essonne, particularly in the sixth electoral district, this pattern is inconsistent with the daily reality of the territory. The Paris-Saclay agglomeration community, in which eighteen municipalities are expected to have a reception area, has only eight to date. Of the 112 places planned in my constituency, in the communes of Massy, Palaiseau, Igny and Chilly-Mazarin, only 50 places were realized, 36 of which are not at the standards. Similarly, only 163 out of the 385 places planned were created throughout the agglomeration community. The inadequacy of this deployment in relation to the population passing through the Territory results in regrettable and recurrent invasions of the ground, sometimes with the use of physical force, and the degradation caused by these movements. These illegal occupations cause inconvenience to residents, but also to law enforcement officials, who are forced to intervene under often difficult conditions to enforce public order. These situations cannot continue, both for these travelling families and for adjacent sedentary populations. So, Mr Minister Delegate, can you tell me what means the prefectures have to ensure that the deployment of the departmental scheme for the reception and housing of travellers is respected, without calling into question the free administration of the local authorities? How do law enforcement officials evacuate parking lots when they are illegal, particularly in the case of procedures for transferring the general police power from the mayor to the prefect of the department?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u140	The next speaker is the Minister for Transport.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u141	You have drawn the attention of Mrs Emmanuelle Wargon, Deputy Minister for Housing, to the departmental scheme for the reception and housing of Travellers in Essonne. She couldn't be there, so she asked me to answer you. The reception of Travellers in appropriate and dignified conditions is a collective responsibility. However, 20 years after the law of 5 July 2000, only one out of four departmental plans is fully operational. This undermines the balance between the freedom to come and go of travellers and the concern of the public authorities to avoid illegal installations and disturbances to public order. The Government is therefore ensuring that the law is rigorously enforced to improve the availability of travellers while assisting local authorities. These are precisely the objectives set by the Essonne Departmental Plan for the period 2019-2024. The first objective is to increase the availability of accommodation to meet the needs diagnosed. With regard to permanent reception, the Essonne currently has 532 places and thus fulfils the objectives of the scheme. It also plans to restore these areas to their vocation of reception, by identifying solutions for settled households which occupy them predominantly. Thus, 324 places of family rental land must be created by 2024, and other sustainable housing solutions will be sought. With regard to the reception of major groups, the scheme established that two out of the four planned major crossing areas had been built. This lack of reception results in recurrent illegal parking. The scheme therefore required the development of two other large passage areas to accommodate itinerant groups. It also provides for the creation of three mid-way areas to temporarily accommodate Essonian groups for which lasting solutions will be sought. One of these is already being validated in Massy. The new regulations and credits from the Recovery Plan will help to rehabilitate permanent areas, particularly in the Essonne region. These means, such as dialogue and mediation, will gradually respond to the problems you have raised.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u142	Mrs Stéphanie Atger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u143	Thank you, Minister Delegate, for all these clarifications which give a glimmer of hope to the local actors involved.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u144	Mr Paul-André Colombani spoke of his question, No. 1286, concerning the purchase of non-school books by communities from bookstores.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u145	Madam Minister of Culture, I would like to ask you about the implementation of the book purchase plan from bookstores by the local authorities' media libraries. Josepha Giacometti, member of the Executive Council of Corsica, raised this issue with me. The Government presented this measure with the aim of accompanying, in 2021 and 2022, the resumption of activity of local bookstores, an essential link in cultural commerce in the territories. This procurement plan is financed to the tune of 5 million euros in 2021 and 5 million euros in 2022, in order to support the acquisitions of the media libraries of the local authorities. However, the obstacle to local purchases of books by local authorities is not both financial and legal. In fact, despite the law on the single price of books and the relaxation of the public purchasing regime for books by the reform of the law of public order, the threshold for exemption from procedure and advertising has been set, since 2016, at 90000 euros for public contracts for the supply of non-school books ordered by the local authorities. However, the award of these public contracts has for several years become a source of tension between the various players in the bookshop, with markets falling very regularly to major players in the book trade rather than to local bookstores which do not have the same engineering as the latter: despite the single pricing, the conditions of award are very constrained by French law and European law, which in particular prevents the territorial authorities from including a geographical criterion in their invitation to tender. In fact, many local authorities find themselves unable to support local bookstores by placing large orders from local bookstores. A further relaxation of the threshold for the procedure and publicity of public procurement of non-school books could, if aligned with the threshold for supplies and services of local authorities – in other words, by raising it from 90,000 euros to 209000 euros – facilitate the implementation of the procurement plan deployed by the Government. What are the Government's intentions on the evolution of the criteria for awarding public contracts for books? What measures do you intend to take to improve the access of local bookstores to the public order?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u146	The Minister for Culture has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u147	Thank you for addressing this very important issue. While the sale of books to public purchasers is less profitable for book shops than the sale of books to individuals, it should be stressed that the award of a public contract may constitute an element of economic stabilization, particularly for independent bookstores. The relaxation of the public purchasing regime for books carried out by the decree of 25 March 2016 has eased the procedure and made it easier for bookstores to access public book markets. As of 1 April 2016, certain public purchasers, including local authorities, may use a procedure without advertising or prior competition for purchases of non-school books of less than or equal to 90000 euros without taxes. This important step has taken full effect in recent years, with the gradual renewal of the contracts being executed. The Government has made the revival of the sector a priority: for example, 10 million euros will be dedicated to the purchase of books by libraries in the years 2021 and 2022, as part of the France Recovery Plan. In this context, raising the exemption thresholds for book purchases that you refer to would have several advantages. It would respond to the problem posed by inter-communal groupings and the increase in acquisition budgets; it would be an administrative simplification measure which would facilitate the tasks of the services of the communities, but also the applications of the companies; Finally, it would benefit a higher number of local bookstores which would thus have access to more markets, since the measure would concern, according to estimates, territories with a population of up to 160000. I therefore fully share your objective, especially since the European Union intends to make public procurement an instrument for the revival of the economy. In connection with the Ministry of Economy, Finance and Recovery, my services are examining the proposal that you are relaying to raise the threshold to 139000 euros for central services and 214000 euros for local and regional authorities. I cannot give you a firm answer today, but I really hope that we will reach a successful outcome. I will not fail to keep you, as well as the national representation as a whole, informed of any regulatory developments in public procurement to increase the access of local bookstores to public procurement.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u148	Mr Paul-André Colombani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u149	Thank you, Minister, for that specific answer. In these difficult times, the expectation of the cultural world, on the ground, is strong.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u150	Mr Michel Larive, speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, raised his question No 1263 on the situation of tourism.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u151	Minister for Public Accounts, the tourism economy is hit hard by the crisis we are going through. In my constituency, in Ariège, several restaurateurs fear, among other things, that they will never be able to repay the PGE – a state-guaranteed loan – that they have contracted and that they will have to put the key under the door. Do you not think that the repayment period of these loans should be extended beyond five years in order to avoid the expected disaster? Some have explained to me that the terms of payment of the solidarity fund are not fair. This fund is paid only to companies with turnover losses of more than 50%. However, many professionals maintain a partial activity and the decline in their turnover remains below this threshold. Could it not be envisaged that the aid would be paid in proportion to the turnover achieved? Finally, in Ariège, as in many other departments, the situation of seasonal workers, who are indispensable parts of the tourist economy, is equally worrying. Partial unemployment affects all ski lift seasonal workers. Can you assure us that the aid scheme which must guarantee employment in this sector will be extended until the theoretical end of the winter season, i.e. early April 2021? Seasonals in the hotel, coffee and catering sectors are among the hardest hit. In Ariège, their number fell from 50% to 60% in 2020. The €900 premium set up to help this category of precarious workers is largely insufficient and far too discriminating. Indeed, to be able to benefit from it in 2020, it was necessary to have worked at least 60% of the time in 2019: what will happen in 2021, knowing that it was impossible for a seasonal to work seven months last year? It should be seriously considered that these workers could benefit from a white year, like the intermittents of the show, for example. Minister Delegate, are you ready to grant this white year to all seasonal workers?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u152	The next speaker is the Minister for Public Accounts.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u153	You mentioned three points in your inquiry. The first concerns State-guaranteed loans. It is an effective tool that has enabled thousands of companies to benefit from a cash flow to get past the crisis. Of the EUR 300 billion that the State has committed to guarantee, more than EUR 130 billion, 90% guaranteed by the State, have already been granted by banking institutions. We have put in place a number of additional arrangements to support companies with a view to repaying their loans. The first tool is the extension of the loan to six years. The second, important, is to give companies who wish to do so the possibility of making a delay or even a second delay from the first repayment period. The maximum repayment period for EMPs is governed by Community rules: the delay of the first maturity reduces the duration of the repayment. With Bruno Le Maire, we are working on the search for flexibility in the total duration of reimbursement of EMPs. We have accompanied this measure with two important provisions to reassure the entrepreneurs who listen to us. The first concerns SMEs: the banking sector is committed to capping and regulating interest rates for EMPs between 1% and 2.5%. The second provision is an undertaking of the Banque de France not to consider the delay in repayment of the first maturity as a default and not to degrade the listing of undertakings accordingly. We will have to look at ways of supporting certain companies in a specific way and develop, not as a replacement but as a complement to the schemes already deployed, the participative loans provided for in the recovery plan and regarded as own funds. The second point raised in your question is the Solidarity Fund. We have indeed adopted a threshold, 50% of turnover losses, which corresponds to a double choice. First of all, such a choice inevitably translates into the threshold effects you mentioned. We have not found a method that allows, except at the cost of great complexity, to deal with the hundreds of thousands of applications registered each month for the Solidarity Fund other than by means of thresholds, which apply with some derogations, especially in the wine sector – but I know that you have them in mind. The second choice was not to deflate from the solidarity fund the product of the sale to take away – the famous click and collect, in bad French – considering that there was the possibility of maintaining activity for companies closed by administrative decision and of maintaining a form of hope for traders who wish to keep contact with their customers. On the third point, seasonal workers, we have taken several steps. I cannot respond favourably to your specific request, as regards a white year modelled on that of intermittents, for a particular reason: if we are talking about seasonals – and sometimes "extras" – it is precisely because these categories of population were removed from the regime of intermittentity by the reform of 2014. An income guarantee scheme of EUR 900 has been decided. The aid was paid on 5 February, with retroactive effect. Élisabeth Borne announced yesterday the renewal for three months, beyond the expected term, of this specific aid to seasonal workers, with the hope of seeing the end of the tunnel of this epidemic, so that seasonal workers can return to their activities and live in them, as they did before.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u154	Mr Michel Larive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u155	Thank you, Minister Delegate, for all your answers. The ski station managers first noticed the aberration of the protocol proposed to them: skis could be rented, but no skis could be made since the ski lifts were closed; They were told at Christmas that accommodation could create clusters, but the Secretary of State for Tourism told everyone to go on vacation; the accommodation is open, the lifts are always closed and the traders are always open. After seeing these aberrations, I would like to announce that there is now a great deal of anger on the part of ski resort managers.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u156	Mr Pierre-Yves Bournazel, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, referred to his question No 1260 on aid to newly created enterprises.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u157	My question concerns the situation of certain restaurants and bars, which are not covered by all the support schemes introduced by the State. In my constituency, the eighteenth of Paris, three establishments find themselves in this situation: the Benélum rue des Trois-Frères, the café Hiru rue Duc and the café des Deux Moulins, the famous café d'Amélie Poulain in Jean-Pierre Jeunet's eponymous film. Following the administrative closures of bars and restaurants, the Government has introduced exceptional support measures. The extension of the validity of the State-guaranteed loan and the increase in government aid, capped at EUR 10000 or representing 20% of turnover, have saved many businesses and saved jobs. They are unique in Europe and, as we must remember, in the world. A solidarity fund was opened for companies that started their business before 30 September 2020. However, Minister Delegate, there are special cases of entrepreneurs who, having bought or taken over a bar or restaurant business, have created a new business a few days after September 30th. These companies do not fall within the eligibility criteria of the Solidarity Fund. For the same reasons, these restaurants face successive rejections of their state-guaranteed loan applications. That is the case with the three institutions I have just mentioned. These restaurateurs deeply love their profession; Young entrepreneurs have often had the courage to start their businesses. They participate in the attractiveness and dynamism of the neighbourhood, create social ties and participate in the image of Paris around the world. If they continue to have no help, within a few weeks they will have no choice: they will put the key under the door. Minister Delegate, what new arrangements do you intend to introduce, in order to take into account the situation of these companies created in the first days of October 2020?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u158	The next speaker is the Minister for Public Accounts.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u159	You recalled the situation of the hotels, cafes, restaurants and, more broadly, of companies closed by administrative decision, which are facing difficulties due to the epidemic of covid-19. You also recalled that the Solidarity Fund is a massive tool, since we support more than 2 million companies and have committed almost 15 billion euros. For the December business losses, for example, more than 450,000 companies have already been paid. In the next few days, we will open the January business loss form. This form will be available on-line at the end of February, as it takes into account the latest changes to the Solidarity Fund, which you recalled: the increase from EUR 1500 to EUR 10000; the possibility for entrepreneurs to opt between a ceiling of EUR 10000 and a ceiling calculated on the basis of 20 % of their turnover, in order to better take account of their fixed costs. With Bruno Le Maire, we wanted to create a device for particular companies – sometimes organized in chains – whose fixed costs, very large, can exceed several hundred thousand euros per month, to meet very specific considerations. Another amendment is made with the decree that I signed this morning and that will be published in the next few days in the Official Journal, concerning the loss of activity for the month of January. We have gradually changed the deadlines for setting up businesses. In the first version of the Solidarity Fund, the company had to be set up before 1 January 2020; gradually, we moved that date until August 31, then until September 30; We will amend it again to set it at 30 October 2020. This means that all businesses created before October 30, 2020 can be helped with the loss of business in January and February – as we are already in February. We all hope that, as time passes, there will be less loss of activity to take into account if we manage to stop the epidemic. The three examples you mentioned will be covered and we will not hesitate to change, if this situation is to last, the reference dates over the years and over the months. However, we keep a date of creation, in order to avoid understandable windfall effects, and to keep a reference period in terms of turnover. I would like to take this opportunity to say that, if the situation were to last for several weeks, we should also find references for companies that have been subject to closure restrictions for a year now. The choice we have made, so far, is to return to the turnover achieved in the month of the previous year – at n-1, therefore – or to return to a twelve-month average. From 15 March onwards, we could enter a period during which the loss of business in March 2021 – if it were to be – would be compared to a month, March 2020, which has already been the subject of restrictions on opening or even closing decisions. This will also force us to change our standards. In the meantime, we have changed the date of taking into account, and companies created before 30 October 2020 are now eligible for the solidarity fund for the loss of business in January 2021.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u160	Mr Pierre-Yves Bournazel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u161	I thank you, Minister Delegate, for your answer and, above all, for these young entrepreneurs who are fighting to create jobs, to make an activity so important for our country, for our neighbourhoods and especially for my constituency, the eighteenth in Paris. Your answer will be a relief for them. I also thank you for saying that, according to the evolution of the epidemic, the deadline could still evolve, even if we all hope to quickly resume a "normal" life.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u162	I call Mr Belkhir Belhaddad to speak on his question No 1268 on tax compensation with Luxembourg.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u163	I would like to draw your attention, Minister Delegate, to the issue of fiscal relations with a neighbouring State in my constituency, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg. This situation is known: 200,000 frontier workers, including 104000 French; 57% of entrepreneurs based in Luxembourg who are border workers; very small flows from Luxembourg to France, as well as to Germany or Belgium. In Luxembourg, there is now a resident asset for a frontier; tomorrow this report will evolve, with two border assets for only one resident. This can be seen as something very positive: there is employment, tendingly higher wages and a certain dynamism in cross-border areas. But it also leads to an impoverishment of fiscal resources and the territorial decision-making and organizational capacity. Local authorities are called upon to provide a high level of service in the areas of transportation, childcare, care and training, without tax compensation or the participation of our neighbour. The economic fabric of the territories can be weakened by the transfer of businesses, which also has an impact on tax resources. The recruitment of qualified or unskilled personnel in France is forced, due to imbalances in wages and social protection; the supply of transport must be constantly enriched to meet these challenges. Europe is an ideal framework within which these problems can be solved. These issues are usually settled by bilateral convention, based on principles of shared responsibility and reciprocity. The Lambertz report for the Council of Europe calls for negotiations with the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg on the introduction of tax compensation. Another avenue mentioned, which has my preference, is that of co-development of projects, which already exist in the field of railway infrastructure and which could enrich other subjects such as the training of caregivers, which is dear to me. I would therefore like to know your position, Minister Delegate, on the issues as they will be defended by France at the next intergovernmental conference.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u164	The next speaker is the Minister for Public Accounts.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u165	You are right to stress the importance of cross-border cooperation, which concerns our country but which, beyond that, is a Community issue, given the importance of flows and freedom of movement. For all the reasons you mentioned, the socio-economic areas you have drawn our attention to are at the heart of the Government's concerns – I know you share them. You would like to see the co-financing of 2018, €220 million in investments in the railway line between Metz and Luxembourg and in a few relay parking lots, as an outstanding example and that it is perfectly realized. In the same way, you rightly pointed out that there is a shared interest, on both the French and the Luxembourg side, in the question of cooperation. The Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Grand Duchy himself stressed the need for co-development; We will have to be able to collectively grasp the question of Luxembourg's strong attractiveness, both in tax matters and in terms of social contributions, for businesses and for households. The result is an imbalance, on which local elected officials in your region bring frequent testimonies. This imbalance is manifested by more settlements on the other side of the border, or even by the displacement of enterprises, and thus by a trend towards lower production taxes levied by local authorities. At the same time, the installation of new frontier workers leads to an increasing demand for both public transport and public service in the north of Lorrain. We need to look at how to correct this imbalance, with determination and pragmatism. I know you show it every time you have the opportunity. In particular, you mentioned the issue of nursing training, which is at the heart of the concerns and which must ask us questions, including about the continuation of this distortion. We are convinced that the correction of the gap will be in connection with Luxembourg and not against it. You know that, in the context of the preparatory discussions for the conference that you recalled, the concept of tax return is excluded by the Grand Duchy. He explicitly expressed his reservations about the conclusions of the Lambertz report carried out at the Congress of Local Authorities of the Council of Europe. We will therefore continue to seek a co-financing logic for joint projects in each of the sectors you have listed. This is the road map which the Government is preparing and to which we will, within the framework of our tasks in the preparation of this intergovernmental conference, seek complementary financing and ensure that our neighbours in Luxembourg can participate, alongside the State and the communities, in the financing of infrastructure made necessary by the establishment of enterprises and the development of frontier work. We will also have to lay down – and I come back here to one of your concerns – the milestones for cooperation in the training of medical and paramedical personnel. It is necessary to meet both the considerable needs of the next few years in the North-East quarter of France, but also in our Luxembourg neighbours, since the attractiveness of their hospital system for trained caregivers in France – which you have recalled – also meets a demographic and health need on their part. Finally, the metropolitan frontier pole, which since 2018 brings together all the intercommunalities, must play an important role for the formalisation and adaptation of projects according to local realities. We will be listening particularly to local elected officials and parliamentarians to build the power relations and pursue the objectives I have mentioned, in the framework of the Intergovernmental Conference.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u166	Mr Philippe Bolo, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 1261, concerning the fight against illiteracy.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u167	They are 2.5 million trapped in the trap of exclusion; They are 2.5 million to feel the fear of others' eyes and the humiliations of a situation in which they are locked up: they are 2.5 million to know the scourge of illiteracy. I had the chance to meet them in Umbrée d'Anjou and to listen to the daily difficulties of Claudie, Yvette or Christophe; I felt that their story was not the one that should be reserved for every child, conjugating benevolence, affection and protection. Beyond the cold and dark narratives of their personal difficulties and the roots of their suffering, I also felt the warmth and light of their aspirations, their determination to separate themselves from this burden, to regain the knowledge of letters, the meaning of words and phrases, to open up new horizons, enriched by writing and reading. Everywhere in France, many of them want to take revenge, want to break with isolation, want to learn to read and write, but, despite their number, they are hampered in their project. Madam Secretary of State for Youth and Engagement, this leads me to ask you about the policy of combating illiteracy. Several findings reveal some weaknesses in the current system: social status appears to be the main criterion for access to training, favouring jobseekers, employees or allophones. This priority of status is selective and excludes other candidates, including housewives and pensioners. The supply of training differs significantly from one territory to another; rare in some rural areas, it imposes mobility that can be complex and costly. The training format also presents imperfections, with insufficient time volumes or inadequate teaching methods. Thus, Madam Secretary of State, my question concerns the framework, the methods, the partners and the means to generalize training, in any part of the national territory, without distinction of status, in order to enable persons in situations of illiteracy to regain their place in society and to envisage their future with serenity.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u168	The Secretary of State for Youth and Engagement has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u169	The Government is fully invested in the fight against illiteracy, so that everyone can master the basic skills, because it is necessary for society to take a benevolent look at these people and to empower all our fellow citizens to integrate socially, culturally and professionally. As you know, we can now find ourselves in a situation of illiteracy after, over the course of life, we have lost our ability to read, to write, to count, because of too fragile or insufficiently anchored acquis. For this reason, the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports is actively engaged in the prevention of illiteracy, which consists first of focusing throughout education on the acquisition of basic knowledge, so that everyone can achieve sufficient ease, in reading and writing, to allow inclusion, to preserve the taste and mastery of writing and language, in order to avoid being unlearned and to find himself in a situation of difficulty or even exclusion or isolation. Adults in illiterate situations, whose portrait-robot you almost drew, are more difficult to spot, because this subject is still taboo in our country. The status, you observed, is the first obstacle to accompaniment to training. The situation of these people requires specific care and appropriate training, very different from those offered to allophones, for example. The actions concerned involve many other ministries, particularly the ministries of labour, employment and integration; The work carried out with the Ministry of Territorial Cohesion and Relations with Local and Regional Authorities also marks a path, as they take a kind look at all life paths; The ministries of the overseas and local authorities are finally bringing their stone to the building, as are the competent operators of the world of employment, training and vocational guidance. All are involved in strengthening the action of the National Agency for Combating Illiteracy, which, as a first step, has been perpetuated. A national INSE survey will provide a much more accurate picture for each territory in order to better respond to needs. The network of regional anti-literacy mission officers, led by this agency, strengthens and enhances our capacity to combat this scourge. The Ministry of National Education is directly engaged to provide basic skills for adult literacy. In recent years, the network of GRETA – groups of institutions – and FTLV-IP IP GIP – groups of public interest lifelong learning – has been heavily involved in the implementation of programmes, which public authorities, companies and OPCO – competence operators – have applied in the fight against illiteracy, in order to acquire these key competences. The ministry ensures this on a very voluntary basis. The territorial network articulates the national, regional and academic scales, in order to have correspondents who develop and coordinate the engineering of the services necessary to accompany each, on their territory, according to their own situation and not to their status, in the acquisition of the key competences. Mr President, this mission mobilizes all the institutional actors – local authorities, regional bodies, OPCO, companies and, of course, the Government, fully committed to its success.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u170	Mr Philippe Bolo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u171	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State, for your detailed answer. We must not forget the local associations and their volunteers – I know they are dear to you. They will facilitate the detection of the persons concerned and the installation of the territorial mesh to which you referred.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u172	Mrs Typhanie Degois has the floor to put her question, No. 1274, on delinquency in rural and peri-urban areas.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u173	Degraded public goods, random French attacks on the streets, police forces targeted: these are realities. The violence that is gangrenecing our country is reality. Today the intolerable insecurity that affects the metropolises has spread to the most peaceful territories. The French expected strong actions from the Government to protect them. In 2020, crime and violence increased by 8 per cent in rural and peri-urban areas, and Savoie, unfortunately, is no exception. This year was marked by an increase in incivility and violence in the vicinity of alpine lakes; Recently, several buses have been pebbled, firefighters have been attacked and police officers have been the target of mortar fire. A few days ago, a man opened fire on gendarmes. Beyond these few examples, the figures confirm this reality: between 2018 and 2019, attacks on the nation and the custodians of the authority in Savoy increased from 415 to 425 cases; The damage, destruction and voluntary fires have also increased from 1,391 to 1,552 facts. In the face of growing insecurity, local authorities and law enforcement agencies are doing their best: strengthening municipal police, installing video protection systems, upgrading equipment. Of course, the increase in the budget appropriations for 2021 is a start, but it will not be enough. Indeed, we do not know a feeling of insecurity, but a concrete, real, daily insecurity. It is no longer limited to the metropolitan areas or to the priority areas of the city: over the years, as well as political inaction and lack of firmness, it has spread throughout the territory. Since this is a national issue, what concrete and rapid measures do you intend to take to effectively strengthen the security of our compatriots? How will the unique departmental management, announced last November and set up on an experimental basis in Savoie, fight against this crime?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u174	The Secretary of State for Youth and Engagement has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u175	Allow me to offer you the apology of the Minister of the Interior, who is currently detained at the Beauvau de la sécurité. He asked me to give you his answer. The photograph of insecurity and delinquency in 2020, presented by the Ministry's statistical service for internal security, does indeed reveal a very special year, as you pointed out by quoting extremely shocking facts, to which we must never get used. Your department, the Savoy, illustrates this trend. While most crime indicators are declining, some continue to increase, such as those related to violence against persons. For your department, the evolution remains under control, if I may say so, with an increase of 2.1% in the gendarmerie zone, compared to 2019. Violations of public authority custodians, which you do well to denounce, have decreased by 15% in 2020. Similarly, property attacks have decreased by 25 per cent in the gendarmerie area, and attacks on public tranquillity have decreased by 7.9 per cent in the gendarmerie area. These results are the result of an intense mobilization of the security forces, which we welcome and accompany. As part of its crime prevention strategy 2020-2024, the gendarmerie mobilizes its resources and concentrates its efforts on the various homes observed in Savoie, now precisely identified. It deploys innovative mechanisms to combat crime and better meet the expectations of the population. As a result of this commitment, the rate of resolution of voluntary attacks on physical integrity has been increased to 6.5 per cent, giving the security forces energy and motivation. The National Police, for its part, is continuing the renovation of its organization, which will be one of the pillars to better equip it and support it in the fight against the increase in violence. As you said, since January 2021, a single departmental department has been tested in three departments, including Savoie. The objective is to optimize the operational functions around the main professions, to improve the effectiveness of territorial governance, through a unified command, and to make the action of the police more readable, both for the population and for its local partners. A first evaluation will be carried out after six months of operation. In addition, the Government supports the commitment of our forces. On the quinquennium, at the request of the Minister of the Interior, there will be an additional 10,000 police and gendarmes. These unprecedented recruitment, training and capacity-building efforts are increasing in order to better prevent and combat all forms of crime and violence. Finally, the Ministry of the Interior is fully mobilized to respond forcefully to all forms of crime, within the framework of the Beauvau de la sécurité. The ongoing and forthcoming work pays particular attention to the violence you have denounced and to the incivilities, in order to effectively strengthen the material conditions for the intervention of the internal security forces in all territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u176	Mrs Typhanie Degois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u177	Thank you for that clarification. We need staff in Savoie, as the minister was reminded yesterday, who was visiting the department as part of the Beauvau de la sécurité. The population of the department doubles in winter; 120 reservists are normally assigned, but because of the demonstrations, they are deployed in the metropolises and not in our home. If I were to insist on one point, it would be to ask that the city's policy do not take away funds from the peri-urban territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u178	Mr Hervé Saulignac has the floor to put his question, No. 1288, concerning the licence of independent brewers.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u179	France is the third largest European country in the number of breweries, with an average opening every day. Craft breweries are a sign of the vitality of our territories; They represent thousands of jobs, often in rural departments that they contribute to living, as in my department of Ardèche. However, the regulations allowing brewers to sell their products on the spot are rather vague. Some prefectures require a licence III, when others exempt them, thus creating unfair competition, especially when the departments are neighbouring. In October 2019, the Ministry of the Interior informed the Syndicat national des breweurs indépendants that the brewers producers should be exempted from licensing to sell the beers they manufacture on site, in the same way as the winemakers. Since then, the profession has been waiting for confirmation in writing. Their demand is all the more pressing as the health and economic crisis particularly affects brewing producers, who work a lot with catering, tourism and events. I would therefore like to thank you for indicating the date on which the Department intends to complete the beverage guide to confirm its interpretation and whether, pending this, brewing producers can be exempted from Licence III, as is the practice in many departments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u180	The Secretary of State for Youth and Engagement has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u181	Indeed, the principle of the Public Health Code is that any person who issues an alcoholic beverage to a final consumer is required to hold the licence corresponding to the group of drinks delivered. For example, to sell wine or beer, third-class drinks, the operator must hold, as you know, a third-class licence in case of on-site consumption, a small restaurant licence or a take-away licence. To obtain it, it is up to the operator to make a declaration to the mayor of the municipality in which he is active. As you have pointed out, wine growers who sell products from their harvest are therefore in a special situation in view of this declaratory regime. Indeed, since 29 December 2010, the tax reporting obligation has been abolished for restaurants, in the same way as for local beverage outlets and take-out establishments. Since these amendments, Article 502 of the General Tax Code – CGI – provides that "any person engaged in the retail sale of non-harvest beverages carries on business as a beverage debtor and is subject to the declaration of indirect contributions". The same Act repealed section 501 of the CGI, which provided for a tax return in free form for harvesters. The latter are thus, in accordance with Article 502 of the CGI, placed outside the scope of the beverage debits and are therefore not subject to the reporting obligations laid down by the CSP – professional security contract – and whatever the place of sale of their products – permanent installation, fairs or markets. Therefore, they do not have to justify possession of a licence to sell alcoholic beverages at retail. If harvesters are not subject to the reporting obligation, however, it is important to clarify that this rule applies only to the sale of the products of their own harvest. For example, a wine grower who sells wine from his harvest, but also wine from his neighbour's harvest, must hold a licence for these second products. For the sake of consistency, and subject to the sovereign interpretation of the judges, this analysis can be extended to brewers, provided that they are harvesters, i.e. the beer they produce comes only from their hop and cereal harvest – the latter being processed by them to obtain malt. Otherwise, the brewer must hold a licence corresponding to its sales activity to the final consumer: small licence to be carried or licence III. This interpretation will be included in the next updated version of the drinking flow guide, carried out in collaboration between the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Solidarity and Health. He will soon; As soon as the date is known, it will be communicated to you.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u182	Mr Hervé Saulignac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u183	This may be the first time that, in an oral question-and-answer session without debate, I have received a precise answer. Of course, I am glad. There is only one answer missing, as you said: the date of publication of the guide where these points will be specified. On behalf of the independent brewers, who are waiting and urgently, I hope that they will be here as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u184	Mrs Karine Lebon has the floor to put her question, No. 1267, on the territorial redeployment of the police and gendarmerie.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u185	With a view to the new territorial redeployment of the national police and gendarmerie forces, due to take place in 2021, the White Paper on Internal Security last November provided for new thresholds: below 30,000 inhabitants, the territory would be entrusted to the gendarmerie; between 30,000 and 40,000 inhabitants, the city would be attributed to the force best adapted to the characteristics of the territory; above 40000 inhabitants, the competence would be the responsibility of the national police. Three communes of La Réunion are affected by changes in the area of competence, notably the commune of Saint-Paul, in my constituency, which has about 107000 inhabitants, located in the gendarmerie zone, as well as the towns of Tampon, 80000 inhabitants, and Saint-Louis, 50,000 inhabitants. The new thresholds are a recurrent demand of the actors concerned, who do not understand the reasons why these communes are still in the gendarmerie zone. Of the island's 24 municipalities, only four are currently under the jurisdiction of the National Police. In addition to the demographic argument, it should be noted that Réunion society is seeing the development of new forms of delinquency, which has consequences for the security of the population. According to security professionals, combating this phenomenon necessarily requires a more appropriate sharing of areas of competence between the two internal security forces. This is particularly true in overseas and in La Réunion, where police officers are more often forced to pursue a career on the island, which allows for a fine knowledge of the territory. This redeployment will, moreover, and this is not negligible, increase the chances of the transfer of many police officers from Réunion wishing to work and live in the region of which they originate. I want to lift all contradictions: far from opposing the gendarmes in the territory of Réunion, whose work is remarkable, the shift of these three communes into a police zone would not create any harm to the military, but rather would allow a rebalancing beneficial to the two forces. Madam Secretary of State, as the new reorganisation approaches, my question is whether the arguments for this redeployment, which has been expected for so long in La Réunion, will finally be taken into account.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u186	The Secretary of State for Youth and Engagement has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u187	You would like to know the prospects for the development of the territorial arrangements of the two security forces in your department of La Réunion. If I sum up, you have referred to the coherence of the arrangements through the population prism, as well as with a view to increasing the management possibilities of the national police officers. The three municipalities you mentioned – Saint-Paul, Le Tampon and Saint-Louis – have a population of more than 50,000 inhabitants, more than the population threshold eligible for redeployment between the national gendarmerie and the national police. In addition to these figures, it should be noted that the current system offers an adequate and controlled security response. The gendarmerie is fully mobilized and has achieved very good results. As you pointed out, for the commune of Saint-Paul, the establishment of five brigades reduces the time required to intervene and control crime throughout the area. Saint-Paul's company has seen a steady decline in delinquency over the last five years, from 7693 in 2016 to 5353 in 2020, a decrease of less than 30%. Property damage is also down by 51 per cent over the same period. The municipality of Tampon also has three brigades, evenly distributed. Finally, a brigade, the company of Saint-Pierre, is located in the commune of Saint-Louis: Saint-Pierre and Saint-Louis depend on it and are also experiencing a favorable evolution of their delinquency, with a steady decrease, from 6906 made in 2017 to 5914 made in 2020, a decrease of 34% for attacks on the person. For this period, the redeployment of forces in the department of La Réunion must be the subject of a global reflection, going beyond the figures and the mere observation of the situation, which I have just recalled. No decision will be taken in haste or without consultation with local elected officials: this is the message that I have been asked to communicate. If areas are identified by the elected representatives, the prefects will conduct an analysis work, according to an extremely precise method, transmitted by the Ministry of the Interior. First of all, it consists of making, in connection with the elected representatives, a shared diagnosis – the ministry of the interior wanted me to insist on the word "shared" – and consolidated, as well as objectiveising the improvements hoped for. It will then be supplemented by the necessary evaluation and adaptation work, as well as the evaluation of the costs incurred by the Directorate-General of the Police and the Directorate-General of the National Gendarmerie. It is in the light of this work that the Ministry of the Interior will take the decisions necessary for possible changes, with the constant concern, and which you call for, to bring the best level of security to the people and elected representatives of the communes concerned. Discussions can therefore begin.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u188	Mr Aurélien Pradié has the floor to put his question, No. 1277, on access to school canteens for students with disabilities.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u189	The goal of including all children, including different children, in the school of the Republic is an objective that we share. This is an essential objective, not only for children with disabilities and their families, but also for the idea of the Republic and the school of the Republic. Inclusion concerns not only the school time, on which our attention is focused, but also the peri and extra-curricular times, which we sometimes forget. In terms of extra-curricular time, canteens and collective catering are essential, since it is mainly in these places that the social inclusion of these children is made, and it is often from this place that children with disabilities are deprived. Pricing is one of the barriers that can be observed in this respect. I have been aware of several situations concerning families who have applied to benefit from the ULIS system, the localised units for school inclusion. However, this system does not exist in all schools, so that families do not have the geographical choice to enrol their child in ULIS. In many cases, municipalities charge different rates depending on whether they are citizens of the municipality – residents of the municipality, taxpayers of the municipality – or whether they come from outside the municipality. Families often have no choice and have to put their child in ULIS outside their municipality of residence: they are charged unequally in terms of their situation. Such inequality is unbearable. The Defender of Rights, as the Defender of Rights who preceded her, had denounced her in several decisions. This is the choice of municipalities, but not only. I ask you to set a clear national framework, so that all municipalities can apply the same rate for children with disabilities who do not have the choice of their place of school: it is not possible for them to be subject to additional discrimination. With this question, I appeal: it is high time to adopt a national framework that will put an end to this situation, which is not acceptable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u190	[[At 12:10, Ms. Annie Genevard replaced Ms. Laetitia Saint-Paul in the Chair]]
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u191	The Secretary of State for Disabled Persons has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u192	I share with you the notions of territorial equity, inclusive society and non-discrimination, for reasons that, sometimes, parents do not choose, that is undeniable. The mesh size of ULIS has improved extremely significantly, especially for primary schools. However, there may be no ULIS in the school, college or high school on which the child depends. Article 72 of the Constitution poses a major problem, in that it states that "local authorities are responsible for making decisions for all the competences that can best be implemented at their level. Under the conditions laid down by law, these communities freely administer themselves by elected councils and have regulatory power for the exercise of their powers." In this case, the communities freely organize the school catering service. It is therefore their responsibility to apply the principle of non-discrimination and to ensure the full inclusion of pupils with disabilities, by not applying to them a fee for residents outside the municipality. That's all the work we do with the communities. Community awareness is essential. That is why the State has the following message: all children with disabilities are ordinary students of the Republic school, and territorial equity is structuring to establish an inclusive school in all its aspects. I suggest that you move forward on this issue with the communities, to follow up on the principles of standardization and non-discrimination. However, this will only be possible through dialogue with local authorities. We already have a lever, not on the canteen, but on the extracurricular, with the territorial funds, which the CNAF – National Fund of Family Allowances – can have, to avoid discrimination and to strengthen the animation teams. We also need to work on canteen rates. Therefore, work remains, and this work must be based on both the principle of differentiation and equity.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u193	Mr Aurélien Pradié has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u194	You are right, Madam Secretary of State, communities are free from their administration. But the Republic, the State, the nation are also the guarantors of non-discrimination. Both aspects are perfectly compatible. We can very well determine a framework of non-discrimination, as the Defender of Rights has done, without encroaching on the constitutional rules relating to the powers of the communities. We cannot remain spectators, because these situations are increasingly numerous and difficult. Therefore, the legal means should not be removed from the back of the hand. Words will not be enough to ensure inclusion. On the other hand, we also have both material and financial resources. In this connection, I would point out that school canteen time is part of extracurricular time: it is not excluded, which means that it is quite possible for the State to mobilise specific means to compensate the additional cost to the municipalities. Only a few dozen children per ULIS are involved, which is quite financially accessible. I am at your disposal to work on it, because I do not believe that this can be done in isolation. Both members of the Government and parliamentarians must address this issue in order to evacuate it, and I know that the Association des maires de France et des présidents d'intercommunalité is ready to do so. Let us not avoid the legal framework, which is also one of the tools available to a Secretary of State and a Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u195	Mrs Paula Forteza has the floor to raise her question, No. 1291, concerning the health and economic situation of French foreigners.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u196	My question concerns the situation, in the pandemic context, of French people living abroad, particularly in Latin America and the Caribbean. First of all, French citizens residing abroad must justify an imperative reason for entering the national territory and express their dismay in this regard. According to several consular advisers, who have referred the matter to the Council of State, this decision raises legal and constitutional questions. Is it envisaged to relax the restrictive measures for our compatriots so that they can return to their families in light conditions? In this regard, we could provide for a strengthened health system: an obligation to submit a negative test at the start and on arrival on French soil; medical care and isolation in case of a positive test on arrival. In addition, could spousal rapprochement become an imperative for binational couples? Then I want to warn you about the payment of pensions: delays have become almost systematic and beneficiaries face several complications. On the one hand, the issuance of life certificates during an epidemic is relatively difficult, if not impossible, in some areas. The Consulate General of France in Mexico City had found an excellent solution to deliver them remotely, but the scheme has since been abandoned, with pension insurance companies suspecting risks of fraud. On the other hand, the steps to obtain the payment of pensions are too long, and the National Old Age Insurance Fund – CNAV – is very difficult to reach. What solutions can we propose to facilitate the access of pensioners to the certificate of life and improve the responsiveness of the CNAV? In addition, since the reform introduced on 25 June 2019 by the Ministry of Solidarity and Health, the rate of reimbursement of the same medicine by the Caisse des Français de l'étranger is likely to vary, with equal contribution, from 65% in Argentina to 20% in Uruguay. Such a gap is detrimental to the most precarious of our compatriots, especially in the current period. Can you tell me on what basis the difference in reimbursement from one country to another is based? Finally, I would like to address the crucial issue of vaccines. Our compatriots are concerned about the implementation of the vaccination strategy against covid-19. Many of our fellow citizens with co-morbidities would in theory be given priority in order to obtain vaccination. However, vaccination strategies are very disparate from one country to another. In addition, some Latin American countries, including Argentina and Venezuela, have approved vaccines not accepted by the European Union, such as the Russian Sputnik V vaccine. Can you clarify the Government's vaccination strategy with regard to our compatriots living abroad, especially those living in countries where vaccines not approved by the European Union have been chosen?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u197	The Secretary of State for Disabled Persons has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u198	You have mentioned many points in your question, which gives us the opportunity to recall – thank you – all that France has done for its communities abroad since the beginning of the pandemic. First of all, the Government committed more than €220 million to French people living outside France: social assistance was paid to the French in need; grants have been granted to associations providing assistance to French nationals abroad; large sums have been allocated to the school network of the Agence pour l'enseignement français abroad. Thanks to these aids, thousands of French people have been able to benefit from medical support in countries where health systems are sometimes less resilient. We have deployed telemedicine, shipped equipment and medicines that are not available on site, and carried out medical evacuations in the most serious cases. National solidarity is expressed beyond our borders; This is the strength of the French model, whose relevance has only been confirmed by the pandemic. As far as your last point is concerned, the Ministry of Europe and Foreign Affairs pays great attention to the vaccination of our compatriots abroad, and we are preparing for it in close connection with the Ministry of Solidarity and Health. Our diplomatic and consular network has already been mobilized to shed light on the country-by-country situation and to consider all possible solutions. This work is carried out in consultation with consular advisers at the local level, and Jean-Baptiste Lemoyne, Secretary of State for Tourism, French from abroad and French-speaking countries, has already organized two consultation meetings with the elected representatives of the French from abroad. We approach the situation with humility but determination. The preparation we are considering will have to adapt to the spread of the virus and its variants, to the possibilities offered by the various vaccines as they become available and, finally, to local situations. At this stage, taking into account our knowledge, we articulate our preparation around the following principles: to follow, of course, the French vaccination strategy, with the order of priority that has been defined, without ignoring the difficulties that might arise from differences with local strategies; apply subsidiarity as far as possible. Wherever a vaccine recognised by the European Medicines Agency is available, local vaccination should be given priority. For reasons of responsibility, our line must be to recommend to our compatriots only vaccines allowed in France where various vaccines are available. If the available vaccines are not registered, two options can be explored: vaccination in France during travel when these are possible again; or, as a last resort, the dispatch of vaccines, with logistical difficulties. Our entire diplomatic and consular network will continue to be mobilized to identify possible country-by-country solutions. It is assumed that foreigners residing in France will be able to be vaccinated, like the general population, at the same rate. National solidarity applies to all our compatriots, including, of course, the French abroad.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u199	We have concluded the oral questions without debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1171.u200	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Questions to the Government; Solemn vote on the bill to uphold the principles of the Republic; Vote by public vote on the draft law ratifying Ordinance No. 2019-950 of 11 September 2019 on the legislative part of the Juvenile Criminal Justice Code; Discussion, on the report of the Joint Joint Committee, of the draft law postponing the renewal of the departmental councils, the regional councils and the assemblies of Corsica, Guyana and Martinique; Further discussion of the bill to strengthen occupational health prevention. The meeting is adjourned.
