ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u1	The next item is the oral questions without debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u2	Mr M'jid El Guerrab has the floor to put his question, No. 1327, concerning the repatriation of French nationals from abroad.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u3	With this question addressed to the Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs, I would like to draw the Government's attention to measures to restrict the movement of French nationals abroad and to the possibility of formally creating a right to repatriation or, more precisely, a right to return to national territory. For almost a year now, air transport has almost stopped. Companies are facing the resurgence of the covid-19 epidemic and its many variants. Many of these companies are at risk of disappearing, as States can no longer continue to help them all. In the meantime, however, many constraints are becoming more and more felt for our 3.5 million compatriots living abroad. The Council of State, in a decision of 12 March, abolished the obligation to justify compelling reasons for returning to France, and the Government went even further, since the measure has since been extended to French spouses who do not have French nationality. I can therefore only welcome such measures and progress, for which I and other Members of Parliament have been very active behind you. Indeed, our compatriots who live abroad must no longer feel a little forgotten by the mother-patria: that is why the question of the right to return to national territory, with an inalienable effect, arises very seriously. I would therefore like to alert the Government to the difficulties that French residents of countries outside the European Union still face in their personal and professional lives, and to ask you how we can speed up our reflection on the idea of a right to return to national territory, as well as, more broadly, on the status of French foreigners and their place in the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u4	The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Tourism, the French from abroad and the French-speaking world.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u5	Thank you for this question, honourable Member, because you have been at the heart of diplomatic action aimed at ensuring a return to our compatriots who, a year ago, suddenly found themselves blocked by the re-establishment of borders. A figure is better than a thousand words: it is 370,000 French visitors abroad that we have brought home, if you allow me this expression, with a logistics operation of the most complex. In the Philippines, for example, small groups of French people had to be picked up on small islands to take them back to medium islands, then to the big island, and finally to Paris. All of this was done in active cooperation with you and through various tools that we had put in place with parliamentarians representing the French established outside France and with the advice of the French abroad. I would also like to welcome the work of the CDCS, the crisis and support centre of the Ministry of Europe and Foreign Affairs, which has been the driving force behind all these repatriations. The action was therefore strong, and it was recognised by the Court of Auditors, which, in its annual report issued a few days ago, welcomed a cost-controlled operation. We can therefore welcome not only the effectiveness of this action but also the cost to public finances, even if, of course, when it comes to our compatriots living outside France, we do not count. As you know, we have also put in place a €220 million plan, because some of our compatriots have made the choice of staying in their country of residence – which is normal because, when you set up your life there, it is important to be able to preserve everything that has been done on the spot. This plan continues to apply and we naturally call for the continuation of this social, educational and medical assistance scheme throughout 2021. After having sent medicines and telemedicine, we are actively working on vaccination, in order to find solutions for the 16% of French foreigners living in areas that do not have vaccines approved by the European Union. Again, you are at the heart of this process. As far as the right to repatriation is concerned, it is clear that being able to return to his country is a fundamental freedom, as you have said. The obligation to justify compelling reasons was a very temporary measure, which was eased and then suspended. We have extended this suspension ourselves not only to the spouses of the French settled outside France, but also to their children. However, to engrave such a right in any marble requires legal reflection, as this right may sometimes be hindered by measures taken by the authorities of the country of residence. We have seen in some countries that French residents returning to France would find it very difficult to return to their country of residence – we have several examples in the Americas and Asia. There is therefore still work to be done in the legal sphere to ensure that this right is not only formal, but also real. Nevertheless, the year that has just passed has shown that, when we face these situations, the French authorities and the Government do not spare their time to allow the children of the country to return home.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u6	Mrs Duby-Muller has the floor to raise her question, No. 1350, concerning the vaccination of personnel of exporting companies.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u7	I would like to draw the attention of the Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs to the difficulties faced by French exporting companies in the face of the health crisis. As economic trade gradually resumes its pre-crisis pace, particularly in Asian markets, French companies are faced with unfair competition from other foreign companies due to the delay in vaccination in France. In many countries, effective vaccination is and will be required for commercials who come for marketing or contract negotiation, as videoconferencing does not always replace the requirements of the economic trading market. Many French entrepreneurs would like to be able to give their international salesmen rapid access to vaccination. In the short term, their access to rapid PCR testing is not always guaranteed, which sometimes prevents them from pursuing trade discussions abroad. The queues for PCR tests, sometimes impressive, have also generated an illegal market, with false tests sometimes being produced. We are all aware of the vaccination schedule established by the High Health Authority, which favours the most vulnerable people. However, I would like to alert the Government to the situation in our French exporting sector and to the attractiveness of our international supply, especially as the trade deficit worsened dangerously in 2020. It is therefore necessary to ensure priority access to covid-19 vaccination and, in the short term, rapid access to PCR tests for entrepreneurs exporting or their international trade. How do you intend to respond to this situation?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u8	The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Tourism, the French from abroad and the French-speaking world.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u9	Madam Member, we are all aware that vaccination is the light at the end of the tunnel, and that is why we are putting double bites, with the aim of reaching the figure of 10 million people vaccinated in France at the end of April. The climb is underway, with a rate of 200,000 vaccinations per day. This system responds to a vaccination strategy validated by the High Health Authority, which has made recommendations in this regard to reduce mortality and protect caregivers, and has defined age as the most important factor in this strategy. Major exporting powers, such as the United States, the United Kingdom or Israel, a country where vaccination is also very advanced, have not chosen to target the function or mission of the people vaccinated, especially for the commercials you refer to. Therefore, the vaccination strategy remains age-specific, but we do not remain the export-oriented arms. For example, Mr Franck Riester, Minister Delegate to the Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs, responsible for external trade and attractiveness, has, together with Business France, multiplied events to the Asian market. Many things can be done by means of dematerialization, but not only. In this way, we have introduced a €5,000 VIE Relaunch Check – International Volunteering in Business – to allow SMEs and ETI – mid-size institutions – to use this sensational device, which is a true school of tomorrow's export executives. Business France also organises numerous events and the testimonies we gather are those of companies that adapt and, when important commercial discussions need to be advanced, do not hesitate to devote important resources to them – I am thinking in particular of the use of private business aviation. In any case, do not doubt for a moment our determination to support the French productive fabric in its ability to export. With regard to PCR tests, access to this type of equipment, which is essential for travelling and travelling, is currently very good and we should reach the figure of 100 million tests from the beginning in a few days or a few weeks. The context that has been in place for the past year certainly makes relations between companies more difficult, but we have national actors, tricolor players who are very involved, and I pay tribute to the teams of Business France and those of Atout France, who work with the tourist influence of France.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u10	Mr Guillaume Vuilletet, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 1343, on Support for motor vehicles in the overseas countries and territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u11	My question is addressed to the Minister for Economy, Finance and Recovery, but also to the Minister for Overseas Affairs, who has given me the honour of entrusting myself with a mission on the place of overseas countries in the regional environment in the context of the covid -19 pandemic, that is, in a context of crisis and with a view to regional integration and economic development. The contacts that I have been able to establish during the preparation of this report, which I am due to make shortly, have revealed the problem which I wish to report to you today and which is one of the singularities explaining that the crisis is taking on a very special relief in our overseas countries. The Minister for Overseas Affairs is also very familiar with this problem because, when he gave me the honour to associate me with his trip to Reunion in August 2020, this particular situation was reported to us. Tourism, which has a decisive influence on the economic fabric of the overseas countries – it accounts for about 10% of the ultramarine activity – is heavily affected by the health crisis: I would like to read about this in our honourable senator's report. Going to island territories involves a variety of related services, including passenger car rental, which is the subject of my question and concerns more than 150 companies providing this service to visitors. In addition to tourism, vehicle rental is one of the essential mechanisms for ultramarine economies, and companies in this sector are experiencing a structural problem, which the crisis is making even more sensitive and which I would like to draw the Government's attention to. The problem is simple: for passenger rental vehicles, the tax administration recognizes, throughout the country, amortization periods of forty-eight to sixty months. However, such a standard is not suitable for overseas countries and territories. In fact, expert reports converge to indicate a much higher rate of wear and tear. There are probably climatic reasons for this, but also reasons related to a network and infrastructure that do not always meet the standards we know in hexagon. In fact, therefore, we see premature vehicle wear, of the order of 33% in relation to hexagon. If, of course, it is possible for renters to argue that the wear is found with a shorter time of use, in order to benefit from accelerated depreciation, we can agree that this is an administrative heaviness which they would do in this somewhat troubled period. Furthermore, to the extent that this wear is systemic, the situation has to last and would justify the provision of a permanent correction by the administration. The industry is asking that the depreciation rate be adapted to the ultramarine reality for the particular case of passenger vehicles, and that it reach 33% of the value of the vehicle per year. Mr Secretary of State, could such an adaptation of the tax rules be made?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u12	The Secretary of State for Digital Transition and Electronic Communications had the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u13	Generally speaking, depreciations recorded by an enterprise in respect of leased property are allowed as a deduction from the tax income within the limits of those generally accepted according to the uses of each type of industry, trade or operation. In the case of motor vehicles, the administrative doctrine and case law specify that the normal depreciation period generally allowed is four or five years. However, undertakings may retain depreciation periods less than the reference period of use, provided that special circumstances are justified. The administrative doctrine, which describes these circumstances, specifies that they may result from an intensive use of the property – for example, when the equipment is used 24 hours a day – or be invoked when the profitability of the leased property is not assured – as is the case for rapidly demolishing assets. Thus, the administration stated that, if these circumstances were established, it would not call into question a rate that would not deviate by more than 20% from professional practice. The geographical and climatic situation of a department or region is not sufficient to justify a derogation and the establishment of a use applicable to all enterprises in that department alone. It is for each undertaking to demonstrate that the vehicles it operates are actually used for a shorter period than the generally accepted durations, taking into account, in particular, the use of the vehicles and, where appropriate, climatic or geographical conditions particular to the places of use of the vehicles. A general derogation is not desirable, since the law in force makes it possible to account for the economic reality of the different uses, taking into account the factual circumstances inherent in the use of each property. In this respect, the undertakings concerned may draw closer to the tax department of the undertakings on which they depend in order to provide, if they so wish, all the necessary justifications. For all useful purposes, it is recalled that the minimum period during which investments eligible for overseas investment tax assistance must be retained by the undertaking and allocated to the holding for which they were acquired is the result of both the objective of the scheme, which aims to ensure sustainable local economic development, and the importance of the tax advantage granted by the State.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u14	I call Mr Guillaume Vuilletet.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u15	The Republic is indeed one and indivisible and, as such, it is normal for these rules to apply throughout the country. Perhaps, however, consideration may be given to introducing a simplified form of such approaches in the future. They will be systematic, since they are the result of territorial reality. In the singular period we are going through, we have to support the rental of vehicles, which is essential to the local economy: in addition, it is very difficult to operate the tourism sector without these activities related to the arrival of tourists. I therefore appeal to the future wisdom of the Government – I have no doubt that it will be able to demonstrate this – so that we can find adjustments to simplify the process.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u16	Mr Bastien Lachaud has the floor to put his question, No. 1332, concerning the situation at Lapeyre.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u17	Lapeyre: a name that all our fellow citizens know, that of a company founded in 1931, synonymous with 90 years of know-how and excellence in carpentry and design. The company's headquarters, which now employs nearly 3,500 employees in ten factories and 126 stores throughout the country, is located in Aubervilliers, in my constituency. Today, this company is in danger of disappearing. As a result of strategic mistakes that put her in trouble, Saint-Gobain, its owner, chose to sell her. To this end, it has so far favoured the offer of Mutares, a German investment fund listed on the Frankfurt Stock Exchange. This sale takes place under unacceptable conditions of opacity – Saint-Gobain has been convicted in court for lack of information. Indeed, employee representatives are kept in the dark. And when it's blurred, there's a wolf! This wolf is Mutares, known for its speculative buying operations: Pixmania, Artmadis or Grosbill have already made the costs in the past, victims of a buyer without any business plans, who only seeks to siphon the accounts, lay off and sell the real estate, to raise funds in the short term, fatten its managers and waste its shareholders, leaving its victims exsangue. That's the scenario that might happen again for Lapeyre. The unions discovered the existence of a business plan for nearly 1,000 layoffs, as well as the closure of four factories and many stores by 2023. Mutares will therefore continue to feed on the beast until liquidation: a shame! We have to stop the social breakdown before it's too late. Employees have joined together in the Lapeyre collective and have drawn up a credible project to safeguard the company and employment. For months, they have been sounding the alarm bell, going so far as to alert the President of the Republic. I myself wrote to the Minister of Economy, Finance and Recovery: no answer, no support, no action. Until when are you going to let the cut-off sale of the French industrial heritage? What do you intend to do to save Lapeyre?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u18	The Secretary of State for Digital Transition and Electronic Communications had the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u19	You question the Government on the sale process of the Lapeyre company, which, as you point out, is known to many building professionals and the French who love DIY. Lapeyre has been experiencing difficulties for several years, which has led the Saint-Gobain group to decide to sell the company. In order to find a buyer, Saint-Gobain therefore launched a call for tenders. This is a process used very frequently by companies and, apart from the specific cases related to the protection of our strategic interests – and you have seen yet recently that we do not hesitate to intervene quickly and vigorously in this matter – the state does not have to interfere in such a decision. On the other hand, we are, of course, ensuring that the sale is carried out in accordance with our right, which is particularly protective of employees. Several method agreements have been signed with employee representatives as part of this sales process, and of course I invite each of the parties to respect them in order to ensure the best possible dialogue and cooperation. I will not comment, honourable Member, on the black scenario you have just drawn up, which seems to me to be based on no tangible element in view of the lack of information available to us. At this point, we know that Saint-Gobain guarantees to the sponsor the financing of an endowment representing more than ten years of losses, assessed on those known last year. To close any possibility for the buyer to "siphonner", as you say, the Lapeyre company, this endowment will be allocated to a third-party-controlled trust and the shareholder will not be able to recover any dividend until Lapeyre returns to balance. On the other hand, a liquidation of the undertaking would automatically result in the loss of the entire contribution of the owner's fund, which would not be in his interest. Finally, Saint-Gobain demanded that the industrial system be maintained until the end of 2022. I do not know if there is a wolf, honourable Member, but I know that commitments have been made, on which we will be particularly vigilant.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u20	Mr Bastien Lachaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u21	You have no answer, Secretary of State. You only confirm that very little information is available – moreover, the justice has condemned Saint-Gobain on this point. Employees must have access to all the data: the business plan I told you about, the employees got it by leaks from Saint-Gobain! There is therefore a real desire not to compete with the various takeover offers. If there is no problem with the Mutares fund, why not make public the elements of its offer, in order to compare it with other offers? Mr Secretary of State, your responsibility and that of the Government is not simply to enforce French law: you are also responsible for the industrial tool and its employees. The crisis has shown how vulnerable we were when we moved abroad: our country needs productive industries, workers and factories, but you do nothing to protect them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u22	Mr Jean-Luc Warsmann has the floor to put his question, No 1358, on consumer credits.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u23	My question is to the Minister of Economy, Finance and Recovery. In the context of the economic and social crisis that we are experiencing, it is to be feared that many of our fellow citizens, who have had to resort to consumer credit, will not be able to meet their deadlines on the dates set. In 2020, defaults amounted to EUR 9 billion, or EUR 1020 per family. The transfer of these debts by banks to collection companies aggravates the situation of the families concerned, leading to the many slippages that many of us are experiencing: harassment of all kinds, frequent impossibility of accessing documents justifying the debt and, worse: I was alerted to my permanence about situations of debt collection that were no longer due. I would like the Government to improve the protection measures of our citizens, by strengthening the information of policyholders prior to the possible divestiture of their credit, and by regulating much more strictly the activities of collecting companies. It seems to me, Mr Secretary of State, that every effort must be made to prevent many of our fellow citizens from entering the cycle of humanly and financially disastrous defaults.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u24	The Secretary of State for Digital Transition and Electronic Communications had the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u25	The data available do not seem to show, for the time being, an increase in the defaults in the payment of consumer credits. The outstanding amount of these loans fell slightly between January 2020 and January 2021, with a decrease of 0.9%, indicating both lower demand over the past year and greater attention by banks to the situation of borrowers. Moreover, the number of over-indebtedness files deposited with the Banque de France since the beginning of 2021 is also 8.9% lower than last year. As a reminder, the number of over-indebtedness files filed in 2020 was already nearly 24% lower than in 2019. In our view, it means two things. First of all, the measures taken by the Government so far to support household income – partial activity, exceptional solidarity aid, emergency financial assistance from the CAF, the family allowance fund, extension of daily allowances – have worked well. Secondly, the legal framework for consumer credit is robust: the scheme provides, in particular, for institutions to check borrowers' solvency, in order to prevent a new credit from damaging an already compromised financial situation. It also provides for flexibilities in the event of a deterioration in the economic situation of borrowers, such as the possibility of extending the deadlines for renewable loans or a grace period of up to two years, in particular in the event of dismissal. In addition, in the context of their commercial relationship, credit institutions may consent to carry-overs or payment facilities to borrowers in difficulty. However, the Government, which continues to closely monitor developments with all relevant actors, has already taken new measures to prevent over-indebtedness to households. In fact, budgetary provisions adopted in the Finance Act for 2021 make it possible to strengthen the system of prevention of over-indebtedness, by increasing the target number of subsidized budget advisory points from 400 to 500. Their mission is to accompany households in difficulty, precisely to prevent them from falling into over-indebtedness. Moreover, in February 2021, the Prime Minister entrusted MP Chassating with a mission to improve the banking inclusion of fragile households and to establish new measures to prevent over-indebtedness. In particular, this mission will need to study how to strengthen the early identification of fragile households and their care by local actors, as well as to improve knowledge of existing systems for the treatment of defaults. All of this work will improve, in the medium term, the protection of the most vulnerable audiences: this remains one of the Government's priorities for the current period.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u26	The floor is open to Mr Régis Juanico to put his question, No. 1356, concerning the residence tax on premises occupied by associations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u27	I would like to ask you about the often recent imposition of the housing tax – TH – on certain local government premises made available to associations. In Saint-Étienne, which you know well, several associative or popular education structures – such as social and friendly secular centres – received for the first time a notice of taxation, at the end of 2020 – at the end of a particularly difficult year for associative life, with almost total arrest for many months due to the health crisis. In a context of scarcity of financial resources due to lack of activity, the crisis has forced – and still obliges – structures to punctuate their cash flow in order to cope with the emergency. The sums called for under the TH, which often amount to several thousand euros, endanger the already fragile financial balance of the associations and popular education structures, which have nevertheless not failed to fulfil their mission and intend to continue to play an indispensable role in preserving and developing social cohesion in our neighbourhoods. Of course, in accordance with Article 1407 of the General Tax Code, non-profit associations, whether or not recognized as being of public interest, are liable for TH in respect of furnished premises which they occupy on a private basis and which are not held for the purpose of establishing the property assessment of undertakings. On the other hand, premises to which the public has access and in which it can move freely are not taxable under the TH. Many structures have therefore filed appeals with the department's Directorate of Public Finance of the Loire, putting forward the opening to the public of their premises, beyond the members alone: in fact, a large part of these spaces can host public meetings, neighbourhood councils, meetings or general assemblies of other associations, such as AMAP – associations for the maintenance of peasant agriculture – or even receive students. Thus, on a case-by-case basis, depending on the exact situation of each association that provided a space plan sufficiently detailed to allow for the precise identification of private and public areas, small discounts could be made by the departmental Directorate of Public Finance – DDFIP. Nevertheless, year after year, it is necessary to see a tightening of the application of the texts: the DDFIP now argues that the use of premises ceases to be private only when the opening to the public does not depend on the will of the organization. They shall also retain a private character when the conditions of access remain fixed by the user organisation. This situation is particularly difficult for non-profit actors who benefit from premises provided by local authorities, especially since some structures are not subject to TH, which leads to deep inequalities in treatment. In all respects, the situation in Liguria, coupled with a particularly restrictive reading of the texts, severely penalizes local associations. In the very exceptional context of 2021, where the persistence of the health crisis causes both a decline in activity, a loss of revenue, a decline in corporate patronage and a decrease in the number of volunteers, the very survival of many of them is at stake. Mr Secretary of State, the associations are contributing to the general interest: could the Government consider a revision of their taxation, in order to exempt in large part, if not totally, from the TH these vital structures for our social and republican pact?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u28	The Secretary of State for Digital Transition and Electronic Communications had the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u29	You are right: I know Saint-Étienne well – less well than Lyon, from a sporting point of view, but this is not the subject we are dealing with. The subjection of associations to TH is an important issue. As you pointed out, non-profit associations are in this case for the furnished premises they occupy on a private basis and which are not retained at the time of the establishment of the CFE, the business property assessment. On the other hand, TH is not subject to the furnished premises of the private communities to which the public has access. According to a well-established case-law of the Council of State, this exemption applies only to premises where public access and movement are freely exercised: in other words, the use of premises by a private community ceases to be private where their openness to the public does not depend on the will of that community, but is imposed on it by rules emanating from a third party. Conversely, when the conditions of access – type of public admitted, days and hours of operation – are set by the user community, the premises retain a private character. Article 16 of the Finance Act for 2020 provides for the total and definitive abolition, in stages between 2020 and 2023, of the TH relating to the main dwelling. The TH for secondary residences and other furnished premises not allocated to the main dwelling is therefore maintained. Without ignoring the interest in the action of non-profit associations, it cannot be envisaged that they would benefit from this abolition, which would exclude them from any participation in the financing of local expenditures: the other local taxpayers should then compensate for the resulting loss of resources for the communities. In addition, associations that experience real difficulties in paying TH may apply to the tax services for a pardon of all or part of their tax. Standing instructions have been issued to these services to ensure that requests of this kind, made by taxpayers in difficulty, are considered with goodwill. For all these reasons, the Government does not intend to revise the rules for making associations subject to TH. However, in the current context, the tax administration has been asked to ensure the harmonization of local practices: clear guidelines have been sent to its network.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u30	Mr Régis Juanico has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u31	If I may, Secretary of State, your answer will make a nice leg to the Olympique Terrenoire, to the club of the elderly, to the FNACA – the National Federation of Veterans in Algeria, Morocco and Tunisia – or to the secular amical of the neighborhood. We are calling for the suspension or even the cancellation of the tax which, I repeat, strikes them for the first time, whereas the context does not lend itself to it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u32	Mr Frédéric Barbier has the floor to put his question, No. 1337, on corporate social responsibility.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u33	Secretary of State, I would like to draw your attention to the cost-optimization operations currently being carried out by major industrial groups such as Aperam. Located in Pont-de-Roide-Vermondans, in my constituency, this ArcelorMittal subsidiary is one of the leading European producers of precision stainless steels. The exceptional, specific know-how of the employees of this factory is widely recognized in their industrial sector: for having worked for a few years in the country of Montbéliard, you know as well as I do. However, the company, after having relocated some of the activities of its Gueugnon site to Belgium, is preparing to transfer a large part of Pont-de-Roide's activity to it. Our factory would thus lose eighty jobs out of 240: it is all the more incomprehensible that it has a well-filled order book. Management justifies these restructurings by the need to increase Aperam's competitiveness in European markets vis-à-vis its Asian competitors, particularly Indonesians. The company is a school case: to date, it favours optimisation and hardly invests in developing its site in Pont-de-Roide-Vermondans. However, this could be different, thanks to the recovery plan and if it were to be diversified: hydrogen, for example, would offer good prospects for the future. While the state is on hand to support companies in the face of the consequences of the health crisis, among other things through a colossal recovery plan, as well as through the strengthening of the management of partial unemployment, I ask you, Secretary of State: how can we deter these healthy large groups from continuing to destroy jobs by following a logic of optimising costs? And how can they be encouraged to meet the challenge of relocation, innovation, investment and development, in response to the ambitions of the French state?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u34	The Secretary of State for Digital Transition and Electronic Communications had the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u35	You are asking the Government about the project of industrial restructuring of the company Aperam, envisaged from the end of the year. I can assure you that we are following with the utmost attention the evolution of the social situation on its various sites. As you said: Aperam is one of the European leaders in precision stainless steels, strategic production, as it feeds other industrial sectors such as automobiles and appliances. However, the company is facing competition from highly competitive Asian players, in particular from Indians, Indonesians and Taiwanese, not to mention Turkey, which buys steel slabs in Indonesia, hot lamines and sells them within the European Union. While European safeguard measures have reduced these imports of hot-rolled steel, they are less effective in the case of cold-rolled steel. The Directorate-General for Enterprise – DGE – is therefore working with the Directorate-General for Treasury – DGT – on more targeted anti-dumping and anti-subsidy actions, which would include Indonesia and India. Within Aperam, a reflection on the production tool is under way: the group plans to transfer Gueugnon's activity, which concerns non-gloss products, to the Belgian site in Genk, which has more efficient finishing lines in three years. These are products with less value added. During the same period, this transfer of activity would lead to a redistribution of the workforce: 100 to 120 employees out of the 700 currently on the site. These departures will be based solely on volunteerism and will lead to age-related measures: therefore, there will be no job security plan – PSE. At the same time, the group expressed its intention to invest in the Gueugnon site in order to refocus it on its core business, i.e. the brilliant annealing, to reposition itself on profitable products and to upgrade the industrial tools. This €30 million strategic plan, validated by Aperam, aims to make Gueugnon the European reference site for brilliant annealing. Part of the rolling activity of the site of Imphy will be recovered by Gueugnon, more efficient: the latter could also be transferred part of the activities of Pont-de-Roide, as you pointed out. However, I would stress Aperam's commitment not to shut down its Pont-de-Roide plant and to develop its long-term activity, in particular by investing €3 million in it. Mr President, I know you are very committed to this: the Government will be particularly vigilant about this site and the investment projects that Aperam will propose to ensure its sustainability.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u36	Mr Frédéric Barbier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u37	Thank you, Secretary of State, for that reassuring statement. Some Members and I have alerted Thierry Breton, the European Commissioner for the Internal Market, about measures to be taken at the borders to protect our stainless steel. I also rely on the hydrogen sector: the country of Montbéliard, one of France's most industrialised territories, is at the forefront in this field, and I believe much in its development. I hope that we will be able to associate Aperam with the hydrogen plan in any way possible. If the production of very specific stainless steels can make this company contribute to the development of hydrogen, its place must be assured.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u38	Mrs Christine Cloarec - Le Nabour, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised her question, No. 1338, on eligibility for the solidarity fund.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u39	The massive support given to businesses in the face of the health crisis is widely welcomed even beyond our borders: with an effort of EUR 155.36 billion in 2020, or more than a quarter of the EU countries' spending on this issue, France is at the top of the ranking established by the European Commission. The Solidarity Fund is one of the pillars of this support policy. But traders in my constituency have alerted me: they are in a worrying financial situation and are not eligible for this fund. Two restaurants that were unable to open in 2020 do not benefit from it, due to the lack of turnover to be declared, while these restaurants have incurred costs and loans that they still have to repay. A grocery bar, on the other hand, lost too little of its turnover, while the margin generated by the grocery store is in fact much lower than that of the bar, which falls under the brunt of administrative closures: despite the evolution of the eligibility criteria for February 2021, its owner was obliged to subscribe to a loan guaranteed by the State. Another trader, who owns six ready-to-wear outlets, benefited from the fund only for her company, i.e. 1500 euros per month during the first confinement and 10,000 euros last November. The duration of the crisis and the small amounts paid during the three months of closure have greatly weakened its structure. Mr Secretary of State, while I welcome the steps taken in some way to help businesses overcome this crisis, in the light of the situations I have just outlined to you, is it envisaged or possible to continue to adapt the eligibility criteria to the solidarity fund, or even to make them retroactive under conditions, in order to prevent these companies from putting the key to the door?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u40	The Secretary of State for Digital Transition and Electronic Communications had the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u41	You draw the Government's attention to the access to the solidarity fund of companies created after 30 September 2020, among others. These eligibility criteria are regularly adapted and expanded in order to best support our companies: you mentioned the fact that the European Commission welcomed France's action in this area. Thus, from the aid distributed in January 2021, all companies established before 31 October 2020 – and no longer on 30 September – are eligible to benefit from the Solidarity Fund, regardless of their turnover and sector of activity, since this activity is subject to a public reception ban due to containment measures and they have lost at least 50 % of their turnover. You also tell us about the situation of local shops carrying out several activities. For these companies, it is the main activity that determines access to the solidarity fund. Let's take the case you mentioned, that of a grocery bar. If, normally, most of his activity is based on the bar, he will receive aid as such, i.e. EUR 10,000 or 20% of his turnover; If its main activity is grocery, it will receive the aid granted to enterprises outside the S1 or S1a sectors, i.e. EUR 1500 from a 50% decrease in turnover compared to last year. Madam Member, I do not want you to doubt the Government's commitment to the service of local businesses. The Recovery Plan has created a €60 million support fund to subsidise the operations of the 100 "territorial lands" in order to revitalize our territories. We accompany the Buralists: we have given them the opportunity to sell stamps and ensure the payment of taxes. They can also develop an offer of local services, thanks to the transformation fund which allows them to finance these projects of complementary activity: grocery store, concierge shop, wine cellar. I repeat, count on the full mobilization of the Government to support and accompany those who make up the French economic fabric.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u42	Mrs Christine Cloarec - Le Nabour has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u43	Although not all my questions have been answered, I have no doubt that the Government will be at the side of businesses, especially businesses. Today it is rather a second step: to do in lace, to target, to follow companies in difficulty, in order to accompany them at best and, once again, to achieve that they do not put the key under the door.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u44	Mrs Naïma Moutchou has the floor to put her question, No. 1344, on the dangling of public expenditure.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u45	At least 500 billion euros: this is what the state and the territories will inject into the French economy over the next five years to compensate the sectors in difficulty, to support the most fragile populations, to support the recovery and, of course, to pave the way for the ecological transition. These unprecedented budgetary measures naturally raise the question of the tool that will enable the State and the territories to manage and secure public expenditure and to optimize its productivity. France has the technology and know-how to support the State in this process by means of a digital dipping platform that would determine the use of the money allocated, like a restaurant check, and would provide assurances that they are well used within the scope for which they are intended. Thanks to the dangling, the right amount would reach the right recipient, for proper use. This is essential when a 1% evaporation or waste percentage amounts to a loss of EUR 5 billion. The people at stake are demanding that we provide ourselves with such a regal tool. Actable by all government departments, which can be broken down by region and territory, it would make it easy to assess in real time and to adjust and report transparently on public action. A pillar of a national eco-digital pole, the dangling platform could be a key element of our sovereignty. We have the means: in my constituency of Val-d'Oise, for example, a project is ready. Baptised France Fléchage, he was defended by Alain Schott, his associates and his Ekwee teams. It is up to us to get him into a pilot and operational phase. How could we work together and move forward, Secretary of State, to develop this dangling tool, and within what time frame? As you have understood, I am prepared to make concrete proposals to facilitate national reconstruction.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u46	The Secretary of State for Digital Transition and Electronic Communications had the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u47	Mrs Lemaire, you are calling the attention of the Government, in particular that of Mr Bruno Lemaire, to the proper use of the resources allocated by the State and territories to respond to the health, economic and social crisis and to build France in 2030. We'll meet you perfectly. The concern for the proper allocation of resources drives the implementation of the State budget, whether or not it is in times of crisis. The unprecedented effort made by the Government calls for greater vigilance and transparency vis-à-vis our citizens and all economic actors. Following the adoption in March 2020 of the first amending finance law establishing the main emergency measures – in particular the partial activity, the solidarity fund and the EMPs – a committee was set up to monitor the implementation of the support measures and their evaluation. Associated with parliamentarians and chaired by Benoît Coeuré, this committee has already made public quantitative and qualitative elements of assessment of the implementation of the support measures. The final report, which will soon be published, will provide an overall assessment of whether public money has been paid where it was really useful. At the same time, the fight against partial activity fraud and the solidarity fund has been strengthened, so that we can ensure that the resources granted by national solidarity reach those who need them. Beyond the response to the state of emergency, 100 billion euros are being used by the state to boost our economy by making it greener and more inclusive. The ability to track expenditure as closely as possible to its materialization is one of the main pillars of the roll-out of the recovery plan. Indeed, we can only be effective if we know what amounts have been spent and for what purpose. It is a sine qua non for piloting the plan, so that it meets its primary objective: to quickly restore our economy. As such, you can see that the dashboards tracing the territorialised implementation of the measures of the recovery plan, which are regularly updated, are published on the French Relaunch website. The dangling tool you are proposing contributes to the proper allocation of resources. It is an initiative that I welcome because, as I have just pointed out, it is one of the key principles of State action. The cabinet of the Minister of Economy, Finance and Recovery is ready to discuss with you and the think tank of the proposed tool.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u48	Mrs Naïma Moutchou has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u49	Thank you for your answer, Secretary of State. I obviously grasp the pole; We will continue to work with the minister's office. I am convinced that a dipping platform is an inevitable response to the question of the budgetary resources allocated and to the demand for legitimate public transparency in this regard.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u50	Mrs Geraldine Bannier has the floor to put her question, No. 1328, on support for the event sector.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u51	If the beginning of the year is difficult for all, it is intolerable for some: caterers and event professionals. For these regulars of family celebrations and other festivities, the year is already in jeopardy. Some have, for example, announced the cancellation of many marriages originally scheduled in the summer of 2021, or even until October, which puts an end to their hopes of recovery. Of course, the Government has deployed a wide range of measures, including partial unemployment, the solidarity fund, the EMPs and the abandonment of rents by donors in support of traders, thanks to the 50 per cent tax credit. No repayment of EMPs will be required in the first year, with the option to repay within one to five years. Although these arrangements are adapted to the situation, caterers and other event professionals continue to be concerned that they will not be able to resume the activity that is at the heart of their business. The situation of caterers and event professionals remains precarious and many will find it difficult, or will not be able, to recover. Indeed, this aid is still insufficient for entrepreneurs who have so far been in full operation. Some of them have tried well to limit the breakage, for example by offering take-out meals for the end-of-year holidays, but this is hardly lost, especially in rural departments where the practice of buying take-out meals on weekdays is uncommon. Beyond these economic considerations alone, thousands of families are gnawed by the anxiety caused by the situation reflected in the figures. Extra-workers are also very tried and sometimes poorly compensated. Mr. Secretary of State, what does the Government plan to support, throughout the coming months, these professionals whose booking schedule continues to gradually shrink as the skin of grief?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u52	The Secretary of State for Digital Transition and Electronic Communications had the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u53	Associate Minister Alain Griset has worked extensively with organizations in the event sector, whether they represent the professional field – that of congresses, fairs and fairs – or particular – that of weddings, in particular. These organizations have been received several times in the ministry, and everyone is fully aware of the very specific issues facing the sector, such as the need to anticipate or as the pre-reward preparation work. These imperatives are deeply disturbed by the constraints imposed by the pandemic, all the more so as the virus continues to surprise. For the Government, the challenge was to put in place the right tools for the right people. But the event does not cover a single activity, such as the restoration or sale of clothing: it is an ecosystem. In the professional event, there are not only caterers, site managers, host and host agencies, but also carpenters specialized in the design of stands, signal designers, manufacturers of sound and light equipment, security agents, communication agencies and drivers – not to mention traders and artisans who make the essentials, if not the totality of their turnover, at fairs and fairs. In the particular event, we find caterers, as well as several professions, some of which, such as wedding planners – wedding organizers – are so recent that their name does not yet have a French translation. The identification of stakeholders in the sector has therefore been a challenge. It was necessary to allow everyone to benefit from the most important aid, which has no equivalent in Europe – in particular the reinforced solidarity fund, which allows them to benefit from a monthly option right between compensation, up to €10000 of loss of turnover, and compensation of 20% of turnover, capped at €200,000. These include the partial activity without remaining dependent, the exemption from employer contributions and the support for the payment of wage contributions. I would like to point out that there are also financing solutions, in particular the State-guaranteed loan, whose repayment of capital can begin two years after the conclusion, whose rates are unparalleled in the markets and whose amortizations have also been offset. In short, if the sector does not record revenue, we make sure that in the end it no longer has any charges. We do this not only for him but also for all those who are heavily affected by the economic consequences of the health crisis. I would point out, as mentioned earlier, that the European Commission found that France had spent 50% more than Germany to support its businesses. This policy is unparalleled in Europe and the world.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u54	Mrs Geraldine Bannier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u55	Thank you for your answer. I would like to share a testimony that I received yesterday, that of a 54-year-old woman, who has been employed in the event for ten years, who has not worked since the 2020 Agriculture Fair. It points out that it is very difficult for extras to access the aid, because of the 138 working days which must be justified at least. Often, extras take a lot of hours in a few days: I wanted to draw your attention to this problem.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u56	Mrs Nicole Dubré-Chirat has the floor to raise her question, No. 1342, concerning the rehabilitation of premises in Béhuard.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u57	My question concerns the special situation of the commune of Béhuard in Maine-et-Loire, which has 150 permanent inhabitants. This small town of character, a place of pilgrimage, is located on an island bordering the Loire and, de facto, in a flood zone. Floods, which are more or less frequent, are predictable, predictable and progressive: they differ from those that affect other sites. The inhabitants are at risk of running in boots, on boards such as Venice or by boat. The municipality has little scope for extension to carry out constructions and to set up various businesses or activities – apart from tourist activities – which offers it little financial resources. The municipality's budget is financed by taxes, which increase slightly each year, the agglomeration's aid and the Natura 2000 grant, which amounts to around EUR 1000 per year. The budgetary balance is therefore difficult to achieve. In addition, land use planning is limited by the flood risk prevention plan – PPRI – which regulates risks across the country in a uniform manner. In view of the existing tourist activity, the elected representatives would like to rehabilitate or reallocate old outbuildings of farms in suitable housing to make cottages or guest rooms there. This is not possible today. Would it be possible, Madam Minister Delegate, to envisage, in connection with the draft organic law on the simplification of experiments carried out on the basis of the fourth paragraph of Article 72 of the Constitution or with the so-called 4D bill – decentralization, differentiation, deconcentration, decomplexification – to envisage differentiated procedures concerning floods, in order to allow such developments in specific sectors? Other municipalities could be inspired by this, and the mayor is in favour of it. In the same city, an agreement was signed with La Poste in 2016 for a member of the municipality to pick up the mail from the postal agency of the neighbouring municipality and distribute it by boat in Béhuard. However, this Convention is about to be denounced by La Poste on the basis of legal liability and there is no alternative solution to date, which will put at risk a public service of proximity to which users benefit during these particular periods of varying duration. What specific action can be taken to meet this need?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u58	The next speaker is the Minister for Housing.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u59	Madam Member, you have asked Ms Pompili, Minister for Ecological Transition, who asked me to answer you. The city of Béhuard is flooded frequently and the water flow rates can be high, as the last flood in February recalled. The main objectives of flood risk prevention are to avoid deaths, often due to rapid flows, and to reduce material damage. The Government is committed to ensuring that national solidarity can continue to be implemented for those affected, which means that we do not increase our collective vulnerability. The flood risk prevention plan for the Val de Louet, approved in February 2021, was the subject of close consultation with the communities concerned, in particular Béhuart, to discuss the draft regulation. This consultation has enabled some requests of the elected representatives of Béhuard to be met by creating a specific zoning, REPU – a preferential urban flow red – to take into account the agglomerated nature of the town centre and the culture of the risk that exists there. During the consultation, the community also referred to the possibility of rehabilitating old barns in cottages outside the area. The State replied that the change of use of barns could not be allowed in this area known as REPN – a natural preferential red flow – due to the more difficult evacuation of the inhabitants in the event of a crisis and the least risk culture among the people hosted. In addition, many other municipalities also have this zoning, in areas where old barns can also be found. In fact, granting certain rights to one municipality without granting them to others, in the same hydraulic and land-use configuration, would constitute a distortion of treatment. However, the PPRI regulations provide that, in the REPN area, the change of destination of barns remains possible for sporting or recreational use. Such an opportunity could respond to the plans to develop the tourist activity of the municipality of Béhuard, taking better account of risk prevention, as the use of it would not be linked to the presence of sleeping places.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u60	Mrs Nicole Dubré-Chirat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u61	Thank you very much, Madam Deputy Minister, for these specific answers. We will explore the possibility of changing the situation in the REPN area. The aim is to find a specific answer for municipalities in which floods are not comparable to to torrential floods, but are carried out by progressive water climbs.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u62	Mr Jean-Marc Zulesi has the floor to put his question, No. 1339, on the state's investment in the Miramas Yard.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u63	As you know, Madam Minister responsible for housing, noise and air pollution from road transport is a real problem in some of our territories. In my constituency of Bouches-du-Rhône, the citizens are waiting for concrete measures to deal with it, I am thinking in particular of the inhabitants of Rognac, who wish to see the construction of anti-noise walls on the outskirts of the motorway, or those of Grans who suffer from multiple nuisances related to road traffic. The development of rail freight significantly reduces emissions of greenhouse gases and fine particulate matter. It requires an investment in our infrastructure, especially in our yard stations, which have suffered from underinvestment for too long. The Miramas Yard Station, one of the five gravity yard stations in the national network, has been charged for this: it is no longer at its maximum freight capacity. But every day spent without investment adds a line to the slate of renovation. Regeneration of the existing tool is therefore paramount. But let's be bold, let's be ambitious, and develop other infrastructures. Close to this yard is the logistics platform of CLESUD, the logistics center of Southern Europe, which I visited with the mayor of Grans, Yves Vidal, on October 30th. Its potential is significant, it even has a rail freight terminal that only needs to develop. CLESUD Yard and Logistics Platform are two complementary hubs that can strengthen rail freight in an area where road flow is dense. Madam Minister Delegate, what is the Government's view on these territorial projects that are part of the strategy for the development of rail freight mentioned in the mobility policy law and in our common ambition, I know, to double the share of rail freight by 2030?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u64	The next speaker is the Minister for Housing.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u65	Rail freight is, as you know, a priority issue for the Government and its development is one of the major challenges of the coming decade. This majority has undertaken to devote unprecedented investments to rail. This priority was affirmed last summer by the President of the Republic and takes on particular importance in the context of a health crisis. It has been translated into acts thanks to the 2021 Finance Act, which provides for an additional €170 million in support for the operation of rail freight services as early as 2021. This important effort will contribute to the financial balance of operators, some of whom find themselves in difficult financial situations. This will enable the State to take over almost 70 % of the tolls paid by freight trains, introduce new aid for the operation of isolated wagon services, increase aid for the operation of combined transport services and finance aid for the start-up of new rail motorway services. In addition, the recovery plan includes a specific section on rail freight, which provides for a large investment programme for the whole sector. I confirm that the renovation of the Miramas Yard is identified as one of the operations to be given priority in this context. It will be the subject of a regeneration program that includes not only car sorting facilities but also the rehabilitation of service lanes. We are aware of the complementarity with multimodal logistics platforms, such as the CLESUD terminal: credits from the recovery plan will be directed towards this type of facility. All these investments will serve the long-term strategy for the development of rail freight, which the Government will submit to Parliament in the coming weeks, in accordance with article 178 of the Mobility Guidance Act. The objective we share is to double the modal share of rail freight by 2030. The Government is working with all partners to reduce the carbon impact of transport. Parliament will, of course, be largely associated with this objective.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u66	Mr Jean-Marc Zulesi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u67	Thank you for that clarification, Madam Deputy Minister. I welcome the Government's commitments on these key issues. Allow me to invite you to visit our beautiful riding of Bouches-du-Rhône to see for yourself what potential it has in terms of rail freight, whose regeneration is dear to our territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u68	The floor is open to Mrs Brigitte Kuster, to put forward her question, No. 1346, concerning the ramp to the Peripheral Boulevard at the Clichy Gate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u69	My question is addressed to the Minister responsible for transport. Since 2014, the mayor of the 17th arrondissement that I was, then the elected representatives of the municipal majority, the mayor of Clichy and the president of the departmental council of the Hauts-de-Seine have tried to interest the state in the creation of an access strap to the outer peripheral at the level of the gate of Clichy. She is indeed a victim of traffic thrombosis. It is 4600 vehicles that transit there every hour during peak periods and it is not the door of Asnières, already saturated, that will allow us to solve this problem of road congestion. This situation cannot continue, given the installation of the Paris court and the regional direction of the judicial police and the development of the new district of the Batignolles, which saw the construction of 140,000 square meters of offices and 3500 dwellings. The Ministries of Justice and the Interior are also waiting for this new infrastructure. The officers of the court as well as those of the Directorate of the Judicial Police, at the "36 Bastion", are confronted every day with the worsening of the conditions of trafficking. Recall that the police prefect himself declared himself in favour of the creation of this access strap. The immobilization of high-sensitivity prison processions poses a threat to the security forces as well as to motorists. In the context of the trials related to the terrorist attacks in France, it is impossible to continue to ignore the existing danger. The technical studies have demonstrated the feasibility of this infrastructure and its relevance to deburring Clichy's door. The cost of this project would be estimated at €6 million. At what time does the Government intend to build this access ramp not only to fluidize traffic but, above all, to improve the security of prison convoys and neighbourhood residents?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u70	The next speaker is the Minister for Housing.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u71	First of all, it is important to point out that the Peripheral Boulevard is a route under the control of the City of Paris. Under the constitutional principle of the free administration of local and regional authorities, to which I know Parliament is very committed, the Government cannot interfere in a debate that is the responsibility of local actors. Moreover, this project of ramp access to the device is the subject of a disagreement between the town hall of the 17th arrondissement and the town hall of Paris. The police prefecture was able to recall that this infrastructure would facilitate the movement of emergency vehicles and the prison administration convoys and the Ministry of Transport services acted as facilitators. They initiated a traffic impact assessment, the conclusions of which were communicated in 2019. Beyond this project, the State carefully follows the service of the gate of Clichy, which has been the subject of major developments to which it has contributed itself. I am thinking in particular of the extension of line 14 of the Paris metro, from the Saint-Lazare station to the town hall of Saint-Ouen, which aims to de-naturalize line 13 and to serve a growing area. Made by RATP as part of the work of the Grand Paris, this new section was put into service last January and is a real source of satisfaction. I can thus say that the State takes its responsibilities when it has to do so, but I must also remind you that it cannot intervene in place of local authorities when they are fully competent.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u72	Mrs Brigitte Kuster has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u73	Madam Minister Delegate, thank you for reminding us of the situation in this area, which I am particularly familiar with, and for highlighting the efforts made to develop the public transport offer. However, as you will understand, my concern is about security. Of course, the Peripheral Boulevard is a route managed by the City of Paris but, in order to have met with other authorities – and I want to talk about representatives of the State – it seems to me important that the State play its role and engage in a consultation with the City Hall of Paris, which, at present, is far from the case. I believe that there must be political will on both sides. It is not because the Peripheral Boulevard belongs to the City of Paris that the State must give up in the face of the danger posed by this congestion. He's got to be on the rendezvous. There is another reason why I am counting on you, Madam Deputy Minister, who is attached to the Minister for the Ecological Transition: it is the fight against pollution caused by thrombosis in this neighbourhood. It is not the public transport service that will solve the problem of people who are obliged to take their vehicle. The danger is real: the police commissioner, the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Justice are waiting for a solution. It is the responsibility of the Government to assume its responsibilities and engage in the necessary discussions. This project, I would remind you, represents a cost of EUR 6 million. The City of Paris and the State can come together to bring to fruition this project long awaited by the inhabitants of this district as well as by the bodies of which I have just recalled the importance.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u74	Mrs Valérie Beauvais has the floor to put her question, No 1347, on rail freight and the capillary network.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u75	My question, which is also addressed to the minister responsible for transport, concerns the operation of the rail freight lines, and more particularly those of the department of the Marne which connect the communes of Oiry and Esternay and Coolus and Charmont. Rail freight is a major issue not only for the economic activity of several sectors, including the agricultural sector, but also for transport decarbonisation policy and compliance with the Paris climate agreement objectives. A train representing the equivalent of forty-five lorries, it can be estimated that the capillary lines avoid the Marnais farmers to put on our departmental roads more than 20,000 lorries per year to transport their productions. On the other hand, it is worth recalling that freight lines also contribute to the maintenance in our communes of the territorial network of agricultural cooperatives, which provide direct and indirect employment for the inhabitants of our rural territories. However, the sustainability of this capillary network is suspended from carrying out important work made necessary by the shortcomings which its manager has shown for too many years. Thus, for the Oiry-Esternay and Coolus-Charmont lines alone, the figures for the recently presented developments are 38 million and 81 million euros respectively, depending on whether the duration is five or ten years. Under the contracts they have concluded, agricultural cooperatives must contribute financially and they are concerned for the future of these lines, fearing in particular a degraded use of the roads and, or, a new financial burden that they will not be able to bear. Madam Minister Delegate, in view of these economic and environmental issues, can you tell me what financial means the Government intends to mobilise to ensure the sustainability of the cargo capillary network and, more particularly, of the Marnais lines? I would also like to know whether the recovery plan includes specific resources for rail freight. If so, how would they be distributed for the department of the Marne?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u76	The next speaker is the Minister for Housing.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u77	You are questioning the minister responsible for transport on the railway freight lines of Oiry-Esternay and Coolus-Charmont in the Marne, and, more generally, on the importance of the cargo capillary network. Since 2015, the State has allocated EUR 10 million per year to finance investments in the regeneration of this railway infrastructure, alongside local authorities and shippers. The long-term contribution of the State has thus led to a real dynamic of rehabilitation of these lines, which, in particular, provide rail services to industrial and agricultural sites in the territories. They are borrowed by 20% of freight trains in France and their abandonment would have disastrous consequences both in terms of the modal postponement and the competitiveness of companies, and thus in terms of jobs. Under the Recovery Plan, the State triples its investment effort to contribute to the financing of many short-term operations in order to ensure the sustainability of the lines concerned. The programming of financing will be carried out in accordance with the rules applied so far, with a State contribution of up to 30% of the investments to be made. The lines you mentioned, Oiry-Esternay and Coolus-Charmont, have been well identified within the identified needs and will be the subject of discussions between the state, the region, local actors and SNCF Réseau. Exchanges between stakeholders have already made it possible to allocate the necessary investments and to prioritise interventions on the network. Various criteria are taken into account for this purpose, including the proposed sustainability, the amount of work, the territorial and economic context of shippers, as well as freight traffic on the various lines. As soon as, in the course of these exchanges, a decision is taken on the programming of the rehabilitation work on these two lines, the State will of course assume its share of the investments to be made, alongside the other co-financers. You can be assured, Madam Member, of our total investment in rail freight, with a goal we share: to double its modal share by 2030.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u78	Mrs Valérie Beauvais has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u79	I note the lack of clear financial commitments for investments at five or ten years and regret that you are not more specific about this issue, to which farmers and agricultural cooperatives expect answers. Their actions for sustainable development could not be denied and a gesture by the Government to accompany them would give them hope. It is a land of cereals and this mode of transport is also essential for our environment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u80	The next speaker is Mr Jean Lassalle, to put his question, No. 1352, on the security of the RN 134.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u81	My question concerns the national road 134, called in its time "European way 7". Is this qualification still relevant? In the 1990s, the State and the European Union undertook to modernise the entire road route, consisting of two separate sections: the first, between Pau and Oloron-Sainte-Marie, was to be carried out on a new site, since the establishment of the RN 134 caused problems of urban planning, a very dangerous traffic and did not lead to a result. The second corresponds to the link between Oloron-Sainte-Marie and the entrance to the Somport tunnel. The project planned to bypass the municipalities concerned and bring the road up to standards, with a route of overtaking on the most mountainous parts, the whole to be lined with cycle paths. Unfortunately, the new site of the axis linking Pau to Oloron-Sainte-Marie, although funded for years, has never been realized: we have only made a few ad hoc adjustments, not improving safety in any way. In fact, there are on this section of thirty-seven kilometers no less than four changes in speed! To the south of Oloron-Sainte-Marie, four municipalities have been bypassed, but there are as many still waiting for their turn: the inhabitants, faced with the increase in traffic of heavy goods vehicles, see their house devalued and must withstand an unbearable noise and fury. It was a great and beautiful project, launched by the President of the French Republic François Mitterrand and the King of Spain Juan Carlos 1er. Of course, the current government is not responsible for this state of affairs, but it has done nothing to remedy it. So does he intend to seriously resume this project as a whole and to carry it out, in particular to realize the deviation of Oloron-Sainte-Marie, which is becoming vital, and to devote real funding to it, giving priority to his commitment in the next CPER, the contract for a State-region plan? And what about the meeting I asked the minister responsible for transport? I will come with a small delegation, as I did with all the ministers who have preceded it since the beginning of this project more than forty years ago.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u82	The next speaker is the Minister for Housing.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u83	You are questioning the Minister responsible for transport on the security work of RN 134. First of all, be assured that the State is fully committed to the modernization of this road axis. The current strategy is to favour gradual and proportionate adjustments to the level of traffic on this route. More specifically, between Oloron and the Spanish border, an envelope of €7 million, financed entirely by the State, was included in the current CPER in 2020, in order to address several delicate points of this axis. This amount resulted in the commissioning of a security upgrade at the north entrance of Asasp-Arros in August 2020, as well as the commencement of work on the southern entrance, which is currently under way, and the commencement of the building of the Larry site, which will begin next month. Further north, a national road safety operation between Belair and Oloron will benefit in 2021 from EUR 10.5 million under the recovery plan to speed up the engagement of a first section whose preparatory work will begin at the end of the year. I can also confirm that the state will strengthen the resources provided for in the RPC. The registration of the operation should be increased by EUR 12 million, fully financed by the State, and increased to EUR 23 million as part of the extension of the mobility component of the CPER until the end of 2022. In addition, several other developments are being carried out outside the CPER, such as the removal of the crossing number 24 on the town of Herrère. This operation, amounting to 8.3 million, of which 6 million were financed by the State, was opened for circulation last February. Finally, with regard to the maintenance budget, RN 134 benefits from a route improvement programme validated by a decision of the Delegated Minister for Transport in 2017, at a cost of €3.8 million. To date, 1.4 million projects remain to be completed, of which nearly 1 million are planned in 2021. Finally, I will inform the Minister responsible for transport of your request for an appointment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u84	Mrs Bénédicte Taurine has the floor to put her question, No. 1331, on geotextiles.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u85	Soil stabilization only by plant engineering techniques has become mandatory since the 1992 Water Act. The use of biodegradable geotextiles and geofilets is an essential component in the first few months of soil revegetation, be it river banks, dyke comfort or to limit the erosion of ski slopes. These geotextiles are widespread and must be totally biodegradable, since particles are then assimilated by plants or can be found in water or soil. To date, the most widely used geofilets would be woven in Asia, on a labour-friendly basis, supposedly by children. However, there are no standards and there is no traceability with regard to the treatments and manufacturing conditions, not to mention the carbon impact associated with the transport of these products. In 2018, results of biochemical compositional analyses carried out in the laboratory revealed in their components hydrocarbons, persistent organic pollutants, POPs, and sodium chloride. These chemical compounds are then irremediably found in soils and groundwaters, while sodium is harmful to fauna and flora. These products are all the more problematic when used in areas classified as sensitive natural areas or Natura 2000. However, it is possible to make nets of natural fibres, without additives and on a large scale. Production chains exist in France and have an important capacity for development. Moreover, it would help to support, or even revive, the textile sector – I am particularly interested in you compared to the country of Olmes, which is an economically affected area – and to improve the remuneration of sheep farmers. I have tabled an amendment to the bill to combat climate change and build resilience to its effects, which has unfortunately been rejected. You say you want to encourage relocation and sign up for the ecological transition. What are you waiting for to take steps to tarnish these import chains with toxic content and to give virtuous guidance to the public order? In conclusion, I hope that you will give an opinion in favour of the amendment which I will table at the sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u86	The next speaker is the Minister for Housing.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u87	You draw the Government's attention to the presence of hazardous chemicals, such as persistent organic pollutants, in geotextiles aimed at stabilizing soils on the slopes of the banks of certain rivers, dikes or slopes near roads. Combating the presence of toxic chemicals is a major concern. For this reason, the services of the Directorate-General for Competition, Consumer Affairs and Fraud Prevention – DGCCRF – as well as the customs authorities carry out regular checks on the conformity of imported products, in particular, with regard to the presence of toxic materials. The solution is to relocate a textile industry to Europe, as you point out. The European Commission has recently launched two interesting initiatives which we support: firstly, the commitment of a sustainable textile strategy, within the framework of the circular economy development plan, which was submitted to public consultation in January 2021; the entry into force of the European Chemicals Strategy, which consolidates the steps taken by the Law on Combating Waste and the Circular Economy of 10 February 2020, which made it mandatory to display the presence of dangerous substances in consumer products. This strategy will involve the amendment of several European directives, including the Regulation on the classification, labelling and packaging of chemicals – CLP: Classification, labelling, packaging – the new version of which will be presented when France holds the Presidency of the Council of the European Union in the first half of 2022. Finally, the services of the Ministry of Environmental Transition are available to manufacturers and producers of flax or hemp textiles who wish to diversify by proposing the manufacture of products without chemical substances, based on natural fibres, in particular if they wish to develop an ecolabel, whether these materials are intended for geotextiles or for any other application.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u88	Mrs Bénédicte Taurine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u89	We do have companies in our territory able to manufacture this type of product and it would be interesting to receive them as you propose.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u90	Mrs Marie-Pierre Rixain has the floor to put her question, No 1340, on the floods in Essonne.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u91	She spoke to Barbara Pompili, Minister of Ecological Transition. Every year, the valleys of the Orge and the Yvette, in Essonne, experience important floods, which periodically weaken the building and the local dwellings – consequences not negligible for the communes of my constituency such as Longjumeau, Epinay-sur-Orge, Villebon-sur-Yvette or Champlan, who regularly file applications for recognition of the state of natural disaster. The frequency and intensity of this phenomenon are expected to accelerate in the coming years. In fact, public policies must have as a priority the strengthening of the resilience of territories to natural hazards. One condition for this is to continue consistent action between the state and the communities to adapt to an increasing risk. This is why the competence of aquatic management and flood prevention – GEMAPI – was assigned in 2018 to public institutions for inter-municipal cooperation with own taxation: now, inter-municipalities play a central role in setting flood risk prevention objectives. However, this adjustment of the GEMAPI competence is not sufficient. Eight years after the definition of a national flood risk management strategy, is it not time to update the means mobilised by the State in this area? I am thinking in particular of planning policies, which must incorporate criteria of resilience and sustainability to the height of flood risks, and whose cost cannot be entirely based on municipalities alone. It should also be noted that the increasing urbanization of the Orge and Yvette valleys increases the risk of flooding and the vulnerability of the inhabitants and activities. What additional means can be deployed to prevent the risks of flooding that hit our fellow citizens, especially the Estonians?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u92	The next speaker is the Minister for Housing.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u93	Member of Parliament, the significant events of June 2016 and 2018 indicate a risk of flooding in the Barge-Yvette watershed. The artificialisation of rivers and the waterproofing of soils are, of course, aggravating factors. In response to this situation, government departments and communities have been working for many years to develop and implement a comprehensive innovation prevention policy. In September 2006, the Prefect de l'Essonne approved the Yvette Valley Flood Risk Prevention Plan to reduce the increased risk to people and property of being exposed to it. In June 2017, a new IPP was approved for the Orge and its main tributaries. Since 2018, the inter-municipal union for the hydraulic development of the Yvette Valley, which exercises the competence of GEMAPI on the perimeter of the Yvette, has developed a program of flood prevention actions, or PAPI of intent. This contractual and partnership tool, financially supported by the State, enables the communities of the Barge-Yvette basin to implement their flood prevention strategy, through actions combining the reduction of vulnerability of people and property, with the culture of risk. In concrete terms, an assessment of the vulnerability of strategic networks in flood-prone areas is under way, and diagnostics of the vulnerability of communal buildings in the cities of Savigny-sur-Orge, Viry-Châtillon and Longjumeau will soon be undertaken. Finally, the Government has increased its resources for the prevention of natural hazards: the annual allocation for the Fund for the Prevention of Major Natural Hazards, or Barnier Funds, has increased this year from €135 million to €205 million. Similarly, funding for vulnerability reduction measures has grown sharply, at a rate of 80 per cent. A plan for the acceleration, preparation and implementation of PAPIs has also been developed. All these measures reinforce our collective action, with the increased support of the State.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u94	Mrs Mette has the floor to put her question, No 1330, on Europe of culture.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u95	My question was initially addressed to the Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs. Last month, I asked the Minister of Culture, Roselyne Bachelot, about the consequences of Brexit for the economy of the cultural sector. More specifically, we addressed the petition signed by many British artists, asking Boris Johnson's government to create a cultural passport for musicians. Anyone who knows the strength of the British live music scene can only be supportive of it. While the United Kingdom had little regard for artists in the Brexit agreement, the Minister had announced her support for a cultural passport approach. Before discussing it at European level, it is obviously a British matter. The clarifying crisis of Brexit gives me the opportunity to question you more generally – and, if I may say so, more European. Members of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related Democrats, as well as their counterparts in the European Parliament – I am thinking in particular of Laurence Farreng – consider it essential for our future to see the emergence of a Europe of culture: it is the link that our peoples need, especially in times of crisis and populism. It will also be very prolific – no one can doubt it: we are the continent that invented cinema; we have a unique heritage of studios and natural decorations; we organize the most prestigious film festivals; We have great film schools in all parts of Europe, and therefore highly recognised professionals. Efforts have already been made and projects have been supported. For example, the European Directive on Audiovisual Media Services provides that the catalogue of platforms must contain at least 30% of European works and that Member States may require platforms that broadcast on their territory to invest in local productions. It's fine, but will we go further? There is no shortage of areas of work: a massive co-production programme that can boost the catalogue of European works and reirrigate theatres, investment in artistic and technical skills – especially digital ones – across the continent, and even social harmonisation. As we approach the conference on the future of Europe and the French Presidency of the Council of the European Union, will France finally defend the idea of a Europe of culture?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u96	The next speaker is the Minister for Housing.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u97	The Minister of Culture cannot attend this session – as you know – and asked me to provide you with an answer on her behalf. All over Europe, the cultural sectors have been hit hard by the crisis. If they have been able to reinvent themselves in order to continue to create and offer the public online access to cultural works, they need to be supported. This is the Government's policy of supporting cultural and creative sectors since the beginning of the pandemic crisis. At Community level, thanks to the efforts of the European Parliament – I welcome, in particular, the commitment of Member Laurence Farreng – and to the mobilisation of France, a significant increase in the budget for the Creative Europe programme was recorded for the period 2021-2027. Other funding programmes, such as Horizon Europe or Erasmus+, will benefit cultural actors and young people. The European Commission has also announced a number of accompanying measures for the cultural sector, in particular cinema, aimed in particular at facilitating European co-productions. Beyond the health crisis, the emergence of digital technology is leading to lasting changes in the cultural sector, to which Europe must show renewed and strong ambition. As you have pointed out, important progress has been made in recent years thanks to the Audiovisual Media Services Directive and the Copyright Directive, which is being transposed into France. These advances are fundamental but, you are right, Europe must go further, and France must play a leading role. This is the subject of ongoing discussions on future legislation on digital services, which aims to better frame the activities of the platforms. Finally, with the motto "relaunch, power, membership", the French Presidency of the Council of the European Union will be an opportunity to renew our commitments for a stronger and more ambitious Europe of culture, at the service of cultural and linguistic diversity, more responsible and more egalitarian.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u98	Mrs Anne Brugnera has the floor to raise her question, No. 1341, concerning the intellectual property of a work.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u99	It is addressed to the Minister of Culture, to whom I wish a speedy recovery. On December 18, 2020, the Conseil supérieur de la propriété littéraire et artistique – CSPLA – gave him a report on the proof of originality of the work, commissioned in 2018. For some time, in fact, the French courts of justice have increasingly asked the authors to prove the originality of their work, whereas this provision is not fully enshrined in our law: the judges refer, in this matter, to a jurisprudence. Many authors, gathered in associations and collectives, have mobilized to change this case law, which they are concerned about. Indeed, our right is clear: no one can reproduce all or part of another's work without his permission. However, some authors have been denied this principle, which protects their copyrights, because of a case law asking the plagiarist to prove the originality of his work himself. The CSPLA report denounces this situation and proposes two ways of addressing it: one is legislative, the other is jurisprudential. I would like to ask the Government about the follow-up that the Ministry of Culture intends to give to this report, which clearly sets out the difficulties encountered by the authors. I take this question to alert the Government: among its recommendations – which have been made public – the CSPLA suggests adding the mention of the originality of the work in the intellectual property code, by amending its article L. 112-1. This proposal is of great concern to the authors: the notion of originality of the work, which remains unclear, could create difficulties for judges in future trials, particularly when it comes to precisely motivating it. Can you assure us that the follow-up to the CSPLA report will be the subject of consultation and dialogue with all stakeholders, especially the authors, whose concerns are high?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u100	The next speaker is the Minister for Housing.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u101	Your question, Member, deals with the follow-up to the report on the proof of originality of the work that was presented to the Minister of Culture last December. The latter instructed me to reply to you – and I join in the wishes of prompt recovery that you have addressed to him. The CSPLA report demonstrates the difficulties encountered by some authors in proving the originality of their works in litigation proceedings. The obligation of the authors to provide this proof, work by work, is indeed formidable in the case of mass litigation, involving several dozen or even several hundred works, particularly in the field of photography. Their great difficulty in meeting the demands of judges on proof of originality is reflected in some authors' renunciation of legal action and thus in a weakening of their protection. The situation is exploited opportunistically by the counterfeiters, who systematically challenge the originality of the works in order to prevent the authors from asserting their rights. In order to deal with this situation, the CSPLA report refers to the advisability of a jurisprudential evolution that would reduce the burden of proof based on the authors. However, since such a case-law development is inherently uncertain, the report also envisages the possibility of legislative change. One of the points raised, which has the full attention of the Minister, would be to amend the intellectual property code, so that authors are required to establish the originality of their works only in cases where copyright protection would really appear to be questionable and would be seriously questioned by the defendant. Such a solution seems to respond to a fair balance, avoiding the contestations of originality formed in a systematic and dilatory manner, but without, however, elude, where appropriate, a real debate on the originality of the works. The Minister of Culture will soon come closer to the Ministry of Justice in order to assess the conditions under which this recommendation could be applied, while respecting the sovereign power of judgement of the judges on the merits. She will not fail to keep you informed of these developments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u102	Mrs Anne Brugnera has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u103	In the event that such a legislative development is envisaged, I would like to inform you once again of the authors' concerns about the very notion of originality of the work. I hope that the work will be carried out in consultation with them, so that their rights are properly defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u104	Mr Sebastien Nadot has the floor to put his question, No. 1354, on culture in Occitanie.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u105	It is addressed to Minister Roselyne Bachelot, to whom I wish a speedy recovery. Let her come back to us as soon as possible, and in good shape, because there is something to do! For the past year, France has stopped culture, which is like suffering in Toulouse and Occitanie. The quays of La Garonne, sung by Claude Nougaro, are closed, and the voices of the tenors are no longer resonating in the Théâtre du Capitole. Only the church of Saint-Sernin continues to illuminate in the evening: worship, yes – and that is so much better – culture, no! This is the sad daily life in Toulouse: for aeronautics, planes are on the ground; For the 100,000 students, the studies are in the closet; the culture of rugby must do without the castagna of amateurs; In terms of gastronomy, we have little more than our chocolates. Popular culture, which was the pride of the pink city – small festivals, theatres, bars, restaurants, exhibitions and cinemas – is only a souvenir. Cité de l'Espace, Quai des savoirs, Piste des giantes, Muséum d'histoire naturelle, Aeroscopia, Halle de La Machine: the scientific culture, specificity of Toulouse, knows the same fate. From carnival to the festival of music, from the museum of the Abattoirs to that of the Augustins, the same misery... Why are young and old so sacrificed when the great Pyrenean sister, Barcelona, managed to keep the flame of culture lit? Occitanie is not Île-de-France, Madam Minister. Professionals are also in great pain. The cultural crisis is serious. Here comes the time of the precarious among the precarious: the old butt in ruins of Corinne Masiero as a slogan. The Government's actions have enabled many to hold on financially so far, but this is no longer enough. We must be able to think tomorrow with a clear indication of the scenarios that have been weighed. "Spring is inexorable," wrote Pablo Neruda. The pandemic will have had the merit of showing that in the country of cultural exception, culture is not enshrined as a fundamental right in the Constitution. We'll have to look at this strangeness. As soon as you recover, minister, I hope I can talk to you about this vital issue, preferably on our beautiful lands in the Southwest. In the meantime, minister, "That he is far away from my country, that he is far away. »
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u106	The next speaker is the Minister for Housing.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u107	Mr President, I am replying to you in the place of the Minister for Culture, to whom I will also convey your wishes for recovery and for a speedy return to the Chamber and to her ministry. Indeed, the cultural sector is one of the most affected by the health crisis, in particular because of the closure of cultural establishments for several months. This situation is not unique to France: cinemas, theatres are closed in most European Union states and just over 80% of the population of the European Union does not have access to it today. This closure, of course, restricts access to certain forms of cultivation, but culture is not completely at a standstill. Captations, artist residences, shootings, rehearsals, so important to prepare future shows or productions are maintained. This allows our artists to continue to create and show their creations even if, it is true, it is done under conditions that differ from the classical regime. Beyond this, the Government provides financial support to professionals in the sector to overcome this crisis. More than 9 billion euros have been deployed for the world of culture since March 2020. The schemes are regularly adjusted to adapt to the specificities of different parts of the world of culture and to developments in the health crisis. Of course, the Government shares with cultural professionals, regardless of their status, the same objective: we want cultural venues to be able to reopen quickly, even if it must be very progressive. However, the epidemic situation remains a serious concern, and the Government was forced to take further restrictive measures last week. It is therefore not possible to give today a precise date for the reopening of cultural places on French territory or more specifically, as you ask with talent and with the words of Claude Nougaro, in Toulouse. This does not prevent us from preparing for this resumption. This is the meaning of the work undertaken by Roselyne Bachelot since December, with all the professional organisations, to build with them the model of progressive recovery as soon as the health situation allows.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u108	The floor is open to Mr Philippe Latombe, to put his question, No. 1329, concerning private copying, to the Minister of Culture – to whom we all think this morning.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u109	Mr President, I did wish to ask a question to the Minister for Culture, but I know that, since she cannot be present, the Minister responsible for housing will answer in her place. I will ask three specific questions that require specific answers. First, can you confirm, in the light of the judgments of the Council of State and the related European Directive, that the private copying fee is compensation for those entitled to the right for individuals to make a copy of the works for personal needs, and that it is not a real remuneration, as the unfortunate use of this term in the intellectual property code suggests, which would imply that the fee is socialised and taxed as a salary? Secondly, are the works obtained by the stream ripping method indeed counterfeits, regarded as unlawfully held, as considered by the High Authority for the Dissemination of Works and the Protection of Rights on the Internet – HADOPI? Thirdly, can you confirm that the Government has acceded to the request of the companies of rights holders to submit to the private copying fee reconditioned media, including smartphones? Such a decision, which would see the margin of the repackaging companies reduced to nothing, would be detrimental to the environment, since the sector, many of which also play an integration role, like the workshops in Emmaus or specialized recycling in the territories, would therefore no longer be profitable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u110	The next speaker is the Minister for Housing.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u111	Mr President, I am replying instead of Mrs Roselyne Bachelot, to whom I will convey your wishes for a speedy recovery. I have heard your wish to have a precise answer to your three specific questions, and I will try to do so. Your first question concerns the nature of the remuneration for private copying. This mechanism is provided for in articles L. 311-1 et seq. of the Intellectual Property Code. It is neither a salary within the meaning of social law nor a tax within the meaning of tax law: it is a private levy which is of the same nature as the copyright and related rights of which it constitutes a particular mode of exploitation. In accordance with European law, this remuneration constitutes fair compensation to compensate those entitled for the damage caused by the legal exception of private copying which allows owners of recording media to lawfully reproduce works and services protected for private purposes without seeking the authorisation of the rightholders concerned. Your second question is about stream ripping. This practice is legal and the resulting copy is subject to the exception for private copying, as provided by law if several conditions are met: it must be made from a lawful source at the request of the user without being stored by the converter, and no circumvention of technical protective measures must be carried out. It is in the light of these conditions that the Commission for the Remuneration of Private Copying has taken into account some of the copies of the stream ripping in order to draw up the scales it has adopted. This consideration of the sources resulting from the stream ripping by the Commission was validated by the Council of State in a judgment delivered on 27 November 2019. Finally, your last question is about the reconditioned media. For the time being, the Government has ruled out the exemption from these media and consideration of alternative avenues is under consideration, in particular the establishment by the commission for the remuneration of private copying of a specific scale applicable to repackaged media with a discount. The Commission began its examination of this issue with a hearing phase, in particular that of the trade union representing the repackaging companies, which was received on 2 March. This adapted scale will, I believe, enable us to respond to the fears expressed by the players in the reconditioning process while preserving a primary source of income for cultural actors who suffer particularly during this period of health crisis.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u112	Mr Philippe Latomb has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u113	For hearing the repackaging companies, I can tell you quite frankly that they were very surprised at the way they were interviewed. They were politely listened to, but as soon as their hearing was over, the decision was taken by the committee to propose that the repackaged objects be subject to this tax – to amounts that do not allow these companies, which are mostly social and solidarity economy companies and which play a role of integration, to create a margin. On the one hand, we cannot tell the French that they have to recycle smartphones whose drawers are full and, on the other hand, harm the recycling industry, which is also a field of integration which brings into competence people who were far from employment and allows them to find jobs in the electronics trades, which are trades of the future. I repeat that originally the private copying fee was made for the entire life of the device. This means that an initial private copying fee, which must cover the entire life cycle of the device, would be added to a second private copying fee, which would eventually be subject to a reduction. Two private copying fees for the same device: it doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u114	Mrs Nicole Trisse has the floor to put her question, No 1336, on the cross-border apprenticeship contract.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u115	Mr Secretary of State for Pensions and Occupational Health, I would like to draw your attention to the difficulties faced by young people wishing to do cross-border learning. In the Far East and especially in Moselle, cross-border learning consists of following the theoretical part of learning within a training centre for apprentices – CFA – of this large region, and the practical part in a German company, in Baden-Württemberg, Saarland or Rhineland-Palatinate. The law of 5 September 2018 on the freedom to choose one's professional future has profoundly transformed training through apprenticeship. Thus, it is no longer the regional councils that direct, finance or develop the training offer, but a public institution, France Compétences, that manages and finances the learning since January 1, 2019. Since the entry into force of this reform and the end of the tripartite agreements between the apprentice, the company and the Grand Est region, it is regrettable that the partners in cross-border learning still lack as much information on how to finance this type of apprenticeship contract. Thus, while it is always possible to sign a cross-border contract with a German company, the costs of training must at present be borne by the company or by the apprentice himself, for lack of clear and precise arrangements. The health measures due to the covid-19 have, of course, not fixed anything. This situation is very damaging for the 100 young people who benefit each year from this scheme. This is, of course, a particular feature of the region, but it was somewhat forgotten by this law of 5 September 2018. It seems to me that there is a real urgency to remedy this failure. Therefore, can you clarify to me the funding arrangements that have been provided for these cross-border learning contracts and, if applicable, the date of their implementation?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u116	The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Pensions and Occupational Health.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u117	Madam Member, I am aware of your commitment to the issue of learning transformation and of your willingness that the reflection that we began on this point two years ago will come to an end, in particular with a view to improving the situation of young people undergoing cross-border learning. Cross-border learning is indeed an interesting model in that it helps to promote the vocational integration of young people, especially in the Greater East region that you know well. I was also, a few weeks ago, at the Chamber of Commerce and Industry in Strasbourg, where we discussed the situation you are dealing with in your question. As a reminder, the funding of the apprenticeship training centre in France was provided by the Regional Council for the vast majority of its competences in the field of cross-border learning and cooperation until 31 December 2019. However, the Labour Code does not currently contain any provisions on cross-border learning; the scheme exists only in conventional form within the framework of cross-border cooperation between European regions. The cross-border contract concluded by a foreign company cannot therefore be described as an apprenticeship contract under French law. In order for an apprentice to be considered as such, he must hold a contract of apprenticeship under French law, regardless of his nationality. The main issue today is the financing of CFAs for cross-border apprentices. Since the law of 5 September 2018, which has transformed learning and modified its funding, the regional grant system has disappeared in favour of funding for apprentices paid by skills operators – OPCO – depending on the level of support determined by the professional branches. However, there is no legal basis for the OPCO to finance cross-border apprenticeship contracts, which cannot qualify as a French law apprenticeship contract which I mentioned earlier. I now turn to the few elements that make it possible to move the subject forward. As you know, a solution was found for contracts signed in 2020. As an exception and as an exceptional measure, Elizabeth Borne authorized the OPCOs to take over these contracts. In addition, the General Inspectorate of Social Affairs – IGAS – has launched a mission whose conclusions will be delivered in a few days. They will help to define a new governance and funding framework that must be sustainable. Legislative developments are therefore to be foreseen. The Minister of Labour will shortly announce the decision to take over these important cross-border learning contracts in your region. Be sure, honourable Member, of the attention paid by the Government to this matter which you are right to defend. I believe that the Minister for Labour, Employment and Integration will also be sensitive to any proposal you wish to make on this subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u118	Mrs Nicole Trisse has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u119	I thank the Secretary of State and through him the Minister of Labour for this mission, the results of which are expected very soon. There is indeed a need for a new framework for cross-border learning, because we are at the heart of Europe. People from the Far East cross the border every day to go to work or for other reasons, which is why we must continue to make progress on this subject, as foreseen by the Treaty of Aachen of 2019. I remain confident: I know that discussions are under way and I hope to have a lasting answer on this issue very quickly.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u120	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor to put his question, No. 1335, concerning the AFPA training centres.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u121	In view of the growing economic context and needs, the mission of the Agency for Adult Vocational Training – AFPA – is fundamental: to ensure the training of all those who suffer from the economic and social crisis, but also to accompany the ecological transition and technological changes that require new skills efforts. There is a need to develop demanding vocational training in order to guarantee the right to continuing education. From this point of view, and all the more so in the light of the current crisis, the AFPA must be seen as one of the pivots of recovery and helped as such, and not treated as an actor in the large training market: what orders and means do you give it for this? I want to talk to you in particular about the centre of Istres, of which, in October 2018, the General Directorate of the AFPA had announced the closure, among others. After numerous mobilizations, extensive exchanges with local elected officials and economic, training and social actors, in connection with the Government, this decision was annulled. The teams have been working since then to move forward. The centre of Istres has its full place in the dynamics of the government's stimulus plan. This is why it is urgent to give it the means to reconfigure itself and to give it time to build its formations in connection with all the actors of the territory. An essential component of a territorial network, the Istres centre has accommodation capabilities, training platforms, formidable engineering and essential know-how. With regard to a territory with particular stakes, a land marked by a strong industrial presence, which is beginning its transition, with a level of general qualification lower than the average and a higher unemployment rate, what provisions do you intend to implement, in support of the management of the AFPA, so that the centre of Istres benefits from the means necessary for this change – so that it can, for example, renovate its accommodation centre – and more generally to support its new momentum, so essential to this territory which hosts the first port of France?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u122	The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Pensions and Occupational Health.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u123	Mr Dharréville, beyond the AFPA centre in Istres, your question is more broadly about the vocational training of adults and their role in the transformation of the trades of our industry and our economy, as well as the capacity that must be given to everyone to succeed in this transformation in order to progress in their professional life and to maintain themselves in employment. I believe, moreover, that on this subject we agree, even if our views differ quite regularly on the means. I would like to reiterate how important the AFPA and all its collaborators are to the Government: the Agency is indeed ensuring the implementation of major public policies in the field of vocational training. You certainly have in mind the "prepa compétence" which allows a job seeker to refine his or her project of access to training and to benefit from a 30-day training course. Moreover, since the first confinement, the AFPA was mobilised to provide all the training bodies in France with a digital platform ensuring pedagogical continuity. More recently, we have integrated into the "1 young person, 1 solution" plan a new offer of personalized courses for young dropouts aged 16 to 18: as such, it is almost 35,000 young people who will be welcomed in the AFPA centres that you have just defended brilliantly. I stop this list, but I think these examples illustrate the importance of the AFPA and the Government's confidence in this institution, which allows for training and integration. To achieve this transformation, the AFPA has an ambitious plan to strengthen its commercial capacity and expand its service offerings. In 2020, the state accompanied the AFPA transformation plan with an additional €200 million. This is another example of the importance of AFPA's work to the Government. I know that the AFPA village of Istres offers quality support for the conversion of employees, especially those from the industrial environment that you know well and that you defend. In many situations, it allows us to respond to the demand for assembly technicians, welders, maintenance technicians, and to provide concrete answers to the needs of companies in terms of qualified personnel. Be assured, honourable Member, that the situation of the AFPA centres is being closely monitored by the entire Ministry of Labour, Employment and Integration, notably by Minister Elizabeth Borne, and that the AFPA village of Istres is no exception.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u124	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u125	Thank you for your answer, Secretary of State. I will pay particular attention to the situation of the AFPA centre in Istres, but, more broadly, I would ask you to ensure that this institution really has the means to continue its missions and that it is not Bercy who imposes its budgetary views.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u126	Mr Fabrice Brun, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question No. 1351 on higher education in Ardèche.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u127	Madam Minister for Higher Education, Research and Innovation, our young people no longer want to be the sacrifice of covid, the victims of the algorithms of Parcoursup and even less the target of territorial inequalities in the pursuit of their studies. Thus in the Aubenas basin, a basin of the southern Ardèche and the ardèche mountain which has 100,000 inhabitants, seven high schools – from general education, but also agricultural, hotel, technological and private high schools – offer seven different BTS. This post-bac offer is complemented in particular by the trainings of the consortium of institutions – GRETA – of the Southern Ardèche and the Institute of Nursing Training – IFSI. Is the Government ready to support the development of new training courses baccalaureate +2, even if it is to pool the resources between these different establishments, for example between a BTS of environmental services and a BTS of the aesthetics, cosmetics and perfumery professions, to take concrete examples in connection with the sustainable, thermal and tourist development of our territory? I come to my second question: what will be the commitment of the State, both financially and pedagogically, alongside the Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region and the local authorities, in the project of the gastronomy trades campus under way in Largentière, in the heart of my constituency, marrying the magnificent castle of the commune and the hotel school? The year 2021 has been declared the year of gastronomy by the Prime Minister, to accompany this project would be a nice way for the State to show concretely its commitment in this matter. As Suze-la-Rousse has her wine university, I hope that tomorrow Largentière has its campus of gastronomy trades, Finally, in a complementary but equally indispensable register, will you extend the university outside the walls of the great metropolises, as was done twenty years ago with the installation in Mirabel, in Ardèche, of an antenna of the Joseph-Fourrier University on the domain of the Pradel dear to Olivier de Serres, the father of the French agronomy that was ardéchois, as you know, Madam Minister? We need you to create a national diploma in arts and design, a baccalaureate +3 to develop in partnership with the university in the extension of the professional baccalaureates AMA, "crafts and crafts" and the baccalaureate STD2A, "sciences and technologies of design and applied arts", now available on the basin. Are you going to help us highlight our remarkable assets by developing post-bac training in Ardèche, in attractive trades, providing jobs and development for our young people?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u128	The Minister for Higher Education, Research and Innovation has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u129	Of course, Mr Fabrice Brun, I will strongly support the development of the training offer in Ardèche, as in all the territories. As you know, in 2019 the Ardèche was one of the first territories to experiment with connected campuses in the municipality of Privas. To reinvigorate the territories, the State spends €25 million on the deployment of about 100 of these campuses, which are popularised by communities and young people. In the fall of 2021, three connected campuses will open thanks to the collaboration with the departmental council, which is very active in this field, in Privas, Aubenas and Annonay. It is therefore almost one million euros that the state invests for the benefit of the young Ardéchois, where, as you recall, MP, until 2019 there was no offer of higher education other than BTS. Today, thanks to this action, ardéchois students have a catalog of more than twenty licenses, but also BTS, agricultural BTS and master's. I would like to acknowledge the major involvement, which you recalled, of the University Grenoble Alpes in the implementation of these campus devices connected in Ardèche, notably through the University Development Agency Drôme-Ardèche – ADUDA. The trades and qualifications campuses also reflect the government's desire to develop inclusive and structuring projects in the territories, including through funding from the Investment Program for the Future – PIA. The project of a campus of trades and qualifications of gastronomy, which you mention and in which I know you fully involved, concerns an area unfortunately affected by the pandemic, which explains that it could not progress under normal conditions in 2020, but the rectorate is very attentive to the follow-up of this campus, which works with the antenna of the University of Grenoble Alpes located in Ardèche. I will, of course, be very attentive to the follow-up of this project, which must be able to obtain the label to which it is applying. Finally, in accordance with the provisions in force, the development of BTS is the responsibility, as you know, of the region, with the agreement of the academic authority. It is in fact the region which draws up the regional map of initial vocational training outside apprenticeships. I therefore invite you to come closer to the region to define with it the modalities of carrying out your projects of opening BTS or of a national diploma "crafts of art and design". The Rector of the academic region Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes will of course be very attentive. Such a national degree confers the degree of degree, the Rector will also apply to the university, so that the partnership with that university guarantees the training in research and allows the intervention of teachers-researchers in the framework of this national diploma. As you can see, Member of Parliament, my department is fully committed to the deployment of a rich and diverse training offer in Ardèche, in accordance with the Territory's expectations and in agreement with the communities and the socio-economic world, and this effort will continue unabated.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u130	Mr Fabrice Brun has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u131	Thank you, Minister, for your response and for these opportunities for joint work. I stand at the disposal of your services, the rectorate and the academic inspection so that we can work together, with the region, as you said.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u132	Mrs Marie-France Lorho has the floor to raise her question, No. 1360, on freedom of education in France.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u133	The State's propensity to insinuate itself in the spheres to which it must remain detached is worrying: the permanent interference of the legislator in the sacred refuge of the family is an unceasing step taken by the Government, and the abusive supervision of family education is one of the key points of this phenomenon. On the occasion of the Separatism Act, the Government has arrogate a new right: the right to avoid parental education for children who receive the most appropriate education; the right to reconsider what the Council of State describes as a fundamental principle; the right to make the school of national education a monopoly that will no longer have to be held accountable, in the face of the lack of alternative forms of education. The argument that family education should be regulated in order to combat Islamist radicalism is misleading. Indeed, various studies point to the lack of convergence between family education and these fundamentalist cells. The small number of people targeted – less than 30,000 students – is indicative of the government's ambition: national education seeks to lock children in its giron, depriving parents of the most natural right, that of educating their children as they see fit. The multiple attacks on out-of-contract schools are also a clear testimony. In the face of the particularly promising results of these alternative forms of education, is national education afraid to compete with excellence? The Government cannot grant itself exclusive rights without making every effort to facilitate the lives of the French: you cannot deprive children of family education, even when rural schools are missing. You cannot prevent out-of-contract schools from settling in areas where the Republic school no longer keeps its promises and where there is chaos organized by a few disruptive pupils and which the national education struggles to put an end to. I take this opportunity to alert you, moreover, about the special treatment reserved this year for bachelor's students enrolled in private non-contracted institutions: as Anne Coffinier, the president of the association Create her school, the students enrolled in these institutions will not benefit from the consideration of continuous control, unlike their contemporaries of the public and private under contract. This double standard is not acceptable. French law guarantees freedom of inquiry through Article 2 of the Additional Protocol to the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. It preserves it under article 26 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights of 10 December 1948. The European Union, for its part, encourages its respect under Article 14 of its Charter of Fundamental Rights. Last January, I tabled a motion for a resolution calling on the Government to preserve family education by creating a moratorium to prevent any legislative changes to it. I keep my invitation. At a time when the health crisis is undermining the freedoms enjoyed by the French, do you also intend to deprive families of the fundamental right to educate their children in their homes?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u134	The Minister for Sport has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u135	My point should be such as to reassure you that if the Government wishes to subject the possibility of using family education to a prior authorization scheme, it is not a question of blindly prohibiting all educational facilities in the family, contrary to what you suggest, or of undermining positive practices. The aim of the bill, which reinforces respect for the principles of the Republic, which was adopted at first reading by the National Assembly on 16 February, is to define the exceptions to schooling in a school, in order to preserve only cases involving legitimate demands and to combat all trends which call into question the unity of the Republic. Thus, it is not a question of preventing education in the family: the bill is a balanced text, which provides for derogations from the obligation to attend a public or private educational institution, without any justification other than the best interests of the child. These derogations are as follows: the child's state of health or disability, the intensive practice of sports or artistic activities, the homelessness of the family in France or the geographical remoteness of any public school, and the existence of a situation specific to the child motivating the educational project, provided that the persons responsible for it justify the ability of the person or persons responsible for educating the child to do so in the best interests of the child. This bill makes it possible, above all, to move from a system of ex post verification to a system of prior authorization. This will enable us to be certain that children are actually being educated at home, not in clandestine structures, dangerous not only for the Republic, but also and especially for the child. The Government has listened to the Council of State, parliamentarians and associations involved in family education. We are not unaware of the emotion that the text has aroused in some. That is why we have changed it, so that the exceptions envisaged can maintain family education in all cases that do not pose a particular problem. But, in addition to ensuring the child a high-quality pedagogy, we must also protect him from any form of influence that would interfere with some of his rights. It is not a question of abolishing family education, but of exercising discernment: the concept of the best interests of the child and respect for the rights of the child, in particular the right to complete education, will be the main criteria governing the whole system. The provisions of article 21 of the draft law, which reinforces respect for the principles of the Republic, will enable us to act against all forms of clandestine schooling and, more generally, against abuse of education in the family. To specify a freedom is not to weaken it, but to strengthen it by defining it better. In the present case, this definition was missing. I therefore consider that this bill reinforces the rights of the child as well as the principles of the Republic. There is no infringement of the freedom of education, on the contrary: like all freedoms, including the most precious, it requires a framework.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u136	Thank you, Madam Deputy Minister. Let me remind everyone that the duration of each issue is limited to six minutes. Mrs Marie-France Lorho has the floor for a few seconds.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u137	Thank you for your answers, but we don't make the law on emergency regimes. I would remind you that the licensing regime you intend to introduce and the associated exemptions are very heavy for families who wish to educate their child at home.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u138	I call Mr Fabien Di Filippo to speak on his question, No. 1349, concerning the financial difficulties of associations in the face of the health crisis.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u139	My question was to the Minister of National Education, Youth and Sports. I repeat this often: the first indicator of the vitality of a territory is the dynamism of its associative fabric. One third of the French are members of an association, one fifth are volunteers and nearly 2 million are employees. These associations therefore play a key role in the functioning of our model of society and are major economic players. However, many associations are very financially weakened by successive confinements. They face great difficulties because of the health restrictions imposed by the epidemic of covid-19, between lack of demonstrations, impossibility of holding sessions or competitions, and decrease in the number of adherents. They also suffer from the contradictions between the authorization of certain practices by large groups of students in schools and the prohibition of such activities in a more differentiated manner, in small groups, in gymnasiums. Cultural associations that hosted festivals in the spring and summer, artistic associations, those that give music or dance classes, associative cinemas, sports associations, or solidarity associations: all need support. Above all, they need to resume their activities immediately, respecting the strict barrier measures which they now have full control of. The weakening of these structures can have consequences that go far beyond the voluntary world, particularly affecting the social link and local dynamism of rural areas. It will have an economic effect, because associations account for 4% of French GDP – without even valuing the totality of volunteering – but also have a strong impact on the social link, contributing to the limitation of human contacts and exchanges. The National Agency for the Safety of Food, Environment and Labour – ANSES – points out that two thirds of 11-17 year olds present a health risk of concern due to too much sedentaryness, and the National Observatory for Physical Activity and Sedentarity – ONAPS – confirms that this risk has increased since the first confinement. The difficulties of associations also pose a significant risk for the cultural development of young people, at ages where learning is crucial, but also for the accompaniment of the most fragile, which can no longer be ensured as it is in normal times. What measures is the Government taking to ensure that associative practices and activities can resume as normally and as quickly as possible, especially in the territories less affected by the epidemic? What actions does your ministry intend to implement to develop outdoor practices? What specific support are you planning so that the associations can cope with the financial difficulties that are theirs and start the recovery of the licensees and registrants as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u140	The Minister for Sport has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u141	Thank you for giving us the opportunity to tell us how essential these associations are to us and how they represent the true link of living together in our society, reasons why the State has been with them since the beginning of the crisis. Our support takes different forms and is organised with the help of many actors. My answer will cover both Sarah El Haïry's scope of action, which deals with all the associations, and the sports sector, for which I have responsibility. State aid is first of all manifested in the support for the cash and own funds of the associations. Through France Active, financial solutions amount to €45 million for the period 2020-2022, to which will be added the €40 million mobilised by the Bank of the Territories through bond purchases. In a second phase, we decided to support community employment: the Youth and People's Education Cooperation Fund – FONJEP – will mobilise 2000 additional posts, the National Sports Agency will finance 2500 posts, and support for employment will be provided in the framework of the Sesame towards employment for sport and animation in the management professions – SESAME – which will help 3000 additional people, on the understanding that the profiles of these young people, which we will propose to the associations to employ, cover both unqualified and already qualified people. In a third stage, we ensured that employers' associations had access to the common legal provisions on the same footing as any company. I am thinking of simplified and reinforced partial unemployment, social or tax deferrals, or direct tax rebates, which can be decided after an individualised, association-by-association examination. Beyond this, so that the many associations that do not employ employees can benefit from special aid, Sarah El Haïry announced that the Fund for the Development of Associative Life – FDVA – would be strengthened to the tune of €5 million, while €15 million will be specifically allocated to sports associations for the years 2020 and 2021. With regard to the necessary resumption of sports practice, please be aware that €80 million is being mobilised for federal sports projects. These sums will be donated by the sports federations to the associations, to help them to approach the new season with confidence, in particular by establishing territorial partnerships in order to allow their members, who do not have access to the covered equipment, where activities are restricted, to use external equipment. By partnering with sports associations offering outdoor sport, the associations concerned will be able to provide their members with the service they undertook to provide in September. The FDVA training campaign was launched in early 2021. Many associations can still apply. Be aware that we are present alongside all the associations and all the actors, because we know that they are essential to the Republic. That is why we deploy all the energy we need to ensure that they are safeguarded, that they are sustainable, and, above all, that their activities are maintained whenever possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u142	The next speaker is Mr Fabien Di Filippo, whom I would like to invite to remain very brief, since the six-minute deadline has almost expired.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u143	I recall that one in two young people spends more than four and a half hours a day in front of a screen. I would also like to warn you that the additional amount allocated to the FDVA represents only one sixth of the amount we had through the parliamentary reserve: 5 million euros, it corresponds to 3 euros per association. Such a sum is not up to the stakes.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u144	Mr Hubert Julien-Laferrière has the floor to put his question, No. 1359, on the difficulties of amateur sport in the face of the health crisis.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u145	As you know, as a result of the health crisis, amateur sport is breathless, with cash in great difficulty, a sport in the hall at the stop, cancelled competitions, leaders throwing the sponge and clubs that put the key under the door – not to mention that many of them were already in trouble before the crisis. In addition to this, extra-sports events, which are essential to the fragile financial balance of many clubs, and the virtual impossibility of using sponsorship, the potential partners themselves encountering serious difficulties – including local businesses, which are the main sponsors of most small structures. Of course – you are well aware of this – with the cessation of the activities of the associations, it is not only the sport practice that is being played, but also the social link in many territories, whose clubs are a major actor. When one has been a member of a sports association, elected local, as is the case for many of us, mayor of an arrondissement, as I was in Lyon, member of a neighbourhood council or simply actor of his neighbourhood, one knows how much clubs are a vector of social cohesion, solidarity, mutual aid and living together, but also how much they fulfil an educational mission. It is also known how much sport is a public health imperative. We are also thinking of those thousands of followers who play for pleasure and who, more than ever, need this outlet. Don't forget, finally, that many professional athletes have started their discipline in an amateur club, such as Teddy Riner in the 19th arrondissement of Paris, Nabil Fekir in Saint-Priest, Karim Benzema in Bron Terraillon, or Éric Abidal in Lyon-Duchère AS, in my constituency. I am also thinking of the employees and the many volunteers without whom clubs would not exist, who pass on their knowledge and the values of sport, and who are often educational and social relays. Here I want to pay tribute to these volunteers, instructors and coaches who are the wealth of French sport and who make clubs live. Their expectation is extremely strong. The third wave is there, but vaccination is under way and amateur sport needs, I believe, perspectives to get out of the crisis and to consider recovery. Let us trust our sports associations: they are able to organize meetings and events while respecting health standards. Sportsmen, leaders, volunteers: everyone will be responsible. Let's give them the chance to prove it. Madam Deputy Minister, can you give us perspectives and a timetable for recovery, including in-room sports and extra-sport events, to support this sport from below that brings so much to the community?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u146	The Minister for Sport has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u147	For the past year, I have been particularly committed to ensuring that federal and community sport can overcome the challenges it faces. That is why, from the beginning of the crisis in early March 2020, the choice we have preferred was to allow certain athletes to continue their practice permanently, inside or outside, in all sports facilities. These include high-level and professional athletes, people who do prescription sports, trainees in vocational training, and all persons with disabilities who practice sport because this is essential to them. Beyond these situations, we have endeavoured to encourage, in each new phase of the crisis, the maintenance of a minimum activity for associations. At one point, this resulted in the authorization of minors to practise a sport. In addition, since 28 November, everyone, whether a major or a minor, has been allowed to play outdoor sports, in individual or supervised practice. We make these decisions because we trust the educators of sports associations and their leaders. Unfortunately, since 16 January, the arrival of the English variant has made it impossible to authorize an indoor practice, both in school and in association. However, as you know, a few days ago we announced the resumption of physical and sports education – the EPS – in school because sports activity is essential to the well-being of our children. Mr Di Filippo also said just now that the danger of sedentary behaviour is waiting for both children and adults. Because of the change in our daily routines, we risk excluding sport from our everyday lives. We do not want such a situation to happen. We need to keep sport alive no matter what. Communities and federations have developed solutions that allow associations that offer indoor practice and those that offer outdoor practice to collaborate. Sports facilities and recreation courses are available to associations to ensure that adults and children spend time outside. We must adapt to this crisis situation. It is essential to continue to provide financial support to the voluntary sector. We do so on a daily basis with significant aid: 100 million euros will be released, in the form of a device called pass'sport, to encourage the resumption of licences and memberships in the coming year. Together, we will be able to reach this goal thanks to a world of sport that is motivated and aware of its responsibility for the health of the French.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u148	Mr Hubert Julien-Laferrière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u149	Thank you for your answer. As you said, beyond state aid, these associations need to continue to feel useful to the community.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u150	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor to put his question, No. 1353, concerning the hospital in Bastia.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u151	I would like to refer to the situation of the Bastia hospital and its necessary re-foundation. The epidemic of covid-19 has highlighted the vulnerability of hospital structures in some territories, first and foremost Corsica. Thanks to the exceptional dedication of hospital staff and the health care system – which I personally benefited from and to which I want to pay tribute – the island was able to cope with the epidemic, not without tensions or concerns. This epidemic crisis has reinforced our fears about Bastia Hospital. The age of its infrastructure has come to light and the question of a large-scale restructuring or, more certainly, reconstruction has arisen more than ever before. The challenge is to provide the entire Haute-Corse with a modern hospital infrastructure accessible to all. Access to health care, a fundamental right that must be guaranteed, is the subject of obvious shortcomings in that territory, which nevertheless accounts for 60 per cent of the island's population. In addition, the reconstruction or modernisation of this hospital would be part of a comprehensive development strategy led by the municipality of Bastia in terms of urban planning, new mobility and energy. This city has a major ambition for the future, as the recasting of hospital supply is a central element of its project. The advent of this new building requires extensive technical and financial feasibility studies. The Government's support appears necessary to support the city in the establishment of this structure. I would therefore like to know whether the Government is willing to support this essential project for Bastia and Corsica and therefore ask it to guarantee its participation in the success of this ambition.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u152	The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Children and Families.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u153	Your question is first of all for me, as well as for the entire ministry, to which I associate the regional health agency, the opportunity to welcome once again the commitment of healthcare workers, particularly in Corsica, to the epidemic. You have spoken of "exceptional dedication", words that seem quite appropriate to me, among other things with regard to the Bastia hospital centre. During the crisis, the institution was on the front line, both in the reception of covid patients and in the deployment of screening and vaccination policies. Let me remind you that a programme to modernize the main site was launched some time ago. The hospital had carried out a first tranche of restructuring work and expressed its intention to continue this approach throughout the site. On the occasion of his arrival on the island in February 2018, the President of the Republic himself confirmed that the State would provide support for the completion of a second restructuring tranche. "The State will fully do what is expected of it," he said. The institution subsequently carried out an architectural diagnosis, a fundamental work aimed at formalizing a medical-care project, notably through the expertise of human resources organisations. On this occasion, as you know, important structural limits to the development of the site have been identified. I am thinking, for example, of the architectural configuration of the wings that did not achieve the standard of twenty-eight to thirty beds per hospital unit, of the too many two-bed and poorly equipped rooms, of the insufficient number of medical, paramedical and logistical spaces in the services or of the undersized areas devoted to emergency and UAS activities. Aware of the issues at stake, the institution wished to formalize, as part of a concerted medical-care project, the architectural priorities to be expected. At the time of the outbreak of the covid-19 crisis, all this was in the final stages of a transition to an interdepartmental committee on the performance and modernization of the supply of hospital care in the summer of 2020. Depending on the needs identified in the context of crisis management, the institution has been forced to implement several internal architectural reorganisations which have led, on the one hand, to reinforce the developments resulting from previous work and, on the other hand, to highlight major constraints, stronger than those initially identified. The crisis has highlighted in particular the need to consolidate and develop the provision of critical care, or the lack of equipment in lifts, which makes it impossible to distinguish flows within the hospital centre. These factors led the institution to update its investment programme and to request a complementary technical study, with the aim of deepening the possibilities offered by the existing site from an architectural point of view, as well as of receiving support to verify the feasibility and cost of in situ restructuring. Both the SRA and the Government pay particular attention to the follow-up to this issue. As you certainly know, working meetings have also taken place recently. We all hope that they will make it possible to move forward on the developments which I have just mentioned in part and which we consider essential. These, honourable Member, are the elements of an answer that I could give you at this stage.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u154	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u155	Mr Secretary of State, you mentioned the architectural diagnosis and the medical-care project, that is to say, all the deficiencies that have accumulated and that Bastia and 60% of the population of Corsica suffer. The situation is clear. In any case, Bastia and Haute-Corse need a new hospital structure re-founded in situ or on a new site. The status quo is simply untenable. I also stress that Corsica is the only region that does not have a university hospital. The Government must consider remedying that situation, as Corsica needed it. I would add that Bastia must be fully involved in this project.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u156	Mr Jean-Yves Bony has the floor to put his question, No. 1345, concerning the Parkinson's unit in Ydes.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u157	Here I want to echo the disarray, incomprehension and ill-being of the sick, families, doctors and caregivers of the Parkinson's unit of Ydes, better known as UPY, in the Cantal. In fact, last January, the ARS announced, to the general astonishment, the end of the financing of this unit, therefore its closure, even though since 2018 it has failed to meet its commitments and has decreased its financing every year, thus causing a chronic deficit in the functioning of the UPY. This pilot and innovative twelve-bed unit, created in 2012, was awarded in 2016 by the RSA, which then granted it a licence to practise as a long-term care unit – USLD – a status obtained by default given the specifics of the care it offers. It offers patients from all over France temporary or permanent stays, therapeutic rehabilitation, multidisciplinary rehabilitation and respite. In short, it offers a hyper-specialised and individual care, in an exceptional setting where the humanity and expertise of caregivers meet the unfailing courage of severely affected patients both at the motor level and neuropsychiatrically and their families exhausted in search of appropriate assistance. The medical and nursing staff of this unit is unanimous: repositioning Parkinson's activity on beds of follow-up care and rehabilitation – SSR – classics of the nearest hospital centre, Mauriac, amounts, no more or less, to losing all the quality, specificity, and attractiveness of UPY, leaving many patients and families without any remedy. The ARS has just suspended this closure; I would like here to welcome this decision. Nevertheless, the future of the Ydes Parkinson Unit remains very compromised. Mr Secretary of State, this centre is a national exception. Its closure would, in the eyes of all, be totally incomprehensible and unjust. So my question is simple: how do you intend to keep the UPY in Ydes and make it sustainable, and with what means?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u158	The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Children and Families.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u159	First of all, I would like to join you in highlighting the unique character of the Parkinson Unit of Ydes, an experimental device that has existed since 2011 and is dedicated, as you said, to the care of patients with Parkinson's disease, within the long-term care unit of the Mauriac Hospital. It was originally a twelve-bed extension of this USLD. This Parkinson unit received significant funding from the regional health agency, with an average annual allocation of €500,000. In 2016, the SRA renewed the USLD's authorization, confirming the need for an offer of care for dependents over 65 years of age who require ongoing medical supervision. At this point I would like to point out, contrary to perhaps what you have mentioned, that at the time this extension was absolutely not for the SRA the validation of any structural or health deficit. First of all, I want to point out that the activity of this extension of the USLD beds does not fully correspond to the original project, which was aimed at caring for patients at the very beginning of illness or for temporary stays of respite. As of March 8, of the 12 places, five were in permanent care, of which three were highly dependent because they were very old and were at an advanced stage of the disease and were partly EHPAD. Furthermore, on that date, no patients were accommodated in temporary accommodation on the four beds initially dedicated to these stays allowing therapeutic neurology adjustments or respite to relieve families. At the time of the creation of this extension, however, it was specified in the original project that the average length of stay in Ydes should not exceed three weeks because, in most cases, patients had to return to their homes. This unit was to ensure the expected management of this pathology, consisting of delaying dependence as much as possible. Finally, it should be noted that the operation of the experimental structure raises questions because of a difficulty to complete, at certain times, the planning of caregivers. In the face of this observation, and in order to allow for a reflection with the actors on the positioning of this offer in relation to the needs of the inhabitants of the Cantal, the Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes ARS, after having suspended the closure, as you have said, wants an evaluation of this experiment – which, in reality, has never been done – to be carried out, with the aim of taking stock of precisely how it operates and how it is financed. At this stage, of course, neither the abandonment of any activity on the site nor the cessation of the management of patients with Parkinson's disease have been – in any case – envisaged. The desire of the SRA and the Government is rather to ensure the optimal care of these patients – a goal that you obviously share, Mr. MP – but once this study has been carried out, so that we can assess the current situation in relation to the initial objectives of this unit.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u160	Mr Jean-Yves Bony has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u161	Thank you, Secretary of State, for your answer, although you have not clearly expressed the department's willingness to retain the Ydes Parkinson Unit. I would like to remind you that this unit radiates far beyond the department, and I want to point out that my colleague Mollac, from the Morbihan, has been questioned by families in his constituency, who stress the importance of this unit for families and patients. Of course, there is, as you say, a fall in activity in March, but that is fatal since funding has fallen. I think we need to reassure patients and families first and foremost. It would be desirable for this exchange to be extended outside the House.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u162	Mr Arnaud Viala has the floor to put his question, No. 1348, on the remuneration of staff fighting against covid-19.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u163	For more than a year now, our country has been living at the pace of this pandemic, which strikes the French in their health, in their way of life, and in their habits, and which puts a severe strain on our health and care system, but above all on our caregivers and caregivers in public hospitals or in the private sector, including those who practice liberalism in the city or in the countryside, and on the whole voluntary sector and service to the person. However, everywhere in our country women and men, regardless of their status and their usual missions, have given the best of themselves, often at the risk of their own security, sometimes of their lives, to help others; Without this momentum, we would not be there and there would have been infinitely more distress, loneliness and loss of life. In order to overcome the lack of recognition of the caregivers and all the staff I mentioned, the Ministry of Health organised a consultation with the actors of the French healthcare system in 2020 and released, as part of the Ségur de la santé, important sums to improve the care of patients, but also for the day-to-day carers, with a view to improving in the form of bonuses the professions carried out in health institutions and EHPADs – accommodation facilities for dependent elderly people – by recognizing the commitment of these staff to the service of the French health. However, a significant part of medical and paramedical professionals, as well as services to people, particularly in rural areas as in my department of Aveyron, did not receive this bonus. These "forgotten of Segur", as they call themselves, feel a lack of recognition of their work. I would point out that the premium is individually of 180 euros in the public and 163 euros in the private sector, but that there are many territorial and functional disparities: the professionals who would not have received it are those in the sectors of personal aid, home help and voluntary EHPADs, but there are also infinite disparities between structures and between employers, so that no one understands anything! And the repeated announcements by the Government on new categories that could lead to this bonus do not satisfy them because there is a lack of readability. Can you, Secretary of State, tell me this morning where we are?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u164	The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Children and Families.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u165	I will try to clarify things by recalling the various devices that, it is true, have sometimes been implemented successively. I will begin by pointing out that you are right to say that health professionals have shown a vital and life - saving commitment beyond even the hospital structures, and I obviously include those of the medico-social. That is why the Government has insisted that a bonus be granted to them, a bonus which would contribute to the necessary recognition of their sector and their action, being well aware that this recognition cannot only be of a financial nature – even if this aspect is obviously important. Where the premium has not been taken over by the relevant local authorities, e.g. the Home Aid Departments, the State replied present with the necessary funding of EUR 80 million. While only nineteen departments were funding a bonus at the beginning of the summer, it was now the whole of them that eventually recognized the essential commitment of these professionals. The State obviously supports all professionals in the medical and social sector. As you pointed out, it is the sense of the Ségur de la santé that the public health and medical and social professions should be made more attractive, in particular by means of better remuneration, and this has translated into an increase of 183 euros net per month for employees of public and private non-profit EHPADs, but also for those of commercial EHPADs by an increase of 160 euros net per month. A first extension of the Ségur allowed some professionals to benefit from these upgrades to medical-social structures or services that are part of the hospital public service: I am thinking in particular of the home nursing services – the SSIADs – concerned with the upgrading of 183 euros net monthly from June. The extension continues for the other medical and social establishments and services under the aegis, as you know, of Mr Michel Lafourcade, appointed by the Prime Minister in order to better coordinate the various professions of autonomy. As for home help, your assembly voted for a government amendment providing for funding of EUR 200 million by the state to complete the negotiations on amendment 43 of the branch convention with a view to recasting the index grids of these professionals. I would like to point out that they too fall within the competence of the departments. The process of recognition and upgrading of all these professions is therefore well under way, as shown by the decisions that I have recalled and those that will be taken in the coming weeks and months, and as much as necessary to meet the commitment of the various health professionals you have mentioned.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u166	Mr Arnaud Viala has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u167	I thank you for your answer, Mr Secretary of State, but I would like to zoom in on the department of Aveyron that I know very well to quote you structures such as the ADMR – Aide à domicile en milieu rural – which also exists in other departments, but also the UDSMA-French Mutuality Aveyron, before which the staff was demonstrating a few days ago to denounce the working conditions in its local nursing centres. All senior residences can also be mentioned. You are telling me that, following our vote, some reflections are under way with a view to improving staff salaries, but this type of long-term work does not answer the question of the specific premium linked to the health context of the covid crisis, during which they have made and are still making very great efforts to accompany people in fragile situations, mainly in rural areas, which are often isolated, efforts without which these people would not have been able to go through the period we know.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u168	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor to put her question, No. 1355, on the health safety of medical and social workers.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u169	My question is addressed to the Minister for Solidarity and Health and concerns the situation of medical and social personnel in non-public establishments, whether they are associations or profit-making, in the light of the so-called measures of the Ségur de la Santé. As a result of the agreements signed in July 2020, a salary adjustment was granted to all staff working in hospitals or in EHPAD, i.e. 183 euros in the public and 160 euros in the private sector. As a first step, health-care workers, educators and nurses working in medical-social facilities such as specialized nursing homes, home nursing services, medical-educational institutes and nursing homes did not benefit from the upgrading of salaries in the hospital sector. I drew the Minister's attention to this issue last December, in questions to the Government. Since last month, the extension of this upgrading to social and medico-social personnel has been granted, but on condition that they are attached to a public health institution or to an EHPAD of the hospital public service. Today, the fate of those working in the private sector – associations or profit-making – three quarters of the social and medico-social staff, is still outstanding. Depending on the area selected, it is between 40,000 and nearly 200,000 people who are affected. Do I have to recall that they have participated and continue to do so in the care of fragile people and that they do not count their hours? I would like to know what measures are envisaged and discussed, in conjunction with employers, in order to ensure the fair treatment of all medical and social care personnel, but also the timing of their implementation, as well as the number of persons possibly affected by these future measures of upgrading in the Sarthe's care structures and on what average level of remuneration.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u170	The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Children and Families.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u171	Your question, Madam Member, is in keeping with that of MP Viala. I will therefore provide some additional elements of response to the risk of being somewhat redundant compared to the one I have just given. You just recalled the history of the agreements signed in July 2020, which allowed a salary increase of 183 euros in the public and 160 euros in the private sector for staff working in the hospital or in EHPAD, which obviously contributed to the indispensable recognition of the public authorities for the dedication of these front-line professionals in the fight against covid-19. Once again, I stress that there is no question of remaining there, and the Government has repeatedly expressed its wish to continue to support professionals in the medical and social sector and to take action accordingly. It is the sense of the Ségur de la santé that to make the public health and medical-social professions more attractive, hence a first extension of the Ségur which allowed to benefit from the revalorisations that I recalled some professionals of medical-social structures and services that were part of the hospital civil service, in particular those of the SSIADs which will be affected from June by this revalorisation of 180 euros net monthly. The work continues for the staff of the other medical and social institutions and services, especially those working in the private, voluntary or lucrative sector, whom I repeat you mentioned, under the auspices of Michel Lafourcade, who was assigned as coordinator of the professions of autonomy by the Prime Minister. You are right to point out that the issues are important and go beyond the issue of compensation. This is how you spoke of fairness, and that is what it is. As far as home help is concerned, I would point out that your House voted for this amendment mobilising EUR 200 million to complete the negotiation of amendment 43 and to recast the indexing grids of these professionals who fall within the competence of the departments because, in the health context of the crisis affecting the finances of the communities, the state had to be on board and that was the case. I would add that Mr Lafourcade is also reflecting on the question of training. The process of recognition and upgrading of these professions is therefore well under way and will continue as much as necessary, taking into account, beyond the issue of fairness of treatment, that of the fair recognition of the commitment of these professionals. Please be aware, Madam Member, that the Government, starting with Minister Brigitte Bourguignon, is fully committed to this process.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u172	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u173	Your points of answer, of which I thank you, correspond to what Minister Olivier Véran had told me during the question-and-answer session to the Government on Mr Lafourcade's future work and report. Having said that, I look forward to more details on the timetable for the various measures envisaged and on the sectors concerned. Similarly, I did not have an answer on the situation in the Sarthe and I would like the department to provide me with specific information. I therefore expect a more complete answer.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u174	Mr François Ruffin has the floor to put his question, No. 1333, on the Grand Age Act.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u175	"Last morning I arrived at the lady's house, she had fallen and fractured her skull. I'm calling the offices, but there's no one here to answer me, no one on demand. Do you think that's normal? I called the firemen, the family, I got through, but do you think that's normal? Saturday afternoon, it was in Flixecourt, in my corner, that an auxiliary of life complained about his loneliness, and the next day, in Villeurbanne, it was still a shower of testimonies about schedules, salaries, holidays. "The executives themselves are running out," says Aline. When I was in charge of the sector, the biggest difficulty was finding people to do the job. So much so that I sometimes went to take care of elderly people on weekends without having any skills, without having the right to do so, but I couldn't leave people in their beds, not washed, without having eaten. » It's asphyxiation in the home helper. Four federations in the sector have alerted the Government and the French: they tell us that, soon, we will no longer be able to choose to stay at home and that it is already impossible for them, for lack of staff, to honour all requests for support from the elderly. I've been ringing the alarm for three years and I've been demanding a real status and income for life assistants. For the past three years, on the benches of the Government, I have been referred to the law on the old age. This autumn, again, when the budget was examined, Olivier Véran said that the future Grand Age and Autonomy Act would make it possible to improve these professions even more. But we haven't seen anything coming for three years... I'm going to retrace the history of this case, because the situation would become almost comical. In May 2018, after a white tide, the President of the Republic Emmanuel Macron promises in person a Great Age Plan and a law passed before the end of 2019. A year and a half later, at the end of 2019, no law, but Agnès Buzyn gives himself "by 2020 to succeed". Early 2020, new postponement: the bill will be introduced in the summer; Then in June, it is promised again, sworn, the law will be ready by the end of the year... At the end of 2020, Emmanuel Macron committed himself to a law from the beginning of 2021. Here we are in the spring of 2021 and I have looked at the parliamentary calendar: no law on the horizon. Five postponements is a record! As the school principals told you, stop at the blahbla, we want a law! When is it planned? Do you have a new promise to make?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u176	The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Children and Families, to answer a question shared by many Members.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u177	Mr Ruffin, since the first statements you mention, which date back to 2018, you will not have escaped that a health crisis has occurred, making the progress of a number of projects difficult, and not only that concerning the issue of old age and autonomy. Furthermore, you may agree that, beyond the law, several measures have been adopted in favour of home help; I'll take a little time to get back to it. Your question allows me to recall an important figure: more than 80% of our citizens want to age better by being able to stay at home. This requires extensive work to better prevent the loss of autonomy, but also and above all to encourage young people's vocations in favour of these professions to support autonomy and the old age – the jobs of the bond, as you call them. It is imperative to guarantee their attractiveness and this is one of the major axes of the work undertaken by Brigitte Bourguignon within the Government. The delegate minister responsible for autonomy had the opportunity to make last month, in Bordeaux, a point of step concerning the action plan on the professions of the great age. It also recalled the characteristics of this last week, during its hearing by the Assembly's Committee on Social Affairs. On that occasion, she was able to exchange views with parliamentarians on several aspects. In the area of salary revalorisation, amendment 44 has already been approved to revalue the index point for home helpers. This additional 33 euros gross is a first step which, of course, cannot be enough, which is why discussions are continuing on amendment 43, which concerns the recasting of index grids. In the context of the health crisis, the financial situation of local and regional authorities could have jeopardized this increase. Considering it to be fundamental, the Government has therefore proposed to the Parliament to vote for a €200 million mobilisation per year from the autonomous branch to complete the financing – unless I am mistaken, it seems to me, honourable Member, that you have voted for this measure. Work continues and this issue remains one of the Minister's priorities. As you know, the attractiveness of these trades is not limited to salary revalorisation, even if it is essential. At the same time, we adapt the training of these professionals to anticipate the challenges of tomorrow, allow an increase in qualifications and prevent occupational risks. Finally, we are developing answers to improve the quality of life at work and to break with the difficulties these professionals face on a daily basis, on the understanding that these professions are having to multiply. Thus, thanks to the tools available to us, the Government's work continues independently of the Great Age Act. As has already been mentioned, a bill on these issues will be presented to you as soon as the health context permits.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u178	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u179	My question was simple: when will a bill be available? You answer for four minutes, but you don't mention any dates. "When the health crisis allows it": obviously, the health crisis makes it possible to pass bills of all kinds but not that, while this is an urgent point since the auxiliaries of life have been on the front line. I don't want to forget another aspect: "The period is difficult for young people, during the health crisis, they are told: "we do all this for the old ones" and, on the way out, the great text that we would vote for would still... for the old ones? This is what a prominent minister recently said in the newspaper Le Parisien. We must avoid any war of generations. The draft law on old age may also be a project for young people. France Strategy points out that the occupations linked to the support of the elderly are jobs of the future and that this sector will create a lot of jobs. But under what conditions? Will young people be entitled to wages of poverty or will they have access to a decent status and income? The Grand Age Act must be placed on the Assembly's agenda, since it is also intended for young people.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u180	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor to put his question, No. 1334, concerning the university hospital centre in Rouen.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u181	The CHU de Rouen has built a new building, the Robec, which brings together all the operating units of the Charles-Nicolle Hospital. According to the Interunion, the proper functioning of the services transferred to this building in October 2020 would be compromised, while the equipment had an activity rate of 60%, excluding the effects of covid-19. The malfunctions are due to the inadaptation of buildings built without the staff being able to express their needs – particularly in terms of storage capacity –, chronic staff shortages and the lack of training of certain hospital staff, in particular nurses, whose missions were expanded after their transfer. On the basis of a pooling of resources, the CHU management took advantage of the operation to redeploy forty posts – including nursing stations – to other hospital services such as the service of handing over or sterilization of equipment and utensils. The work that was carried out by these nursing assistants is now carried out, on a constant basis, by IBODE – operating unit nurses – or IADE – anaesthetist nurses. The trade union organisations report a marked deterioration in working conditions, which is why all the personnel in the Robec operating units used their right to withdraw on 4 November. They denounce non-existent or random organizational models, a large workload, poor organisation in the management of equipment with consequences for surgical procedures, exploding overtime, or the lack of prior training for agents involved in a surgical specialty that they do not fully master. In the presence of the labour inspectorate – who ordered management to take action – a motion was adopted on February 2 by the CHSCT – Committee on Health, Safety and Working Conditions. She called for the recruitment of medical assistants, storeroom logistics staff and IBODE, serious training for staff using the new equipment and the employment of operatives only for operations for which they were trained. Staff representatives pointed out that management was responsible for the working conditions and psychosocial risks caused by the situation. In the absence of a credible response, the inter-union organized a new day of strike on March 18. Management continues to take refuge in denial and refuses any social dialogue. So my question is simple: will the Minister of Health take any useful steps – in connection with the regional health agency, the management and elected staff at the hospital's CHSCT – to resolve as soon as possible these dysfunctions found in the Robec unit at the CHU in Rouen?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u182	The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Children and Families.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u183	Even if you know the various elements of this file, I will begin by drawing up the history of the decisions that have been made. The consolidation of the surgical activities of the CHU de Rouen within this unique building, the Robec, which you consider somewhat hasty, is an old project, initiated more than ten years ago. It has been prepared with all the health care teams and has been the subject of extensive consultation with the authorities and staff representatives. The opening of this building was very much expected: the previous organization, which was split into several blocks of specialties, had shown its limits, especially for the work and operation of the teams on a daily basis. One of the objectives of the Robec project was precisely to meet this imperative of improving working conditions. It represents an investment of 144 million euros, with financial support from the State of 29 million euros. In total, more than 25,000 interventions are carried out per year. The move to the new building was planned for August 2020, but the mobilization of all the teams of the CHU of Rouen in the management of the crisis of the covid -19 did not make it possible to clear the time needed to meet this initial deadline. I would also like to acknowledge the constant commitment of the entire hospital community of the CHU, which has again been heavily involved, and which is still involved. To ensure the need to catch up with surgical operations carried over during the first confinement and to limit the loss of opportunity for patients, the move to the new building was organised at the end of October 2020, after a broad consultation. This new organization, which brings together all the team operating units within the Robec building, has been implemented by maintaining the same number of nurses and caregivers. The dimensioning by intervention room also remains unchanged and management has ensured that all professionals are accompanied to ensure that everyone takes ownership of their new working environment – I am sure they will continue to do so. It is certain that the context of the health crisis in which the accommodation took place accentuated the organisational challenges faced by the health care teams: only a few days after the building was put into service, the needs of the crisis led to the transformation of a floor into a temporary resuscitation service. Despite the mobilisation of everyone in this particular context, a right of withdrawal was deposited on 4 November 2020 by healthcare professionals, on the basis of a request to secure their working conditions and patient care. To address these legitimate concerns of staff and facilitate this transition period, CHU management immediately developed an action plan in collaboration with the teams involved. Its main axes and corrective measures were presented to the CHSCT on 6 November 2020. The plan is accompanied by additional resources, including a reinforcement of health-care workers. In this challenging period, of course, we all share the objective of ensuring that professionals and patients have the best conditions for care. This new technical platform for the CHU de Rouen is an obvious improvement for the territory. Its openness attests to the constant concern to develop know-how in the face of the epidemic of covid-19, while ensuring that all priority activities in the territory are maintained.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u184	Mrs Sylvie Tolmont has the floor to put her question, No. 1357, on the residence permit for unaccompanied minors.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u185	I would like to refer to the situation of many unaccompanied minors who, enrollment in training or apprenticeship, encounter difficulties in obtaining a residence permit once their majority has been reached. The national press recently echoed the struggle of Mr. Stéphane Ravacley, baker in Besançon, who had started a hunger strike to oppose the threat of expulsion of his 18-year-old apprentice, Mr. Laye Fodé Traoré. Contrary to what the Minister of Labour could have said, this is unfortunately not a particular case. Rather, I feel that this type of situation is multiplying dangerously. In my territory, the Sarthe, I would like to point out a number of similar examples of refusal to issue a residence permit, in particular because of the allegedly apocryphal nature of the identity elements presented by the applicant. Many of the young people concerned, however, show a great deal of seriousness and involvement with their apprenticeship or internship teachers, so much so that they often give them a promise of employment. In addition to their professional investment, some also demonstrate altruistic commitment and are involved in associative activities, including sports. Unfortunately, despite the support of their teachers and associations engaged with them, they were denied many, sometimes with little argument. This situation, which is unfair in view of the commitment of these young people, is also incomprehensible in view of the public resources injected to ensure their training or follow-up; Finally, it is counterproductive because it concerns young people who have been trained in voltage courses in which employers want to recruit, for example, catering, notwithstanding the current crisis situation, or building. That is why I would like you to share with me your intentions to allow these young people to integrate professionally and socially.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u186	The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Children and Families.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u187	I will tell you about our intentions and the measures that we have already begun to implement. Some young people, who were recognized as minors at the time of their assessment, were covered by social assistance for children and were denied the right to stay at the time of their majority because they were unable to justify a civil status or their nationality. This often leads to strong questions and misunderstandings by creating dramatic personal situations. You cited Stéphane Ravacley's fight in Besançon, with which I had exchanged on the phone at the time of the events, but I had the opportunity to be confronted with other similar situations elsewhere on the territory. In examining applications, prefectures often rely on border police reports and consular authorities to issue their refusals. Before any refusal, a phase of exchange is introduced between the prefecture services, the departmental councils and the citizens, which gives the young adults the opportunity to complete their file with new documents that would allow to lift the suspicion that might have settled. Considering that these situations cannot be considered satisfactory, the Government has wished to take a series of measures and to provide responses that will help to secure these procedures as early as possible, since it is often a lack of anticipation that creates the ruptures. The aim is to give these young people perspectives as soon as possible, so that a sword of Damocles does not remain suspended above them. In order to institutionalise the exchange phases that I mentioned and that they take place as early as possible, the Minister of the Interior issued a circular on 21 September 2020 – a commitment on my part – inviting the prefectures to implement "an early examination of applications for residence permits for foreign minors entrusted to the departmental child welfare department", in order to avoid any break in their integration path when they reach their majority. The question of the majority, integration and autonomy of young people on social assistance in France should not arise at "18 years minus one quarter". It can be seen in the territories that things work when the prefecture and the department anticipate from the age of 17, and that they take place around a table to assess what integration path it is – or not – and therefore in what perspective, even if it is without commitment, one can envisage the evolution of this young person. Under these conditions, things usually go better and without breaking up once the majority has been acquired. This is the meaning of the circular: all departments and prefectures must be able to adopt this approach of anticipation. Young nationals are invited to request, together with their departments, several months in advance all relevant documents, in particular from the consular services, which will enable the prefecture to ensure that the conditions for admission to the stay are met. Briefly, in order to comply with the President's injunctions and the time given to me, know that the issue of securing the evaluation phase will also condition what will happen at the time of access to the majority. The use of the minority assessment support file, of which I know it has been able to generate some debate, even though it has now been adopted by a very large majority of departments – only a dozen of them do not use it – is part of the security of minority assessment which makes it easier, then, to accept the recognition of the majority and the possibility of issuing a residence permit.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u188	Mrs Sylvie Tolmont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u189	Thank you for your answer, Secretary of State. Let me give you a concrete case. You know that, by their majority, young people with child welfare can sign a "young major contract" that allows them to receive financial support. I was told that, in order for this help to reach them, they had to pass on their bank ID. Only problem: to open a bank account, you have to have identity papers! We can't really get out of situations that are totally catastrophic.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u190	We have concluded the oral questions without debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-23-O1209.u191	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Questions to the Government; Presentation of the annual report of the Court of Auditors; Discussion on the Government's policy in favour of associations. The meeting is adjourned.
