ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u1	The next item is the continuation of the discussion of the draft law on criminal responsibility and internal security (No. 4387, 4442).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u2	Last night, the Assembly continued its discussion of the articles of the bill, stopping with amendment No. 109 to article 7.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u3	Amendment No 109 is not being defended. I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendments Nos 36, 37, 38 and 39, which can be put together.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u4	Amendments Nos 36 and 37 are being defended, and I will focus on Amendments Nos 38 and 39, which are a little more important to me. They tend to revert to the provisions of article 7, paragraph 14, that video surveillance treatments cannot be coupled with sound capture or biometric devices. I have wondered a lot about these provisions, because sound recording could, in some cases, be very useful. As I said in committee, for the video protection used in police custody cells to be effective, a police officer must be permanently behind the screens. In some police stations, the room where the video surveillance screens are located is not close to the police cells. But you know as well as I do as the police – and it is absolutely not a reproach that I make to them – cannot spend their days in front of the screens checking what is happening in the cells, because they are busy with many other tasks: responding to the public, filling out administrative forms and files, talking with their current business colleagues. I went to the Beziers police station on Monday again to check how it was going, and I confirm that they can't pay 100% attention to the protective cameras. It therefore seems to me important to pair the video protection with a sound recording device, which would immediately alert the policeman, who is not permanently behind his screen – and it is normal, I repeat – that something happens in a cell: assault of one being held in custody by another being held in custody, attempted suicide, crisis of anxiety. The Commissioner of Béziers explained to me that, if this is not the case in his police station, in others, the viewing rooms of the video protection screens are distant from the police cells, sometimes even on another floor, which is therefore a problem. It seems to me that sound capture would make it more efficient.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u5	Mr Jean-Michel Mis, rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, gave the opinion of the Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u6	We have already had this debate in committee: you know my interest in issues related to biometric data and my commitment to improving the capture tools, but paragraph 12 determines how video surveillance cameras are to be used, and specifies the techniques and means to be used. From this point of view, the device you are proposing does not seem to be a good idea, because the sound captured will not only be an atmosphere sound: in the sense of the National Commission on Informatics and Freedoms (CNIL), it is a biometric data. Therefore, your proposal would weaken the constitutionality of the scheme. However, we are anxious to stick scrupulously to what is advocated by the Constitutional Council. I therefore express an unfavorable opinion on the four amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u7	The Minister for the Interior has the floor to give the Government's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u8	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u9	Mrs Alexandra Louis has the floor to support Amendment No. 374.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u10	It aims to strengthen article 7, which establishes an indispensable and very interesting tool for police officers: video surveillance during police custody. According to this article, the detainee has 48 hours from the lifting of custody to request the retention of video surveillance images for an additional seven days. It seems to me that this has been planned at the invitation of the Council of State. Therefore, it seems to me that there is an inconsistency in the text: paragraph 16 provides that records are kept for a maximum of 48 hours. This means that, if they can be kept for all this time, they can also be kept for twenty-four, twelve, ten hours or even three minutes! In fact, in practice, the person in custody will not always be able to request the preservation of images, and the device will be inoperative in some cases. However, the images taken from the videos can contribute to the manifestation of the truth and facilitate the investigation of the police. We therefore propose to delete the word "maximum".
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u11	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u12	Without changing the general philosophy of Article 7, this amendment reinforces the clarity and legibility of the provisions on the retention period of data. That is why I am expressing a favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u13	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u14	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u15	I have before me two amendments, Nos 183 and 368, which can be discussed jointly. I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 183.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u16	I will be brief, because we have already discussed it in committee. It seems to me important to extend the retention period of the recordings and to extend it to seven days, without this being possible only at the request of the person in custody. The aim of this amendment is better protection of our law enforcement agencies. I repeat the example I had given in committee: imagine that when he left, a policeman, who was registered for 24 hours, would pass the legal time limit during which he could have requested that the recordings be kept and would return 48 hours later, claiming that he had been ill-treated while in police custody. If, in the meantime, the recording has been erased, he can very well argue that he was ill-treated by another person in custody, or even by a police officer – sometimes the detainees are in bad faith! Keeping the recordings automatically for seven days, which is not a very long time, nor a violation of freedoms, without the fact that the detainee specifically requests it, would simplify the procedures and would be an important step forward for the protection of law enforcement personnel.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u17	Mrs Alexandra Louis has the floor to support Amendment No. 368.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u18	It is intended to extend the retention period for registrations to 72 hours, which had already been extended from 24 hours to 48 hours in committee. The reason is very simple: in practice, it will be impossible, if not impossible, at least very difficult to allow detainees to request the retention of records. Indeed, at the end of a police custody, the individual is often defeated in the course of a procedure. However, the images that can be recorded during police custody are interesting and can contribute to the manifestation of the truth. Ms. Emmanuelle Ménard referred to several examples in which these images would be useful: one in police custody mistreated by another, or who claims to have been mistreated by a police officer, for example. The images allow everyone to agree. In addition, in many judicial cases, access to images saves time by avoiding confrontation and hearing hours. Indeed, in the face of the video, an individual who denied the facts tends to confess. These images, which facilitate investigations, are therefore important for both the person in custody and the police. In addition, you told me in committee, Mr rapporteur, that the scheme could pose a constitutional problem. I have carefully reviewed the decision of the Constitutional Council, and it is not because of the length of time the images were kept that a similar provision had previously been censored, but because of the length of time that a person can be filmed in police custody. The Council of State itself had considered that the possibility for detainees to request the preservation of images for seven days was a guarantee. As the amendment seeks to strengthen this aspect of the system, I therefore believe that it provides an additional guarantee from a constitutional point of view.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u19	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u20	I will be careful not to be a constitutionalist, Madame Louis, and I will be content to be a modest legislator. Observance of a principle in the Constitutional Council's decision was contained in it: conservation must be strictly necessary and proportionate to the purposes pursued. In committee, at the initiative of Antoine Savignat, the retention period of the data was increased from twenty-four to forty-eight hours. This seems to me the maximum duration during which we can reasonably keep the images. I am therefore against the two proposed amendments, which are in the same spirit.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u21	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u22	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u23	I have before me two amendments, Nos 317 and 150, which can be discussed jointly. I call Mrs Lamia El Aaraje to support Amendment No. 317.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u24	In view of the content of the debate and the fate reserved for my colleagues' amendments, I do not have too much doubt as to what follow-up will be given to it! However, I think it is important to share with you the discussion we had in committee about the length of time images were kept, as the Government was not represented at that meeting. In committee, the shelf life of the images was increased from twenty-four to forty-eight hours. My colleagues now propose to increase it to seventy-two hours or even seven days. My amendment is intended to extend the retention period for up to 30 days. Indeed, the intention of the text is not only to prevent a possible escape, but also to protect detainees against possible violence, whether committed by others in police custody or by police officers. However, I think that when you leave custody, it takes time to distance yourself from what happened and discuss it with your lawyer. Leave only 48 hours to turn around and ask to view the images therefore does not seem very consistent. Seven days was a more acceptable time, but 30 days seem even better because, if legal proceedings are initiated, this time allows for meaningful, even probative, images and the avoidance of a number of problems.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u25	Amendment No 150 by Mrs Marie-George Buffet is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u26	We have already dealt with this subject in committee, but it is legitimate for you to repeat the terms of the debate. In the same spirit of prudence which characterized my opinion on the previous amendments, it seems to me that it is excessive, and not even useful in fact, to extend the length of the preservation of the images. Indeed, keeping the recordings for a period of seven days seems sufficient to be able to view if it proves necessary because of an incident during police custody. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u27	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u28	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u29	Mrs Albane Gaillot has the floor to support Amendment No. 397.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u30	If some of my colleagues believe that an extension of the retention period of the images would be necessary, I believe that it would be necessary for the person under surveillance and his or her lawyer to have access to the recordings and a copy as soon as they so request. It would therefore be necessary for the recordings, important to guarantee the rights of the defence, to be placed on the record. This amendment was proposed by the National Bar Council (CNB).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u31	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u32	I hear your arguments, Ms. Gaillot, but if an incident occurs during police custody, the person placed under video surveillance may request, for probative purposes, the prolonged retention of the recordings for seven days in order to objectify within that period the facts that would have taken place. There is no reason why a copy of the records should be systematically provided to the person concerned. It is not possible to prejudge the use by such persons or by third parties of such recordings, which could, for example, be put online or broadcast on the Internet, thus diverting the reason why video surveillance can be put in place. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u33	Mrs Lamia El Aaraje has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u34	In May 2021, the Constitutional Council censored provisions of the law for a comprehensive security that preserves freedoms, including the possibility of capturing drone images in the context of administrative police operations. This Article reintroduces some of these provisions. We have heard Mr. Minister's argument that the Government has taken the opinion of the Constitutional Council into account, but it seems to us to be playing as close as possible to the limits set by the Council, at the risk of exceeding them. In the first place, it is the prefect who issues the authorization: as much as to say that it is the controlled controller. We have experienced it hard, especially in Paris, during the so-called yellow vest demonstrations for many weeks. Today it is the very policy of maintaining order that poses a problem in the context of demonstrations, which, I would like to remind you, are a fundamental right in our Republic. We believe that the authorization should have been returned to a magistrate in the context of judicial police operations, i.e. for the purpose of identifying and arresting the perpetrators. On this point, Mr Minister, I would like to say a little bit about our amendment No. 319 to Article 18, which offers the possibility of using drones with camera in a judicial framework with regard to the very specific subject of motorised rodeos. It is a highly anticipated disposition by many local elected officials and residents who are subjected to these rodeos. Secondly, the article provides that the use of these tools must be strictly necessary for the missions concerned. However, in the current wording, this is not really the case. Finally, the law is intended to define these tasks in precise terms. But they are very vague, you will agree. There will therefore be no limitation on the authority of the administrative authority with regard to the deployment of these surveillance drones. That is why we are very opposed to this article. As with video protection, which we discussed yesterday, we are absolutely not hostile to the device itself, but it must be brought into a judicial framework, which we believe is better suited to.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u35	I have before me four identical amendments, Nos 140, 226, 318 and 389, to delete the article. I call Mr Lecoq to support Amendment No. 140.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u36	The members of the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left oppose the adoption of this article, whose provisions governing the use of drones were already present in the draft law for global security: we had already opposed it when we examined this text. The article as set out in the above-mentioned Act was censored by the Constitutional Council, because the reasons for the use of drones were far too broad, a fear which we had told you and which you had not heard. However, we recognize a major step forward in this text, since neither facial recognition nor automated interconnection or linkage with other personal data processing will be implemented from captured images. However, we are surprised to see this article come back to Parliament once again, when the guarantees provided seemed to us to be minimal. Finally, drones can be deployed in almost any situation. We cannot be satisfied with a society that is gradually drifting towards mass surveillance. In addition, it seems to us to be inefficient in terms of deterrence and prevention, and the use of airborne cameras cannot be a substitute for human resources. In many departments, law enforcement agencies are not sufficient to properly carry out public security missions. We regret that this aspect is once again forgotten in this bill, as the operational reserve does not, in our view, address this issue, as we told you last night. Furthermore, the Council of State points out, I quote, that "the legislation in question would have become more coherent and readable with the creation of a unified regime for all the cameras used by the State services or, at the very least, with the harmonization of the rules applicable to the police and gendarmerie services, on the one hand, and civil security, on the other, and with the explicit recognition of a legal regime for the supervision of the use of airborne cameras in the context of judicial police missions". He "sorrys that the draft, it is true, drafted in a short time, does not retain either of these two options".
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u37	I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 226.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u38	We are against the very principle of surveillance by drones, even with the guarantees – I put guarantee quotes – proposed here. Moreover, it is strange, or cunning, that the new proposal has withdrawn, in relation to the law for global security, the possibility of using drones in judicial matters, whereas it was the only matter where the use of drones could be controlled by the judicial authority, control ensuring a minimum of guarantees – for example, the purpose pursued or the duration of use. On the other hand, you include in the text that it is a matter of preventing acts of terrorism. As it is said, at the same time, that terrorism can strike everywhere, all the time, no matter how, it means that, on this one criterion alone, you will be able to deploy drones throughout the national territory, without even having to warn the citizens filmed, with the usual rengains: "If you have nothing to blame yourself for, if you have nothing to hide, what are you afraid of? » I fear the usual drifts in this country of surveillance systems – not to mention their inefficiency. I stress this last point: because we have already used drones during demonstrations – the police prefect of Paris Lallement has been customary in this use. Has it achieved any results in the management of demonstrations, including a reduction in violence or a better consideration of arrests? No: we have observed, while drones were being used, the same tear gas scenarios you want and nasses, while the Council of State itself has criticized them as a method of maintaining law and order. That means we're being smeared about the utility of these kinds of devices. I pass on the fact that the department did not even wait for the text to be voted to buy drones.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u39	I call Mrs Lamia El Aaraje to support Amendment No. 318.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u40	This deletion amendment will not surprise you after I address the article, which incorporates the provisions rebutted by the Constitutional Council of the law for comprehensive security. The criteria for the supervision of drone surveillance are too vague and the guarantees too difficult to correlate with fundamental freedoms. When I see the rigour required by video protection systems, I am surprised that, in this context, which is much more open, we are not able to offer precise guarantees of fundamental freedoms. I talked about motorized rodeos. It seems to me that the use of this drone image capture is much more appropriate in this case, since it takes place in a judicial framework. This is proof that we are not opposed in principle. It is the very policy of maintaining order that needs to be examined. It is not the use of drones that will make it possible to modify it. Working groups have been set up on a European scale in connection with the elected representatives of the City of Paris, following what happened with the yellow vests: their conclusions do not seem uninteresting to me. They would undoubtedly deserve further discussion in order to formulate proposals. We cannot accept that, systematically, when a demonstration takes place somewhere in this country, and mainly in the Paris region, we fear for goods and people. People today no longer want to participate in demonstrations, for fear of consequences. It's not normal. As for traders, neither do they have to suffer any damage. However, drones will absolutely not respond to the problem of public order disturbances in the context of demonstrations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u41	Mr Jean-Michel Clément has the floor to support Amendment No. 389.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u42	The Liberties and Territories Group, which, as you know, is very committed to respect for individual and collective freedoms, obviously opposes this scheme and calls for its abolition. I would like to draw a parallel with other techniques used in intelligence: they are very intrusive but also very controlled, even when it comes to terrorism, notably by the National Commission for the Control of Intelligence Techniques (CNCTR), whose chairman was renewed yesterday in the Law Commission. However, the current text prejudges a disorder linked to a demonstration to deploy surveillance techniques that will not be controlled by anyone. I wonder, if not about an ever greater restriction of our freedoms, at least about the creation of increasingly intrusive devices. This is not the first time, during this quinquennium, that you have been waiting for freedoms. You're still taking a step to settle a particular case. Our group is very opposed to this approach and perhaps we will go further to try to bring down this mechanism, which, I repeat, is too intrusive and does not offer any guarantees for those who will be victims of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u43	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u44	The opinion is against these deletion amendments. However, I will take a little time to respond, as Article 8 governs the implementation by security forces and customs officers of image capture devices by airborne cameras, whether installed in aircraft, helicopters or drones. As with Articles 7 and 9, it is up to the legislator to establish a clear and coherent legal regime, in order to preserve the operational usefulness of these new tools while guaranteeing the right to privacy and the protection of personal data. This is the direction that was mine when I presented my report to the Prime Minister on this subject last week and it is, of course, still mine as the rapporteur of this bill. Again, following contentious decisions of the Council of State in 2020, the Constitutional Council's decision on the Global Security Act censored most of the provisions of the Act for several reasons. The purposes for which drones could be used were particularly broad, such as the fight against all contraventional offences or the objective of ensuring compliance with municipal ordinances. In addition, the law did not provide for any limitation on the duration of the use of a drone by the judicial or administrative authority. Moreover, the use of drones was not subsidiary in administrative police matters. Finally, contrary to the applicable rules on intelligence – Mr Clément, I would like to point out that I was, alongside Mr Guillaume Larrivé, his president, together with Mr Loïc Kervran, rapporteur of the mission to assess the 2015 law on intelligence – with regard, for example, to the use of IMSI-catchers, no quota of the number of drones was provided for by law. For all these reasons, the framework thus laid down appeared insufficiently rigorous, which led to the censorship of most of the provisions governing the use of drones. The purpose of article 8 is precisely to draw the consequences of constitutional jurisprudence and to provide all the guarantees necessary for the protection of privacy, because the principle of the use of airborne cameras is not in itself contrary to the Constitution: on this point I refer you to the opinion of the Council of State. For example, Article 8 states that the use of airborne cameras may be aimed only at limitedly listed administrative police purposes, such as, for example, the prevention of attacks on the safety of persons, the prevention of acts of terrorism, border surveillance or the regulation of transport flows. The shelf life of the data shall be limited to seven days. The operating conditions of the airborne cameras are strictly regulated. The use of airborne cameras shall be subject to a prefectural authorisation procedure, subject to a double quota to determine the maximum number of cameras capable of making the recordings. All these provisions are based on the remarks made by the Constitutional Council, which guarantees both the operationality of the system and its legal certainty.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u45	What is the Government's view?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u46	The rapporteur has said everything, so I will be brief. I do not want to overburden our debate on a subject that has already taken us a long time to consider the comprehensive security bill. I would simply point out in my turn that we have drawn the consequences of the decision of the Constitutional Council on this previous text and of the decision of the Council of State on the national pattern of law and order. Of course, it is not an attack on the freedom to fly helicopters with cameras or drones. Once again, today, the ban on the use of drones applies to only one category of the population: the police and the gendarmes. That the use of airborne cameras is framed and subject to a particular status seems normal, but this ban seems somewhat excessive, you will agree! The drone is not quite a flying camera because it is not governed by the same privacy techniques – we have already discussed it extensively. In a spirit of compromise, we had proposed a system that seemed to us balanced: a procedure for authorisation by the judicial authority for the purposes of judicial use; a prefectural authorisation procedure for administrative police purposes. However, the Constitutional Council felt that we need to go further in legal protection and construction. The CNIL and the jurists, for their part – unlike the opposition parties – advocate a unique legal status for all the images recorded, whether they are captured by video protection cameras, mobile cameras or drones. This will undoubtedly be a long and complicated task, which we will perhaps carry out in the framework of the future law of orientation and programming for the performance of internal security (LOPPSI), announced by the President of the Republic, in the continuity of the White Paper on internal security. Let's go back to Article 8: it is designed to respond to the urgency of the situation, since we have the imperative need to fly drones. We are already doing so in exceptional circumstances where the risk of imminent harm to national security is proven – of course, with the agreement of the judge, always very understanding on this subject. As far as public order is concerned, Mrs El Aaraje, you can threaten me with all the trials in the world, I reiterate that the system of maintaining French public order is a very good system, welcomed by almost all international observers. We faced a year of violence against police and gendarmes without ever threatening the life of a protestor. In reality, my action is in line with the work of Bernard Cazeneuve and Manuel Valls, ministers of a socialist government.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u47	Stop your provocations!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u48	Obviously, you're radically moving away from it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u49	They're not provocations!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u50	[[Mr Ugo Bernalicis and Ms Lamia El Aaraje questioned]] Bernard Cazeneuve and Manuel Valls were, however, not known for trying to undermine freedoms. Mr Bernalicis, Mrs El Aaraje, you will discuss your programmatic and ideological differences later! This is not a political union meeting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u51	Don't be condescending!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u52	In any event, it is not an insult to refer you to Mr. Cazeneuve and Mr. Valls. These great socialist ministers of the interior have included their action in the continuity of that of Georges Clemenceau, who deeply inspired the French doctrine of the maintenance of public order and who was very attentive to respect for fundamental freedoms. Mr. Clément himself once supported the governments to which these two ministers belonged, which carried out a policy in this area which I would personally have nothing to say about. There is not, on the one hand, governments that defend freedoms and, on the other, those that do not support them. If that were the case, our debate would not have much interest. In order to ensure public order in good conditions, it is obviously necessary to limit the use of force, but also to equip ourselves with the instruments necessary to respond to the difficulties that characterize our times, linked in particular to the reduction of the services of order in demonstrations. It is obviously not the same to watch a demonstration of a few million people, with an important service of order, in the capital, and hundreds of demonstrations every Saturday, in France, without order services – demonstrators have of course the right to protest, but with absolute respect for property and people. Problems also arise when law enforcement officials are blind to spills or have not received the training that would enable them to perform this task effectively. One of the mistakes made by our country has been to reduce the number of police officers, CRS and mobile gendarmes,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u53	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u54	... whose job is precisely to supervise the demonstrations and who have been trained to do so. Let us not confuse the subjects, the French strategy for maintaining order and the use of image capture techniques by airborne cameras. Everyone can easily understand this: while the drone does not solve everything, it is a useful source of information for decision-making in the command rooms. It also offers everyone the opportunity to refer to the images of what happened. Mrs. El Aaraje, you're a little contradictory. I would obviously have liked the judicial purposes for which drones can be used to integrate urban rodeos. The Government had proposed it, but our text was censored by the Constitutional Council. We will have to come back to the subject when we recast the legal status of images in our country. It is obvious that in order to fight against urban rodeos that rot the lives of our fellow citizens, the use of video protection cameras is not enough. By definition, motocross, which makes noise in a neighbourhood and kills pedestrians – still very recently in Toulouse – owes its power of nuisance to its mobility. However, it is much easier to organize video patrols with drones than with video protection cameras, which not all municipalities have, which can be understood. I would also like to repeat this, particularly to Mr Clément: the legal regime relating to the capture of images that we propose in Article 8 is quite attackable, and much more so than intelligence techniques. The administrative authorization now issued by the prefect for the use of an airborne camera will, in fact, be, like all the administrative authorizations, attackable before the judge of freedoms that is the administrative judge – to the administrative court and possibly the Council of State, which validated the device upstream – it is a strange violation of freedoms that the one that is approved by the Council of State, you will agree! The judge may also assess the proportionality of each use of drones proposed by the administration with regard to the purpose pursued. I repeat, every citizen or organization will have the opportunity to attack the administrative order made by a prefect. This regime is therefore much more protective than that prevailing for intelligence techniques. It is quite rare for us to seize the administrative court when we're tapped – in general, we don't know! The authorisation is given by politicians – of which I am, of course – not to mention the consultation of an independent administrative authority, which does not inform citizens a priori. I will not go further on the legal regime for intelligence techniques, but I cannot let it be said that freedoms are better protected when the Directorate-General for Internal Security (DGSI) places individuals on wiretap than when the prefect makes an official order, which is open to dispute by everyone before the administrative court. So it seems to me that you are going a little far in your argument, Mr. Member! We therefore need Article 8 for both the police and our fellow citizens. It is proportionate and respectful of the decision of the Constitutional Council, it proposes a mechanism guaranteeing fundamental freedoms, while taking into account current technological developments. The thugs today, you know, fly drones. We must be part of the same revolution of maintaining order as that initiated by prefect Louis Lépine: when thugs started using cars, the police used cars; When the thugs used the phone, the phone was installed in the police stations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u55	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u56	That's right! Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u57	[[Applause on the banks of the LaREM group. – Mrs BlandineBrocardapplauditedalso]] What was possible in the 19th century should also be possible in the 21st century!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u58	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u59	Contrary to what you say, minister, an individual can't fly drones whenever he wants, wherever he wants.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u60	He can fly drones!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u61	An authorisation regime applies according to the categories of drones. You say anyone can fly a drone and spy on everyone except the police. It's a counter-truth! You are making fun not only of us, but also of the regulations in force in our country. And if drones are used illegally, then the police should intervene. To make sure that fewer drones circulate, it would be, for the moment, a beautiful administrative police mission! But this is obviously not your political project, since on the contrary you want to use more drones. Fortunately, thugs don't use rocket launchers:...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u62	They're already doing it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u63	...you would be able to explain to us tomorrow that the police must also use them! See the ineptity of your reasoning – but we're used to it. Let us recall, moreover, what the Council of State noted on 22 December 2020 in its decision on the use of drones to monitor demonstrations in Paris: "The Minister does not provide any evidence that the objective of guaranteeing public safety during public gatherings of people on the public road could not be fully achieved, in the present circumstances, in the absence of the use of drones. » You say that we need drones, but, Minister, you did not demonstrate it either before the Council of State – otherwise you would certainly have obtained a more favourable decision – or in this House. You do not tell us why drones are useful, effective, or even indispensable and why we miss them today. You don't demonstrate it, because you're unable to do it. What you want, in fact, is a new monitoring tool, in case... "You understand, drones exist: you have to use them! » Fortunately, we do not use all existing technologies. The responsibility of the legislator is precisely to determine which are to be implemented and when. It is not because the Constitutional Council has nothing against the drones themselves that Parliament must support their use, a fortiori in the case before us. The aims pursued – the prevention of terrorism, the maintenance of law and order – and the safeguards set out in the bill are absolutely not convincing. We refuse this mass surveillance, since it is indeed this – more than 600 drones have already been purchased by the Ministry of the Interior. If you were to tell us that you were surprised by the censorship of the Constitutional Council and that you have already ordered a large number of drones, which must now be used to be profitable, then we could possibly understand your reasoning, but that is not what you are holding. Why do you insist so much on the necessary use of drones? Are you a Watch Dogs player?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u64	Oh, it's okay!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u65	Did you fall in love with the game? Did you think it was great to be watched 24 hours a day? What happened? We'd like to understand! We, for our part, have many arguments against the operative part of this bill. We presented them during the discussion of the draft law on global security, and we presented them again in this debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u66	Please conclude, my colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u67	In any case, your arguments are a little light, minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u68	Mrs Lamia El Aaraje has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u69	I am delighted, Mr Darmanin, that you are referring to Bernard Cazeneuve and Manuel Valls, but I am not sure that you are acting quite in the same political spirit as them – let us not pollute, we are not here to redo the world, even though you are suggesting the opposite. With regard to the Constitutional Council, he did not object in principle to the use of drones for judicial purposes: he simply pointed out that the text was poorly written. Your assertions are therefore incorrect. Moreover, the use of drones by police and gendarmes is already taking place, as we have seen in Paris, but it takes place outside the legal framework. It is therefore necessary to regulate this practice, but in a precise way. I am surprised by your comments on policing policy. How can you say that it is a territorial success? That's absolutely not true! Out of respect for the Parisians, you should recognize that it has generally failed, whether it is yellow vests or any other manifestation at this time. I live in the 20th arrondissement of Paris. A short time ago, a demonstration on a pointless subject, which was not the subject of any particular report, took place between the door of the Lilas and the Republic: there was a real carnage!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u70	Pay attention to the meaning of words!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u71	And this for many reasons. I do not question the goodwill of the demonstrators, helpless in the face of the breakers, or that of the policemen present, who did what they could, but the instructions given and the authorization granted did not correspond at all to the nature of the neighbourhood in which the demonstration took place. As a result, dozens of traders and families suffered from spillovers and had to be financially accompanied to climb the slope, in a context of an already difficult health crisis. Such a delicate subject deserves to be discussed with honesty. You are the only one who believes that the policy of maintaining law and order in Paris is a great success at the international level.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u72	It's not just Paris in France!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u73	In this case, I am talking about Paris.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u74	Mrs Blandine Brocard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u75	Mr Bernalicis, you have once again made your point of speaking in a nuance and in a position to do so! [[Mr. Ugo Bernalicis exclaimed]] You're asking why the minister insists so much on airborne camera image capture devices. I do not have a priori about them, but I hear what the representatives of the law enforcement agencies say on the ground: they are deprived in certain situations. Yesterday we referred to the case of people who refuse to stop their vehicles at the request of the police. Of course, I'm thinking about chase races and urban rodeos.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u76	This is a judicial matter!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u77	Can you let me talk, Mr. Bernalicis?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u78	Mr Bernalicis, we listened to you; Mrs Brocard now has to speak.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u79	Thank you, Mr. President! It is easy to understand, in the case of chase races and urban rodeos, how drones can be a useful tool for law enforcement. As for the demonstrations, Mrs El Aaraje, they are currently a problem. We saw it during those of the yellow vests: because they are very mobile, the black blocks are very difficult to question. In this particular case, he does not shock me that the police are using drones to better spot them. I would like to add one last thing, which is certainly no longer a matter of law or legislation: in our society, the dissemination of images is omnipresent, and these images are often truncated. At the individual level, this does not ultimately pose a problem to anyone. I therefore do not see why this tool could not be made available to law enforcement.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u80	Mr. Jean Terlier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u81	I would like to react very quickly to the words of my Socialist colleague. I hope that she will not believe that I am holding her to it, but I heard her, at the turn of an explanation, telling us all the harm she thinks of the proposed scheme. She reportedly observed, in Paris, the forces of law and order using drones without permission.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u82	I didn't say that!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u83	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u84	[[Mr. Ugo Bernalicis protested]] Yes, yes, dear colleague, that's what you said. You just said it! Be careful what you say! In your opinion, the law enforcement agencies use these devices when they are not allowed to do so. We cannot afford to make such accusations to the cantonate, at the turn of an argument: this seems to me to be very inappropriate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u85	Once again, we listen to each other!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u86	On the merits, you have heard, in the course of the hearings conducted in committee, that the law enforcement agencies need this kind of device. I therefore do not see why you object in principle to the proposed procedures, when they are accompanied by guarantees which must allow for restricted use. It is necessary to stop systematically opposing, as a matter of principle, everything that is proposed; Such an attitude is absolutely abnormal because it is necessary – I repeat – that the forces of law and order can use such devices.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u87	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u88	We cannot allow anything to be said at all, and I would like to thank Mr Terlier for pointing out in part. First of all, it is obvious that we cannot fly a drone until we have obtained the definitive authorization of the CNIL, the Council of State and the Constitutional Council: since decisions have notified us that we cannot use drones until a specific legal regime has been approved by the legislator – I note that the administrative authorities and the Council of State have sometimes contradicted each other, one saying that we do not need a law, the other that we need one – no drone flies. Out of respect for the leaders of the Republic, let's stop saying anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u89	All right?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u90	[[Ms. Lamia El Aaraje and Mr. Ugo Bernalicis laugh]] [[Mr. Ugo Bernalicis applauds]] Then I say to the Member: I think her words have exceeded her mind. The word "carnage" has a meaning: we should first use the words in a proportionate manner, because it is moderation that should govern these essential issues. We obviously have an ideological dispute: you are on Mr Bernalicis' line, while I am on Bernard Cazeneuve's line. Yes, I do! But it doesn't matter! This raises a fundamental question, namely, how to build government parties, but it is another subject. However, such a disagreement still has a meaning: it shows that, in essence, these issues are political. For our part, we believe that security is the guarantee of freedom, including to demonstrate, to go and to come. There! We trust the forces of law and order to use force in a proportionate manner, according to the law. This does not prevent controls and sanctions from being imposed on those who, within a specific framework, do not respect the limits of the legitimate violence they have a monopoly on, for example, using the force at their disposal or the images they capture for something other than what is provided for by law. Sanctions are provided for and this is all the more so since the use of drones is subject to an authorisation scheme; the device is therefore very framed. As for you, you assume that things are going wrong by definition. You don't have a word for the 6000 policemen and gendarmes injured during the yellow vest demonstrations,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u91	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u92	[[Applause on the banks of the LaREM group. – Mrs BlandineBrocardapplauditedalso]] ... while not a single protestor – look at how things are going in all the other countries of the world – did not die as a result of the police or gendarmerie throughout this year of mobilization. We could still thank the police and the gendarmes! That'd be the least I can do. They have worked in very deplorable conditions, faced with people who come to fight against them with iron bars, mine bars, handguns, weapons all at once!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u93	But yes, recognize it, it's factual!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u94	Yes, it is the facts: there are people who fire police cars, public and private property, or who attack historical monuments, and you have no word to deplore it. After three interventions on your part, I think it's quite revealing of some kind of thought! Mr Bernalicis, you are really saying anything to support your thesis. Today, every citizen can fly a drone! If he wants him to fly over houses, he has to apply for permission, but he has the right to ask for it. It is not just about citizens: film production houses or local authorities – who use it for example to make their end-of-year wish video –...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u95	Surveyors, too!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u96	... can also fly drones, without even asking for permission, for example on industrial land. Anyone who wishes can fly a drone! This sometimes requires authorization, when you want to pass over a garden or a private place, but the police and the gendarmerie are not allowed to do so, even with permission! This is precisely the purpose of the text: that they may be allowed to do so. But no one within them will be able to do so without having transmitted a specific administrative act, which will have to present the problem justifying the flight of a drone, on the basis of the law and the regulations. The document in question must be made public and may be challenged before the Administrative Court and the Council of State. Among all those who fly drones, police officers and gendarmes are therefore subject to the most restrictive regime! Therefore, Mr. Bernalicis, please, you have the right to say that you do not like drones and to think that the police and gendarmerie should not use them; You even have the right to think that all police officers and gendarmes have by nature only one desire, that of violating public order or the individual freedom of persons, but do not say the opposite of the truth: today, every citizen can apply for permission to fly his personal drone, and every company – capitalist, M.P. –...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u97	No big words!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u98	[[Applause on the banks of the LaREM group. – Mrs BlandineBrocardapplauditedalso]] ... may also fly a drone after applying for permission, but the French Republic administration cannot. There! What is allowed to local authorities, businesses and citizens, we simply ask that the law enforcement authorities be able to benefit from it, in the context of an administrative authorisation which may, moreover, be contested.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u99	It's common sense!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u100	I call Mr Pacôme Rupin to support Amendment No. 276.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u101	[[Mr. Ugo Bernalicis applauds]] For my part, I don't like drones, it's true. I disagree with my political family on this subject and I believe that this is a social debate that is not anecdotal. We cannot simply follow technological progress: we must guide it according to what we want for our society. I agree with you, minister: in a way, I find that the legal framework currently governing the use of drones by individuals is too lax.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u102	That's something else!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u103	To be totally consistent with what I think of drones, I would be to frame their use further. The aim of this amendment is to create two separate legal frameworks, one for drones and the other for helicopters or aircraft directly driven by human beings. I believe that some of our fellow citizens – I am one of them – do not want the use of drones to become widespread, and more particularly – this is what we are interested in – by law enforcement. Drones are intrusive aircraft, whose presence in airspace leads in a way to a dehumanisation of the relationship between citizens and the police. That is how our fellow citizens perceive it, and it is not positive. Moreover, given their modest cost, they can be used much more systematically than helicopters or aircraft. I therefore have a real problem with paragraph 17 of Article 8: I do not imagine that the day-to-day surveillance of entire neighbourhoods by drones is possible. This would be tantamount to extending their use to a preventive purpose, not just in emergency situations. As a result of the censorship of the Constitutional Council, the article certainly introduced advances in respect for privacy. But we need to be very vigilant about the use of such powerful tools that, in my opinion, could run counter to many of our freedoms. This is not a technical debate: it is a question of defining how we view the use of new technologies in our society. That is why I am proposing such an amendment: its adoption would allow us to determine when drones can be used and when it is preferable to use conventional means, helicopters and aircraft, for which the proposed framework seems to me to be adequate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u104	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u105	[[Mrs. Blandine Brocard smiles]] You're making me despair, Mr. Rupin! I thought I had convinced you in committee, but I see that your amendment is back in session. My arguments may not be – unfortunately – sufficient,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u106	It's possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u107	...but contrary to what you say, a drone is not a robot. I think you need to integrate this reality: behind every drone is a tele operator. I would like to pay tribute to them: I have had the opportunity to meet with some of them to prepare the bill and I can tell you that they are very well trained, very professional and very attentive. I would therefore like to take this opportunity to greet them: these police officers, gendarmes or customs officers are doing a remarkable job. The purpose of this article is precisely to enable them to perform their duties even better and, also, to be less exposed to the risks unfortunately caused by certain demonstrators, who are acting dishonestly against the forces of law and order. With regard to your amendment, Mr.Rupin, clause 8 of the bill – contrary to section 47 of the Global Safety Act, with which you may be confusing – concerns all airborne cameras, whether drones or aircraft or helicopters. I therefore believe that the proposed measure further strengthens the protection you call for. Such a field of application is consistent: indeed, there is no need to distinguish images recorded by airborne cameras from aircraft – that is the legal term dedicated – depending on whether a person is on board or not. It is not so much the vector that poses a real problem as the conditions under which airborne cameras are used. That is why the committee is giving an unfavorable opinion on your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u108	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u109	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u110	Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u111	I have the impression that our police have bought the most ragged drones that can exist! I, for my part, already piloted a drone: it was equipped with quite extraordinary capabilities. Indeed, it was enough for me to target a person; Then the machine could follow her by itself, without me acting. I hear you say that the drone does not have autonomous capabilities similar to that of a robot, but that's not true! It has an autonomous capacity: it is available in drones accessible to the public and it is enough that the operator activates it – I myself used it during a wedding. The device therefore incorporates a capacity that looks like facial recognition: I repeat, once a person is targeted, the drone can follow it on its own, without the operator having to intervene again. In my opinion, a drone therefore allows you to enter a person's privacy,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u112	Depends on how you use it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u113	...by following it, for example, within a city. If such a possibility is not an attack on freedom, then I don't know what it is! I am a member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, like others here. When one wants to classify a state in terms of its relationship to individual freedoms, one observes its ability to monitor people – China, not to mention it, is often mentioned in this area. We are critical of situations of this type, and we all say that we would not like to live in a society characterized by permanent surveillance, exercised with cameras everywhere present, now integrating facial recognition. We do not want to live in such a society! And yet, gradually, for security reasons – the Chinese invoke the same arguments – our society is also developing these kinds of devices made possible by existing technical means. I invite you to resist this temptation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u114	I will give the floor to Messrs. Terlier and Rupin, who are from the same group, but I have the feeling that they don't have the same opinion. Mr. Jean Terlier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u115	[[Smile]] You have an excellent feeling, Mr. President. I would just like to say to my colleague Pacôme Rupin, for whom I have the greatest friendship, that the majority group likes drones! Apart from this, Mr Lecoq has just provided a counter-argument to Mr Rupin's remarks, which is in fact in line with what the rapporteur has explained very well. Mr. Lecoq says that at the end of the day drones are robots: but we can see that this is not the case! They must be driven by humans. Your demonstration, Mr. Lecoq, therefore does not stand up to the examination: for example, when you activate it, the video mode of your mobile phone runs on its own until you stop it; In the same way, in a car, once the regulator is launched, it works on its own! These technological improvements require mastery, human control at the beginning and end of use! So we can't compare drones to robots,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u116	Yes, I do!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u117	... which would be endowed with an autonomous consciousness and capacity for action.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u118	Mr Pacôme Rupin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u119	Thank you, Mr President, for giving me the floor again. Mr rapporteur, I also wanted to thank you. This amendment is different from the one I tabled in committee: as a result of our discussions, I was convinced that a specific framework for helicopters and aircraft should be established, and that the proposed framework was more respectful of privacy and our freedoms than currently exists. It is in the right direction, and it is for this reason that I have taken up this framework by drafting my new amendment. On the other hand, you say that drones are driven by people behind a screen. It is true, indeed, but it is important to stress that people, when they see a drone passing over their heads, do not quite perceive things in this way: they can wonder what the drone in question is for, and worry about it. On the contrary, when a gendarmerie or police helicopter, identified as such, intervenes, it is rather reassuring, because it is often in an emergency. However, the question – raised at the moment by Mr Lecoq – is whether these drones will be able to operate independently, which is conceivable in the light of current technological developments. Those who are used by the police cannot do so at present, but will be able to do so in the future. If we do not put black on white that a drone must be driven by a human being by interposed screen, the legal framework that we are adopting could allow the use of automatic police drones. That's not a small question. That is why I would have liked some clarification on this point. Does the framework that we are about to adopt prohibit the use by the police of drones operating automatically?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u120	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 40.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u121	With this appeal amendment I would like to supplement paragraph 6 – which states that "the captured images may be transmitted in real time to the command post of the service responsible for the conduct and execution of the intervention" – with the words "in order to analyse them". That is a bit of a meaning, you will tell me, and that is why I have made it clear that this is an appeal amendment. If this paragraph is in itself entirely relevant, obviously the question arises of the personnel to be assigned to the analysis of the images. Do we have enough staff to provide such an analysis or will this paragraph ultimately be very limited in scope?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u122	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u123	The precision you are asking does not seem necessary because, as you say yourself, it falls within the meaning that these images will be analyzed. As for the rules governing how they will be carried out, they are rather the responsibility of the regulatory power, the organisation of work and the training of operators responsible for exploiting these images. Request for withdrawal or, failing that, unfavorable notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u124	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 41.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u125	Based on a recommendation made during the hearings, I propose to amend paragraph 14 to provide that drone recordings shall be kept for a maximum of seven days, in order to increase this period to 16 days to align it with the maximum duration of the eight-day flagrance investigation, renewable once. During our work in committee, Mr rapporteur, you told me that this amendment would not be admissible because it could be struck with the seal of unconstitutionality. Why would this measure be unconstitutional when, precisely, I take care to align it with the maximum duration of the flagrance investigation? My proposal reflects a willingness to offer the forces of law and order maximum efficiency.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u126	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u127	Your amendment conveys a recommendation that was actually made at the hearings in which you participated, which I thank you for. I understand the purpose of this, but we are concerned that we should focus strictly on the decision of the Constitutional Council. Extending the maximum shelf life from seven to sixteen days appears excessive and disproportionate. This would lead to a legal imbalance in the system, at the risk of constitutional censorship. Therefore, I express an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u128	I have before me three amendments, Nos 77, 398 and 376, which can be discussed jointly. Amendment No 77 by Mr Yves Hemedinger is being defended. Mrs Natalia Pouzyreff has the floor in support of Amendment No 398.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u129	Of course, we are all committed to ensuring the safety and tranquillity of our fellow citizens. In this regard, the law of 3 August 2018 strengthening the fight against motorized rodeos has created a useful legislative arsenal in the fight against these rodeos, which this bill tends to strengthen, in particular, section 18, which we welcome. This article includes the possibility for law enforcement agencies to use airborne cameras in administrative matters, taking into account the decision of the Constitutional Council of 20 May. However, it does not seem to take rodeos into account. The amendment is therefore intended to add rodeos to the list of offences for which the use of camera devices on aircraft is possible in administrative matters. This is all the more justified in view of the growing exasperation of our fellow citizens in the face of this scourge, as urban rodeos are very dangerous. Should we recall that two passers-by died this summer after being hit by two-wheelers? In specific situations, demonstrating our ability to act using these airborne means can have a deterrent effect without allowing a sense of impotence to develop. It is of course important to preserve freedoms: the aim is to use these drones in a proportionate manner, as is done in other countries, by providing temporal and spatial limits and guarantees such as those offered in Article 8. The amendment is the result of one of the recommendations of the impact assessment mission of the law of 3 August 2018 strengthening the fight against motorised rodeos, which my colleague Robin Reda and I conducted and whose report we presented on 8 September. I will pay attention to your reply on this subject to the strengthening of measures to combat rodeos.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u130	Mrs Alexandra Louis has the floor to support Amendment No. 376.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u131	This amendment goes in the same direction as that of my colleague, whose work I would like to welcome is designed to better punish the participants in these rodeos. In Marseilles and elsewhere, law enforcement forces are mobilized on the ground against these urban rodeos that literally rot the lives of our fellow citizens and also endanger the police and gendarmes. In Marseille, more than 100 vehicles were confiscated and destroyed last year during targeted controls and many people were arrested. On this occasion, I would like to highlight the work of the police officers in the field. From experience, we know that video protection – including the use of drones – may be a very useful tool for police officers. They're the ones who talk the most about it. We had a debate about the value of video protection, about the use of drones. For my part, I have the memory of a visit by the minister to Marseilles, at the police station of the Nord quarter, in which some elected representatives of Marseilles were involved, who, as a matter of principle, were rather reluctant to use video protection. As we talked with the police, they were finally caught up in reality: these videos are useful in terms of prevention. The aim is to use drones in an administrative framework. We all know – elected, local, police – that these rodeos always take place in the same places. Let us allow police officers to monitor these areas in a supervised manner: this article also protects individual freedoms. Contrary to what some speakers have said, this is not mass surveillance at all. The idea is to prevent specific offences, in specific places, within a very specific framework as well.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u132	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u133	These amendments aim to extend the list of purposes under which airborne cameras may be authorised in order to include the fight against motorised rodeos. Other amendments will also propose to include other purposes, in particular with regard to the judicial police. Let me take the time to explain the committee's position on all of these amendments, which will prevent me from repeating it on each of them afterwards. First of all, I want to acknowledge the remarkable work of evaluating the law of 3 August 2018 that our colleagues Robin Reda and Natalia Pouzyreff have recently accomplished on motorized rodeos, which, in addition to being a dangerous practice for those who engage in it, cause unbearable nuisances for the residents. We are all faced with these difficulties, whether in Saint-Étienne, Marseille or elsewhere. Be assured that we are fully aware of the seriousness of this phenomenon and of the nuisance it causes to our fellow citizens. On these and the following amendments, which go beyond the purposes of the administrative policy currently provided for in Article 8, I shall, however, request a request for withdrawal and, failing that, issue an unfavourable opinion, for at least three reasons. Firstly, without in any way ignoring the importance of the nuisance caused by these motorized rodeos, it seems to me that they do not fall entirely within the same register as the offences listed in paragraph 17, such as trafficking in arms and narcotics or the risk of aggression. Including motorised rodeos on this list does not seem to me to be consistent on this point and could also unbalance the entire system, even though this is an element raised by the Constitutional Council in its decision of 20 May 2021. Secondly, article 8, paragraph 20, opens the possibility for the police and gendarmerie to use images captured by airborne cameras in order to regulate transport flows for the sole purpose of maintaining public order and security. This objective, which is strictly limited to the administrative police, should help to combat the practices contrary to the road code which these amendments describe. Thirdly, in a broader way and with regard to the extension of the aims to the activities of the judicial police, I will allow the Minister to reply, but I understand that the Government has just sought an opinion from the Council of State in order to determine whether it is legally necessary to adopt specific rules in this field, or whether the framework laid down in the Code of Criminal Procedure is already sufficient. Since this matter is still under discussion, it does not seem to me appropriate to decide it before receiving the reply from the Council of State. Hence the committee's position on these amendments, even though we share the concerns that have guided you in your work.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u134	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u135	The rapporteur invites me to speak, but he has said everything. So I'm going to be brief. We pursue the same goal: to allow the use of drones in the particular case of the fight against urban rodeos. We believe that there is no need for additional texts to do so when the chancery thinks otherwise. Or the other way around, I don't know anymore. Actually, it's the other way around. We have therefore asked the Council of State to know exactly what the rule of law is and whether it is necessary to adapt it. In order not to be foolish and to risk censorship, both administratively and judicially, we propose that we wait for the opinion of the Council of State, so that we can put in hard time, if I may say so, provisions that would enable us to legally regulate the use of these new techniques in the fight against urban rodeos. We call for the withdrawal of the amendments so that the Government can propose a better drafting of the text, while responding to your concerns.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u136	Mr. Jean Terlier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u137	I agree with the minister and the rapporteur, while stressing the quality of the work done by our colleagues Natalia Pouzyreff and Alexandra Louis on this subject. As the minister said very well, the decision of the Constitutional Council obliges us not to weaken the system envisaged and to limit the use of drones in the framework of the administrative police without extending it to that of the judicial police. That is why I also call for the withdrawal of these amendments so as not to weaken the mechanism that we are about to adopt.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u138	Mrs Natalia Pouzyreff has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u139	Taking note of the concerns expressed, I will withdraw Amendment No 398 pending the opinion of the Council of State. In any event, I thank the rapporteur for his words and the minister for his commitment in this area.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u140	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u141	Recall that in 2019, in its communication and the answers to written questions from parliamentarians, the Ministry of the Interior explained that the text recently adopted to combat motorised rodeos would suffice to apprehend the authors. You yourself keep repeating figures like that of 1600 vehicles seized. We therefore rest on the question: what is the use of drones in addition if the current system is already working properly? As usual, you continue to strengthen the click effect by allowing the use of increasingly intrusive devices, while it is not necessarily useful and proportionate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u142	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u143	I repeat to Mr Bernalicis that in the meantime the decisions of the CNIL and the Council of State have been taken. Previously, in the absence of a positive decision and in the silence of the law, certain practices were allowed. However, since we are republicans and democrats who are attentive to the rule of law, when an administrative authority and the Council of State explain to us that we can only use drones if the legislator exhausts his competence – which he does today – we comply with their decisions. Between 2019 and September 2021, the year 2020 and the beginning of the year 2021 ended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u144	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u145	The decision of the Council of State dates from December 2020!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u146	Mrs Alexandra Louis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u147	I thank the rapporteur and the minister for their very clear answers. We do agree on the appropriateness of using drones to fight motorised rodeos, and we all want to ensure that this is done in accordance with the Constitution. That is why I am withdrawing my amendment. We will be paying attention, in the future, to the opinion that the Council of State will give.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u148	I have before me three amendments, Nos 185, 399 and 184, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 185 and 399 are identical. I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 185.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u149	The amendment aims to allow, in the context of a three-year experiment – to meet the reservations of the Council of State – the use of these videos in the collection of evidence, the finding of offences, as well as the identification and prosecution of the perpetrators. This evidence would allow in particular – as has already been said, but it is important to repeat – to prosecute the perpetrators of urban rodeos in the framework of the judicial police's missions and to stop this scourge, which is detrimental to the tranquillity of the inhabitants. Since the doctrine that prevails in France is to ban race-prosecution, things cannot remain as it is: everyone sees the exasperation that this phenomenon provokes among our fellow citizens. If we have to wait for the approval of the Council of State to make progress in this area, then testing the use of drones to suppress urban rodeos would, in my view, be a good medium term.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u150	Mrs Natalia Pouzyreff has the floor to support Amendment No. 399.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u151	As part of the law assessment mission of 3 August 2018 to strengthen the fight against motorized rodeos that we conducted jointly, Robin Reda and I stressed that the law enforcement agencies are not empowered to prosecute and hunt the perpetrators of these acts. One can understand this, because of the collateral damage this could cause and the risks to passers-by who would be caught in such chase races. We also noted a difficulty in collecting evidence and identifying the authors. We welcome the contributions of the present text, in particular the fact that article 9 opens up the possibility for law enforcement officials to have on-board cameras and the deployment of stone-cameras. Nevertheless, we consider it necessary to combine several means, including, why not, the use of drones by law enforcement agencies in judicial matters. This recommendation is contained in the report prepared by Robin Reda and myself. Section 8 of the bill, as drafted, does not permit this use, as it only authorizes it for administrative purposes. While taking into account the opinion of the Constitutional Council, the amendment is intended to allow the use of drones on an experimental basis, limited in time, for urban rodeo offences only, and with the authorization of the competent authority. Such a measure would also make it possible to judge the effectiveness of such arrangements. It is well known that drones suffer from some technical limitations, particularly in terms of the range and resolution of images.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u152	Amendment No 184 by Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard is being defended. What is the committee's opinion on these amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u153	I will of course give the same answer to Mrs Ménard and Mrs Pouzyreff: believe that I am committed, in other areas, to include in the law more rights to experimentation. With regard to the text before us, however, I believe that we should remain with what I mentioned earlier. The philosophy, as Mrs Ménard pointed out, is the same. Therefore, my opinion remains the same. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u154	I call Mr Pacôme Rupin to support Amendment No. 277.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u155	This is a fallback amendment – because, as I indicated earlier, I am opposed to the use of drones. It seems to me that it would be less intrusive and worrying for our fellow citizens than drones, when used by law enforcement, are neither visible nor perceptible by those residing or circulating within the scope of use: it would be a lesser evil.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u156	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, That would be even worse!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u157	This would allow law enforcement to do their job without the tool being intrusive for citizens who live or travel within the monitored perimeters.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u158	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u159	Definitely, we will not agree on these issues. I express an unfavorable opinion, because your proposal seems to me to be contrary to what is already proposed by Article L. 242-3 of the Code of Internal Security,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u160	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u161	... which lays down, in accordance with the request of the Constitutional Council, the principle of informing the public about the implementation of such image capture tools.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u162	It's not incompatible!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u163	In addition to the operational difficulties created by the adoption of your amendment, I therefore believe that it would weaken the whole system.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u164	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u165	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u166	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u167	The issue of public information is interesting. The decision of the Constitutional Council on the Act of 25 May 2021 does not say anything about this, since it did not have to examine these grievances in order to rule on the censorship of the article concerned. There is therefore no relevant matter in this case. However, we had raised this point because, in the previous drafting of the text, it was intended that, as a matter of principle, except in the fight against terrorism, any use of a drone would be made public on an accessible communication medium – for example the website of the Ministry of the Interior – where citizens could have known that such a drone had flown at such a place, such a day and at such an hour. You have removed all of this, and you only anticipate that the request for the use of the drone will have to specify, "if applicable, how the public will be informed": the information will have to be provided, but without any guarantee or precision. So pretend that the mechanism you are presenting today is more protective, frankly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u168	Mr Pacôme Rupin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u169	Mr rapporteur, we can very well inform citizens that their neighbourhood is being monitored and ensure that the use of the monitoring tool is neither visible nor perceptible: both are not incompatible. The drones still cause an embarrassment: they make noise, occupy airspace, the citizens wonder why they are there. I do not think we were talking about the same subject: the amendment is aimed at the nuisance caused by drones in airspace, not at informing the public.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u170	Mrs Albane Gaillot has the floor to support Amendment No. 84.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u171	Presented by my colleague Paula Forteza, it aims to provide an additional guarantee as to the use of drones by prohibiting it in private spaces. The article, as drafted, excludes their use only for the interior of homes. However, the concept of private space is broader, since it also encompasses the exterior spaces or the passenger compartments of vehicles. The amendment is therefore intended to clarify that the use of drones is not only prohibited for the interior of homes, but also for the exterior areas of private property and the passenger compartments of vehicles.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u172	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 42.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u173	This is to supplement article 8, paragraph 24. If I ask for that clarification, it is because I tabled amendments in committee and then in committee, which were declared inadmissible and which were intended to ensure that drones could be used by the municipal police and not only by the national police and the gendarmerie. As video protection devices are most often installed by municipalities, it is traditionally the municipal police – in connection with the national police or the gendarmerie, of course – who view the images alongside a judicial police officer. The use of drones by the municipal police would therefore be useful, not only against urban rodeos, but also, as I have already had the opportunity to stress, in some small communes – some of which are located in my constituency – to combat cabanization by identifying areas that are difficult to reach and land that accommodate constructions or mobile recreational dwellings hidden by the owners. It would also protect people living in remote locations located in the Red Zone of the Flood Risk Prevention Plan (RPIP), who are directly affected by stream overflows during heavy rainfall. These tasks are clearly more the responsibility of the municipal police than of the national police, who have other tasks to perform. The use of drones or aircraft in this framework by municipal police could therefore be very useful. The municipal police officer who alerted me on these issues explained to me, for example, that 62 per cent of his municipality's territory is in flood zone and remains inaccessible by land in the event of flooding.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u174	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u175	It seems to me that Mrs Ménard was not defending Amendment No 42, but subsequent amendments. Disadvantaged opinion, however.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u176	Mrs Albane Gaillot has the floor to support Amendment No. 79.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u177	Presented by my colleague Paula Forteza, this is an appeal amendment, aimed at avoiding a massive use of drones, to which we are opposed. We wish to provide an additional guarantee by requiring authorization from the public prosecutor before any use of a drone by the police and gendarmerie forces.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u178	Mrs Albane Gaillot has the floor to support Amendment No. 394.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u179	In the continuity of the additional guarantees to be provided to govern the use of drones, this amendment, proposed by the National Bar Council, aims to enable the representative of the State which has issued the authorisation to use drones to terminate it before the maximum period of three months. It is necessary for the representative of the State to exercise control over such authorization.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u180	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u181	Let's not fall into excess. By parallelism of forms, the prefectural authority may decide to withdraw an authorisation which it itself has issued, provided that it considers that such authorisation is no longer justified in the light of the criteria laid down by law. Let's at least give him that chance. Request for withdrawal or, failing that, unfavorable notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u182	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 44.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u183	It is intended to allow the renewal of the right to use airborne devices for a period of 24 hours, subject to the express authorisation of the competent authority. Mr Minister, I had received in committee elements of the rapporteur's reply concerning the use of drones by the municipal police. On the other hand, having not heard your opinion on this issue, I would like to know it. Is it possible in the coming years or do you consider, as a matter of principle, that this use should be reserved for the national police and gendarmerie?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u184	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u185	In the context of the emergency derogation procedure, there is no need to provide for the renewal of an authorisation for use beyond 24 hours because, then, we would no longer be in a context of urgency, which justified the use of a derogation procedure. Where appropriate, the requesting service may fully apply to the Prefect under the traditional procedure provided for in paragraphs 25 et seq. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u186	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u187	I am not against the use of video protection and drones by the municipal police. However, as always, this issue must be dealt with in a way that is proportionate to its purpose. As with the national police or the gendarmerie, the monitoring of a specific event or of a particularly criminogenic location could be tested, with specific authorizations. I'm not against it, I repeat. The work currently being done here and in the Senate, as well as with the Council of State, leaves room for this possibility. Anyway, you know the current situation. Communities are already flying drones, not to ensure safety, but in event operations or urban projects, for example. The use of drones by communities is therefore not impossible in absolute terms, but it is necessary to know the purpose of the drones. In addition, municipal officials should be subject to the same type of regime as the national police or the gendarmerie, and should therefore explain why they use this means, which would be attackable in particular.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u188	On Article 8, I am seized by the groups La République en marche and Socialistes et affiliés of a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Amendments Nos 82 by Mrs Albane Gaillot and 45 by Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard are being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u189	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 47.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u190	The current article L. 242-6 of the Code of Internal Security provides that "professional and volunteer firefighters in the fire and rescue services, public service personnel and members of units permanently engaged in civil security missions or members of accredited civil security associations within the meaning of article L. 725-1" may use drones only in two cases: prevention of natural or technological hazards and relief to persons and firefighting. The aim of this amendment is to add a third condition: the prevention of attacks on the safety of persons and property. As I explained in committee, it is a matter of enhancing safety, particularly for firefighters, and thus enriching the plan to prevent and combat attacks against firefighters set up in the summer of 2020. Once again, this proposal responds to a concern for efficiency. As you know, firefighters use drones very efficiently to fight fires. Perhaps you have already had the opportunity to attend this type of operation, which is truly spectacular. Thanks to drones, they can detect areas in which a fire covers but which are not necessarily visible to the naked eye. So it's very useful to them. It also happens – I am also talking about it with knowledge – that the firefighters no longer want to intervene alone in difficult neighbourhoods, as they are said to be modestly today, because they rightly fear falling into guets-apens. This type of situation occurs more and more regularly, and they only intervene in these neighbourhoods when they are accompanied by the police, whether national or municipal. However, the prior dispatch of a drone would make it possible to verify that, in a way, the field is free, that they are not in danger, that they are not in danger of falling into a hangout, that, for example, the garbage fire for which they had been called is not just a pretext found by a gang of thugs to attack them at a later date. As a result of the use of drones, they would no longer need to wait for the security forces and would, of course, carry out their civil protection missions more effectively, since they themselves would be protected.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u191	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u192	Your amendment is aimed at a purpose which concerns the police and gendarmerie services in the framework of their administrative police missions: this is explicitly provided for in Article 8, paragraph 17. On the other hand, this aim is inoperative with regard to the use of cameras on board by civil security, which must remain limited by consistency with the aims already laid down in Article L. 242-6, which, I would point out, emanates from the proposal for a law on global security and was found to be in conformity by the Constitutional Council. However, it explicitly provides for two purposes: prevention of natural or technological risks and assistance to people and the fight against fire. We wish to remain within the framework of the law that has already been adopted and to maintain the overall consistency of the article. I therefore ask for withdrawal and will, failing that, issue an unfavorable opinion, even if I hear your arguments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u193	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u194	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u195	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u196	Mr rapporteur, you are replying to me that you wish to remain within the existing framework. That's not an argument. Changes should be accepted if the text can be improved. It does not seem to me totally irrational or irresponsible to want to strengthen the safety of firefighters by allowing them to use drones in operations in difficult neighbourhoods, to prevent them from being victims of guets, false alarms or attacks in good standing. I would therefore have liked a different answer than that of expressing an unfavourable opinion on my amendment only because it is absolutely necessary to remain within the framework already provided for.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u197	I put Rule 8 to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u198	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 28 Number of votes cast 28 Absolute majority 15 For adoption 23 Against 5
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u199	Mrs Natalia Pouzyreff has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u200	Article 9 opens the possibility for law enforcement agencies to use cameras on board their vehicles in a secure legal framework. This provision was very much expected by the national police and gendarmerie forces as it allows them to have a broader view of the operational situation in which they are engaged. The possibility of seeing the movements around them is also a guarantee of safety. The capture of images is also a means of gathering evidence to identify the perpetrators of crimes. Finally, on-board cameras, by keeping a certain distance of security, can be an alternative to the prosecution of perpetrators. That is why the use of on-board cameras was one of the recommendations of the assessment mission that my colleague Robin Reda and I conducted. I am also pleased that this measure joins those announced by the President of the Republic on 14 September during the Beauvau de la sécurité and which attests to the desire to equip our police vehicles with cameras by 2023.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u201	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 151 and 227, to delete Article 9. I call Mr Lecoq to support Amendment No. 151.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u202	As was the case with the previous article, we oppose the adoption of Article 9 on embedded cameras. The new regime allows the national police and gendarmerie services, as well as civil security, to film and record their interventions "when an incident occurs or is likely to occur, having regard to the circumstances or behaviour of the persons concerned". These cameras may be used in any type of vehicle as part of missions to prevent breaches of public order and to protect persons and property. The objective is to ensure the safety of the interventions of national police officers, gendarmes, firefighters, State and military personnel in units permanently engaged in civil security missions. We doubt the deterrent effect of this measure – because that is still its objective. As with drones, the Government intends to take into account the criticisms made by the Constitutional Council by providing a set of forgotten guarantees. Although a few have been added, these are not enough to reassure us of the risk of intrusion into the privacy of the individuals represented by such a device. Records containing personal data will be kept for a maximum of seven days, no one will be able to access them except for the purposes of an alert to the judicial authority – the only exception allowed. However, we strongly question the effectiveness of on-board cameras in prevention and deterrence. Again, we believe that human means – we insist on this word – are important and that surveillance cameras and other robots, whatever they may be, cannot replace them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u203	I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 227.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u204	Firstly, we oppose in principle this type of device because, in the current state of scientific research, especially abroad – there is almost no such thing in France – the usefulness of on-board cameras, nor, moreover, of telegraphs, is proven. As far as video surveillance is concerned, research even shows that the balance sheet of the cost-benefit analysis – taking into account the budgetary cost involved – is rather negative. Secondly, the majority tells us that it is coming back to the burden because, following the censorship of the Constitutional Council and the opinion of the Council of State, it is trying to provide guarantees. What is quite extraordinary, however, is that all guarantees are immediately accompanied by a "except". For example, the on-board camera must be marked with a visible signal indicating that it is potentially filmed, unless, for example, it is an ordinaryized police vehicle. We understand the logic, but this precision cancels the guarantee. We cannot say that there is a guarantee when there will be no guarantee, especially for ordinaryised vehicles. With these exceptions ginned throughout the text, all – false, therefore – guarantees explode one after the other, according to the circumstances, depending on what is happening on the ground. I ask both colleagues and the minister to realize that they are facing new censorship. Indeed, the demonstration will be made that, when the text is applied, the guarantees will disappear and will never reappear. That is why we are calling for the deletion of this article. I will conclude by pointing out that if, a priori, in your mind, the on-board cameras are intended to film not the interior of the passenger compartment but the exterior, the possibility of filming the interior could, however, also have been a problem.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u205	What is the committee's opinion on these amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u206	These amendments are intended to delete Article 9, which governs the implementation by the security forces of image capture devices installed in their vehicles or boats during their interventions. However, as with articles 7 and 8, this is a useful article in order to establish a legal framework for the use of so-called embedded cameras, following the Constitutional Council's censure of the legal provisions for comprehensive security. The latter had considered last May that the various purposes of administrative police, judicial police and civil security for which these cameras could be used were extremely broad. In addition, the Committee noted that their use was insufficiently framed as there was no provision for the maximum duration of registration. Finally, the Committee had considered that the manner of informing the public was also inadequate, based only on the display of a simple signpost on the vehicles concerned. Article 9 seems to meet all the requirements raised by the Constitutional Council, drawing in particular on the rules applicable to pedonic cameras. Choosing this model is a change of philosophy from the law for global security. Only one purpose is now possible: to ensure the safety of agents in the performance of their duties to prevent breaches of public order. We can agree on that. Indeed, we had assigned this objective to the pedestrian cameras. Today, however, we know how much the security forces appreciate this mechanism that secures their patrols and responds to the need that had been identified: to pacify relations with our fellow citizens in the framework of control operations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u207	The aim here is the same: to ensure the safety of the security forces in the exercise of their task of preventing breaches of public order, the information of the public being guaranteed by the setting up of a specific audible or visual signal indicating whether the camera records. I would add that the same rules will apply as for airborne cameras, in terms of the shelf life, also limited to seven days, and the collection of images of the interior of homes and their entry. Finally, on the initiative of our colleague Sacha Houlié, I confirm at the sitting that the committee also prohibited any interconnection of the recordings thus made with other processing of personal data – we then referred to facial recognition technologies. For all these reasons, which reflect the balance of the arrangements, I express on behalf of the Committee an unfavorable opinion on these deletion amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u208	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u209	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u210	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u211	We do not have any report, any little scientific evaluation, any figures and details that allow us to know if what you're saying is true. Your only arguments are feelings. I'm not saying that the feelings of police officers and gendarmes who are using pediment cameras today are not important, this feeling that allows you to propose the extension of the device to on-board cameras because everyone would find it cool: but I'll start by reminding them that this is not my case, so not everyone thinks so. I also have testimonies from police officers, as well as prison staff – because the cameras can now be used in disciplinary quarters – which confirm what I have read in foreign studies: the balance sheet is pretty bad because, if there are people that the triggering of the video will indeed appease, there are others for whom it will be a cause of escalation or overbidding, which will increase the level of tension and cause a situation of conflict with the person we are supposed to manage. I wish I could tell you that you are right in fact and that it is only an opposition to the great principles on my part, but, including from a pragmatic point of view – that way of looking at the things you appreciate so much – you have no rational argument to make. Once again, I note that the guarantees presented are not. Of course, there will now be a signpost, but with the possibility of not using it. Similarly, the use of the camera is supposed to last only the time of the intervention, but there is no definition of what an intervention is. There are, I am sorry to tell you, Mr rapporteur, a lot of legal slippers, which lead to the absence of real guarantees.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u212	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 51.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u213	Paragraph 8, which inserts an article L. 243-3 into the Internal Security Code, provides that "when the security of officers is threatened, images captured and recorded by on-board cameras may be transmitted in real time to the command post". I propose to make this faculty an obligation. It is a matter of common sense, it seems to me, since the security of the agents is precisely threatened. I would like to take this opportunity to go back to my amendment No 48, which has been declared inadmissible. It was intended to allow the municipal police to carry out a recording of their interventions by means of on-board cameras, because I do not see why they would be deprived of this opportunity when it is granted to national police officers, customs officers, gendarmes, firefighters and State service personnel and military personnel in units permanently engaged in civil security missions. Municipal police officers could legitimately be added to the list. You are well aware, Mr President-in-Office, that this would also be a means of securing their interventions, and that, of course, it would also reassure the public, who would know that these interventions are being filmed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u214	I have before me an amendment No 360, as corrected, amending the additional article after Article 9. The rapporteur, Mr Jean-Michel Mis, has the floor to support him.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u215	I have indeed wished to take up this amendment tabled by Mrs Park and Mr Vuilletet, on which the committee had delivered a favourable opinion, because it is in line with the strengthening of the rules on the punishment of offences in the event of a lack of knowledge of the provisions governing the prohibition of aerial shooting. It clarifies the legal framework proposed by the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u216	Mr Eric Diard has the floor to support Amendment No. 159.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u217	This amendment proposes to delete paragraph 12 to allow the prefect to limit the prohibition on the possession of weapons to only certain categories. Indeed, article L. 312-3 of the Code of Internal Security is of a particularly broad scope, which can be understood in view of the need for the protection of society. However, it is appropriate to allow the administrative authority to take decisions on a case-by-case basis, depending on the offence committed and the category of weapons, in particular in respect of category C demilitarized weapons, which are non-lethal and are held for collection purposes only, since they do not represent, unlike the others, any danger.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u218	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u219	Mr Diard, I shall give an unfavourable opinion because the point of this paragraph is precisely to ensure uniform application of the prohibitions on the possession of weapons throughout the country, in the interests of coherence at the national level. Although I understand the reasons for this, maintaining the possibility for the Prefect to limit this ban to only certain categories of weapons seems to me to be contrary to the objective sought and even to the philosophy of the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u220	Mr Eric Diard has the floor to support Amendment No. 160.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u221	This second amendment to article 10 is intended to maintain the adversarial procedure in the context of decisions prohibiting the acquisition and, above all, possession of weapons pursuant to articles L. 312-3 and L.312-3-2 of the Code of Internal Security. It must be maintained because it allows the administrative authority to take its decisions in a fair manner, that is, according to the offence committed and the category of weapons concerned, in particular, in respect of category C demilitarized weapons, which are not lethal and which are held for collection purposes only.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u222	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u223	In my view, my colleague, there is no reason to maintain an adversarial procedure prior to the surrender of those weapons decided by the prefectural authority, provided that the prohibition of acquisition and detention falls within the scope of a criminal conviction or a protection order. In addition to this procedure being a superfluous factor of rigidity in the cases referred to, the prefectural authority is then in a situation of bound competence, which means that it has no room for manoeuvre as to the decision it is required to take. That is why I express an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u224	I have before me a series of amendments to the supplementary article after Article 10. I suggest that you defend them together, Mr. Breton, since you are the author.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u225	If you will allow me, Mr President, I will first defend the first, then the next two, Nos 350 and 351, before coming to the last, Amendment No 352. I prefer to do so because, even if they all concern the issue of collections of weapons and old materials, they deal with different subjects and come from proposals developed in connection with associations of collectors.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u226	We therefore come to Amendment No 353.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u227	He proposed that minors from the age of 16 could become collectors because it would align the age requirement with that of other practices: I am thinking in particular of hunting and sport shooting. It would indeed be contradictory, if not paradoxical, to allow them both and not the other, knowing that the collection of weapons is of course very framed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u228	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u229	As I said to Mr Breton in committee, the opinion will be against these four amendments, especially since the rules on this matter seem to me to be within the regulatory power. I would remind you that the collection of weapons has only been open to majors since the creation of the collector's status.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u230	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u231	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u232	Mr Xavier Breton has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u233	The answer of saying that nothing is changed because it has always been done in this way is absolutely not satisfactory, and I am surprised that the majority is content with it. I recalled the age conditions for the exercise of objectively more risky practices, such as hunting or even sporting shooting and, for the collections, whose legal regime is very supervised and secure, you say no. I expected an argument from you.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u234	Mr Xavier Breton has the floor in support of Amendments Nos 350 and 351 which can be put together.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u235	They are intended to provide for the possibility for collectors to apply for authorization to acquire and detain from the prefecture for weapons of category A or B of a heritage nature, i.e. for weapons of a model prior to 1 January 1946. Thus, weapons of a model prior to 1 January 1900 would be free of acquisition and possession, those of a model between 1900 and 1946 subject to prior authorization for collectors holding the collector's card, and those of a model after 1946 would remain inaccessible to them. The collector's card would also allow the acquisition and possession of certain specimens of active ammunition, as well as any type of neutralized ammunition and ammunition or inert devices for a single cultural purpose under the collection, excluding ammunition intended for any use.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u236	Mr Xavier Breton has the floor to support Amendment No. 352.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u237	The purpose of this amendment is to allow the carrying of weapons held under the collector's card, in the exclusive context of historical reconstructions or other cultural commemorations. This provision, Mr rapporteur, falls within the regulatory field, but the aim is to include it in the law so that there is no possible dispute.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u238	Mrs Emmanuelle Anthoine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u239	The purpose of this article is to require prior authorisation for access to training in the trades of armory and armaments; the issuance of such authorisation would be preceded by an administrative investigation aimed at excluding persons presenting behaviour at risk to public order and safety. It is necessary to ensure prior to their entry into training that applicants are not included in the national register of persons prohibited from acquiring and possessing arms (FINIADA). In the face of the violence in our society, it is imperative to better control the flow of arms in our country. In this regard, the arsenals discovered during police seizures are of concern to us as they reveal the large volume of weapons in circulation in our country. Better control of access to training in the armory and arms trades therefore appears to be a measure of common sense in the face of the challenges posed by access to arms.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u240	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No 359.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u241	I would simply point out that the last amendments I have tabled, including this one, are either editorial or co-ordinated. Finally, I will take this opportunity to greet the students and teachers of the Benoît Fourneyron vocational high school in Saint-Étienne – once it is not customary; Indeed, my constituency has the chance to welcome one of the most beautiful high schools in the trades of the Armoury of France.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u242	Amendments Nos 358 and 357 by the rapporteur are drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u243	Amendments Nos 356 and 355 as corrected by the rapporteur are coordination amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u244	Amendment No 366 of the rapporteur's overall wording is a co-ordination amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u245	I have before me two amendments, Nos 233 and 386, to delete Article 17. Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor to support Amendment No. 233.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u246	This article allows sworn private guards to observe, by way of a report, certain traffic and road safety police violations within the limits of the property they have in their custody. We are opposed to this gradual extension of the powers of enforcement of private law: not being public servants, their functions and authorizations should not be extended. In the current state of law, these persons must inform the nearest judicial police officers when they find an offence. Again, rather than building capacity and responding to needs, this article is a sign of a policy that seeks to replace public service with private service, which we rise against. That is why we believe that article 17 should be deleted.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u247	I call Mrs Lamia El Aaraje to support Amendment No. 386.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u248	Mr President, if I may, I will also defend Amendment No 328 as corrected, which is in the same spirit. As my colleague Danièle Obono pointed out, we are presenting an amendment to delete for a very simple reason. We had the opportunity to discuss it: the police are facing a staffing problem. Even if you announce their increase, the numbers do not correspond to the real needs of the population. Nor can they increase the means that would be needed to move towards more community policing and to strengthen ties with citizens. We believe that the road police should remain an activity of protection and control exercised by our law enforcement agencies; It must not be delegated. In the event that the article is not deleted, the rectified withdrawal amendment No. 328 requires a report that would clarify the powers of sworn guards who will be assigned control powers in the field of road police, whereas these officers are neither police nor gendarmes nor customs officers. Underlyingly, there is a form of rampant privatization of security activities; parliamentarians and citizens need to be able to see more clearly. Parliamentarians, particularly in the framework of their supervisory powers, must be vigilant.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u249	Mr Jean-François Eliaou, rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, gave the opinion of the Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u250	The opinion is unfavourable. However, I would like to clarify the benefits to be expected from this provision. First, the intervention of sworn private guards will alleviate the work of the national gendarmerie and municipal and national police; It's an important element. In addition, the procedure for finding infringements will be faster and simpler. The owners of publicly available land – that's what this is all about – will be able to directly solicit the sworn private guards they have commissioned to make the findings. Finally, one point that seems very important to me: the presence of sworn guards at the sites should allow the provisions of the road code to be more respected by drivers; That's the goal. Although there are enough municipal and national police officers and gendarmes, there are public order disturbances because some drivers sometimes do a little bit of anything. I believe that these proposals will solve the problem. Last point which deserves to be stressed, the sworn guards will not be able to see all the violations of the road code. A list will be defined by decree, so it is a very limited extension of their prerogatives. For all these reasons, the opinion is unfavourable. To add an item...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u251	About the report!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u252	In addition to the fact that I am in principle opposed to requests for reports, I would point out that very recent work has already been done on the subject by the Council of State. The study carried out at the request of the Prime Minister on the powers of inquiry of the administration, given last July, will answer your questions, my dear colleague; I invite you to refer to it. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u253	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Anthoine to support Amendment No. 162.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u254	Private guards can participate usefully in the security continuum; This is particularly the case with regard to traffic and road safety. That is why my colleague Philippe Gosselin's amendment seeks to ensure that special guards are given the power – obviously limited to the limits of the land they have in their custody – to observe by minutes certain traffic and road safety police violations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u255	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u256	Your amendment goes in the same direction as Article 17, but differs from it by a very important shade: it removes the reservation entered in it with regard to the sworn private guards already entitled to ascertain by minutes certain offences under Article L. 116-2 of the Road Traffic Code. As you know, they are engineers and public works drivers of the state who primarily verbalise offences in the public road domain. These officers are already entitled to observe certain traffic offences, but within the limits laid down by Article R. 130-5 of this Code, which requires that the offence be related to an offence against the police of the conservation of the public road domain, which is totally different. It is not envisaged that these agents, whose profession is very specific and which I have just mentioned, will be able to observe violations of the road code without conditions; It is neither useful nor desirable. Request for withdrawal; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u257	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u258	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u259	Mrs Emmanuelle Anthoine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u260	In practice, it is well known that these special guards do not use this connection: it is very complex to demonstrate or materialize in the light of the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure and the three mandatory elements of the crime report, including the moral element.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u261	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Anthoine to support Amendment No. 165.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u262	This amendment would simplify the procedures for private guards in the public road domain. Moreover, and that is interesting, it would allow private structures that are open to road traffic and which include car parks to enforce the road code – I am thinking in particular of places reserved for people with reduced mobility.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u263	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 60 and 309. Mrs Aude Bono-Vandorme has the floor to support Amendment No. 60.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u264	The purpose of this amendment is to enable development agents of the departmental federations of hunters to record certain traffic and road safety police offences. It has been prepared in connection with community leaders.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u265	Amendment No 309 by Mr Eric Ciotti is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u266	These amendments are intended to enable the development agents of the departmental federations of commissioned and sworn hunters to observe certain violations of the road code, insofar as they relate to road safety and traffic. In practice, they are already satisfied: the agents you are talking about are individual sworn guards and are therefore affected by clause 17 of the bill. Request for withdrawal; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u267	Mr Gosselin's amendments Nos 166, 161, 164 and 163 are being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u268	Mrs Emmanuelle Anthoine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u269	I wish to return to the scourge of urban rodeos, against which it is necessary to fight more effectively. These practices are harmful to local residents and entire neighbourhoods of our cities are rendered invivable because of these incivilities. Worse still, the lives of our fellow citizens are threatened by these dangerous behaviors. In the face of these risky behaviours, the law must be firm and dissuasive. The provisions of this article are interesting in this respect. There is a need to facilitate the identification of vehicles and to strengthen the reporting obligations of vehicles to administrative authorities. Above all, I would like to welcome the reduction from 15 to 7 days in the time limit for the abandonment of a vehicle used in an urban rodeo left behind. The vehicle may be destroyed as soon as it has been discovered that it has been abandoned. In addition, vehicles used in urban rodeos for which registration or identification obligations have not been met by the owner at the time of impoundment may be considered abandoned as soon as they enter the impoundment and delivered to destruction. These measures are designed to combat urban rodeos even more effectively and will facilitate the work of our law enforcement agencies. We very much hope that they will be adopted.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u270	Mrs Natalia Pouzyreff has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u271	The fight against rodeos is the work of an entire mandate. Since 2017, members of the majority have been constantly gathering up the ground on the difficulties encountered by local elected officials and law enforcement officials in curbing this phenomenon. This scourge affects all our territories, urban and rural. Together with our colleagues Catherine Osson, Mireille Clapot, Naïma Moutchou, Yaël Braun-Pivet, Stéphane Testé, Thomas Rudigoz, Saïd Ahamada, Bruno Studer, Rémy Rebeyrotte, Anissa Khedher, Yves Blein and Guillaume Gouffier-Cha, we have seen everywhere in France the growing exasperation of our fellow citizens. We welcome the progress made by Article 18, in particular those relating to non-restricted vehicles, i.e. non-approved vehicles. These advances will allow for better traceability, thanks to the integration of the identification and registration numbers of these vehicles. We also welcome the strengthening of the reporting requirements for unlicensed vehicles permitted by the "DICEM" and "declaration and identification file" and the facilitation of the rapid destruction of vehicles as a means of preventing recidivism. I welcome the improvements made to this article in committee, following the adoption of an amendment I had tabled to facilitate the pronouncement of vehicle confiscations that the owners have made available to third parties, allowing judges to rely on objective geographical and material criteria to assess their good faith. Finally, I would like to highlight the unique co-construction work carried out between parliamentarians and the departments of the Ministries of the Interior and Justice. It is through these common efforts that we will be able to draft laws adapted to the reality of the ground and to fight more effectively against such incivilities and criminal behaviour that seriously affect the lives of our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u272	Mrs Lamia El Aaraje has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u273	I would like to stress the quality of the work of our colleagues Robin Reda and Natalia Pouzyreff on urban rodeos, and the spirit of Article 18, which goes in the right direction.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u274	Rodeos are a scourge that affects the quality of life of many of our fellow citizens. We have all been arrested by local residents and elected officials, who are totally distraught, as well as by law enforcement officials who do not have the means to fight this scourge. If the text goes in the right direction, the Socialist and related group wanted to go further and open the possibility of using drones to fight against these rodeos. Law enforcement officials deplored their inability to engage in chase races, which are not desirable because they would endanger law enforcement officials, perpetrators and potential users of public space in the vicinity. The drones with on-board cameras, used in a judicial framework as I mentioned in our debates on article 8, would offer a step forward in identifying and prosecuting the perpetrators of these offences. On the other hand, like many residents, I want to express my regret about the motorized two-wheelers. These vehicles were to be subject to technical inspection and I would like to denounce the step backwards in this regard. This measure was very much expected by the inhabitants of the neighbourhoods concerned. This is certainly not the miracle solution against rodeos, but it would have provided a means of combating the nuisances caused by these vehicles which are not subject to any control, in particular with regard to pollution, noise and a number of offences of which their owners are often responsible. Our proposal has been found inadmissible and we regret this impediment to our right of amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u275	I call Mr Vatin to support Amendment No. 174.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u276	In view of the difficulties encountered in urban rodeo neighbourhoods, it appeared to us that the police – national or municipal – had the greatest difficulty in identifying the owners of unlicensed vehicles. Like what can be seen in Compiègne, it would be desirable for unapproved vehicles to be registered, without calling into question the prohibition on their movement on public roads. This would enable the owner to be identified and held accountable for the events that occur when the vehicle was transferred without any declaration in the prefecture to ensure traceability. On the other hand, we could imagine a system to certify transactions, validated by the administration.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u277	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u278	This amendment is satisfied. If it is not a registration as such, article L. 321-1-2 of the Road Traffic Code states: "Any owner [of a motorized vehicle] shall declare the vehicle to the administrative authority. An identification number shall be issued, which shall be engraved on a non-removable part of the vehicle. Each of these vehicles shall be fitted with a marked plate with the identification number issued. This plate can be removed as part of a sports practice. » Failure to register in the DICEM register is punishable by a fourth class violation. Unfavourable notice or request for withdrawal.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u279	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u280	The same opinion as the rapporteur, your amendment is satisfied. I take this opportunity to pay tribute to the parliamentarians who have worked hard on rodeos. This question was taken in arm-to-body during this quinquennium, it is complex, for several reasons. The vehicles concerned are not just quads or motorcycles, they can be cars used in very dangerous conditions for those driving them, but also for third parties. In addition to creating nuisances in urban areas, these people can injure or kill, an elderly person has also recently been victimized in Toulouse. This issue raised problems of seizure of vehicles, identification of perpetrators, prosecution, intervention, legal framework and protection of police officers and gendarmes who intervened, and who were often caught in court because they had dared to prosecute the wrongdoers. Your work, Mrs Pouzyreff, as well as that of your colleagues, has made it possible to settle this situation largely, although efforts must be stepped up on the ground. Rodeos had to be placed on the scale of sentences, assimilating them to a genuine refusal to comply. This bill continues this work. Seizure of vehicles is paramount. When I was mayor, this seizure was not systematic, whereas today more than 600 devices have been seized since the beginning of the year. This article, improved thanks to your work, will further perfect things. Some people now use non-owned vehicles or rental vehicles. It is important to be able to tackle those who thus circumvent the seizure measures you have desired. The destruction of devices following seizure is even more important to prevent recidivism. Regardless of the imposition of a fine, it is important to destroy the object of the offence: quads, motorcycles or cars can have a significant value, their destruction hurts those who use them much more than a possible suspended prison sentence. With regard to identification, video protection cameras provide assistance. The law for global security provides for the uploading of images of these cameras into the HLM bars. The most important thing is to seize these vehicles before or after the crime, and this crime is not easy to establish – I will return to the instructions given to the police and gendarmerie forces. Knowing that quads, motorcycles or cars used to commit these crimes are placed in the common areas allows them to be seized by the public prosecutor. Images of video protection, on the public road or in the buildings of social donors who will report the images in the supervision centres of the communes, will be available for consultation by the police. These measures are essential for identification work, both upstream and downstream. I hear a lot of nonsense about the work of the police and gendarmerie. The main role of the Minister of the Interior is to arrest the evildoers, under the authority of the judiciary, but also to protect the officials of the Republic who intervene in extremely difficult conditions. The responsibility of any head is to allow those under his authority to return in good physical condition – they are fathers and mothers like the others – by giving them legal protection instructions. You can't give any instructions to anyone. Moreover, a police intervention cannot result in disproportionate consequences, such as the death of a girl or an elderly person who would cross the street at the time of the prosecution. But neither the instructions nor the laws of the Republic prohibit the prosecution of persons who make rodeos in quads, motorcycles or cars. It is prohibited to put oneself in danger, and to carry out a disproportionate intervention if the person being prosecuted commits acts manifestly contrary to the road code and endangers others by rolling on the sidewalks or by taking countersense roundabouts. In my city of Tourcoing, the hard district in which there are most rodeos is next to a hospital, near the arrivals of the SAMU! Everyone understands that on this part of the road, the instruction given to the police is not to drive counter-sense firefighters or UAS who arrive in the hospital at any berzingu, as the singer would say. Moderation instructions are common sense instructions. It is not because we put an end to a hunt that we give up arresting the person. In the end, it is always the police that wins, provided they agree to apply all the means you have given us: video protection; use of technical and scientific police in the context of urban rodeos; seizure and confiscation; working with grey card files and identification files. I can assure you that it is not because police officers cannot always carry out the prosecution until the end – and they are probably a little frustrated, under difficult conditions – that in the end, the person being prosecuted is not arrested. And then the district chiefs of police and gendarmerie work daily with the public prosecutor to spot motorcycles, quads and cars. The job of the Minister of the Interior is not to give in to the desire to pursue absolutely – even if that is not what you have said, I often hear the opposite, and sometimes on the part of the staff – because it endangers people and can lead to drama. A police intervention must not end in the death of a person – whether or not the person is concerned by the larceny! Above all, I want to stress how much progress we have made. Mrs Pouzyreff, in one year, thanks to the law strengthening the fight against urban rodeos of which you have been rapporteur, we have multiplied by ten the number of convictions for these practices. Of course, there are still some improvements to be made. Special work needs to be done for border areas, which are clearly marked by the fact that they are particularly affected, with offenders willingly crossing them. For the inter-municipal borders, the creation of CSU – urban security centres – departmental, and the pooling of municipal police, provided for by law for comprehensive security preserving freedoms, will greatly help us – the law is already passed, promulgated, and the decrees are being drafted. Finally, work needs to be done on car rental agencies, motorcycles and quads, especially on certain vehicles coming from abroad – I see more and more Polish or Czech license plates, which is worrying. I will travel to Poland in a few days; It will be an opportunity to improve police cooperation in the common market, which unfortunately has its shortcomings, as it allows the rental of less well-identified foreign vehicles. Motocrosses or quads are welcome in the Republic, but only in areas intended to accommodate them and not on the public road. It must be remembered with great severity to those who profit from the rental of these vehicles, as we did in the past for the arms sellers, by meaning to them – forgiveness of this evidence – that these cannot be used in France under certain conditions, and certainly not on the public road. In fact, the vehicles referred to here have nothing to do with free movement, as provided for in the road code. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] I thank you, therefore, for this collective work – in particular you, Mrs Pouzyreff, because your various work, especially on the enforcement of the law, has made it possible to challenge – as they say in bad French – the police and gendarmerie services. You can also be proud of your work on the law strengthening the fight against motorised rodeos – as well as all of you here, because it has been widely voted. This law is applied; It makes it possible to gain in tranquillity and to better condemn people who, unfortunately, use these devices for something other than what is planned.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u281	On Article 18, I am seized by the groups La République en marche and Socialistes et affiliés of a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr. Pierre Vatin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u282	Minister, I fully agree with you on the need to remain measured in the pursuit races and to protect our fellow citizens. My amendment dealt with the registration of these vehicles, as it would allow the identification of owners and their accountability – the declared owner, in the event that he no longer has possession of the vehicle and no new owner would be identified, would remain responsible. Indeed, the reporting system that applies to current transactions does not work at all. In the absence of a registration, disposals are treated with ease, not to mention cases where the seized vehicles no longer have an identification number. Registration would also empower non-members of sports associations to inform them that such vehicles are not authorised on the public highway. There are more frequent encounters than we think of bona fide buyers who do not wonder about this point: for them, since these vehicles are driving, they can go on the public road. I am thinking in particular of the case of a teenager who used an unlicensed vehicle, offered by his parents for passing his exams.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u283	Mrs Natalia Pouzyreff has the floor in support of Amendments Nos 401, 404 and 402, which can be put together.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u284	In order to strengthen the fight against motorised rodeos, I propose, by Amendment No 401, to prohibit the payment of cash in the purchase of vehicles not subject to approval, in particular motocross vehicles, which are mostly used for rodeos. In fact, this money often comes from traffic in our cities and suburbs. This is an appeal amendment, because I understand the imperative of free trade. I share the wish, expressed earlier by the minister, that a reflection be opened on the accountability of the renters and distributors of these motorized two-wheelers. Article 18 aims to promote the rapid destruction of vehicles used for rodeos – it will increase the period before destruction from 15 to 7 days after the impoundment – and the immediate destruction of vehicles not subject to approval which have not been the subject of the administrative declarations prescribed in the DICEM file – of the declaration and identification of certain motor vehicles. In order to further strengthen these measures, it seems to me interesting to offer the municipal polices direct and free access to the DICEM, as well as the portability of this file; It would be a guarantee of efficiency for the work of the police, both the municipal and the national police. This is the subject of Amendment No 402. Finally, Amendment No 404 aims to highlight the work of the interdepartmental delegation to road safety on a new version of the DICEM...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u285	Thank you, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u286	... which will be more automated, with more reliable data,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u287	Thank you.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u288	...and will make it possible to better detect rodeo offences. Do you have any additional information on this point?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u289	What is the committee's opinion on these amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u290	With regard to Amendment No 401, we have already discussed in committee the prohibition of payment in cash when selling unapproved vehicles. This would constitute an obstacle to the freedom of trade disproportionate to the objective pursued. In addition, I would point out that the amount of cash payments by an individual to a professional is already limited by thresholds, in our country: it cannot exceed 1000 euros. As for cash payments between individuals – for the purchase of a car or a table, for example – if their amount is not limited, a writing is required, beyond 1500 euros, to prove the payment. Finally, professionals have an obligation to report to TRACFIN any sums or transactions that it knows, suspects or assumes are of mischievous origin. These payments are therefore adequately regulated by law. And then, as we said in committee, establishing a legal limit will not prevent certain transactions from being carried out in the dark, in the darknet or in other money-based or non-money-based trading systems. Unfavorable opinion. As for Amendments Nos 404 and 402, they are of appeal. I would therefore ask you to withdraw it, in the light of the explanations provided by the Government; If not, the opinion will be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u291	On amendment No 319, I have a request from the Socialist and Related Group for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u292	On the substance of Amendment No 401, I do not agree with the rapporteur. However, on the form, you forget the necessary modification of the monetary and financial code. In addition, as the rapporteur has pointed out, ceilings are already in place. Finally, special provisions cannot be reserved for a single type of trade or purchase. I therefore ask you to withdraw the amendment, to rework it. We all know about means of payment, such as prepaid cards, cryptocurrency – and not just on the darknet – that allow purchases to be anonymized. The general elimination of cash would therefore not settle everything and would not ensure an end to the impunity enjoyed by illicit businesses. However, I remain convinced that the complex question deserves to be asked, and I ask myself, not as a member of the Government of the Republic, but as a committed citizen – as any man or woman in politics is – because such a measure would put an end to a very large number of traffickings, or at least to certain occupations in the public domain, particularly through drug deals – even though there will always be drug users and networks that provide them. The same applies to tax fraud – to get out of the domain that I am a minister of the interior and back to my previous loves. Yes, there will always be a hijacked way of using child prostitution, getting weapons, drugs – or motocross! ; The ban on cash would not remove the larcenies. However, it would prevent them for the sake of the future, by making illicit market access more difficult. In addition, it would make it possible to rely on traces in prosecutions and to eliminate nuisances in a large part of the public domain, a very important point. For example, whether it is tax or social fraud, corruption or insecurity – including drug-related fraud – the issue deserves to be studied, because it is not bad. This is a social debate, which will be discussed in the coming years, without a doubt. With regard to Amendment No 402, the idea of allowing municipal police officers access to the DICEM is very good; That is why we are working on it. However, the measure falls within the regulatory area – which I am jealously protecting, like any member of the Government, because it is our work – and not the legislative area; But finally, your amendment might have been a call. In any case, know that the measure will be taken in the coming weeks or months, with a DICEM recast.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u293	I call Mr Vatin to support Amendments Nos 175 and 173.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u294	They are in line with my previous amendment and relate to the following paragraphs relating to the identification of vehicles and the accountability of owners. I am not going to repeat what I said earlier, but it seems to me that this accountability is now particularly inadequate with regard to the original owner purchasing the vehicle. The professional seller is held responsible for information relating to the prohibition of traffic on the highway, not on the owner of the vehicle, who makes it apparent that he does not know.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u295	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u296	With regard to Amendment No 175, I give an unfavourable opinion for the same reasons as before. On the other hand, Amendment No 173 concerns another subject and poses two problems to me. Your proposal is as follows: If the owner is not the driver and he has not filed a complaint about the theft of a vehicle, he would be sentenced to half of the fine for motorized rodeo. On the one hand, the amendment seems to me to be satisfactory in practice, because if the owner is actually an accomplice to the offences committed by the driver within the meaning of the Penal Code, he is already liable, without having to specify it in this text. On the other hand, the Criminal Code provides – it is important in the matter of quantum of punishment – that the accomplice is punished for the offence as the perpetrator. Therefore, it does not seem appropriate to me to provide for a conviction of half the fine incurred by the driver, which would reduce the quantum. This would be – at the limit – counterproductive and incentive. For these two reasons, unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u297	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u298	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u299	Mr. Pierre Vatin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u300	Your comment is certainly very sensible, Mr rapporteur. It reminds me of the following fact: in terms of liability for the transfer of the vehicle, the administrative procedure must be carried out. The problem we know is that either the owner is an accomplice and we consider him to know what he was doing; It can be determined that he was not, but that he was negligent by not doing the steps. Every week, I receive people who have given up a vehicle in good faith, whether or not they are allowed to drive on the highway. They explain to me that they took the steps, but that they receive the fines because the new owner did not register the vehicle. It is clear that the declarative system does not work: all this problem will have to be reviewed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u301	I call Mrs Lamia El Aaraje to support Amendment No. 319.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u302	As I said in the discussion prior to Article 18 and as we had the opportunity to discuss it in committee, there is a form of global consensus on the intention of the Article, although potential discussions on form remain possible. This has been mentioned on several occasions by many colleagues and by you, Mr rapporteur and Mr Minister: in rodeos, chase races are dangerous, endangering third parties and the law enforcement agencies themselves. During the hearings, the latter reported that they were sometimes bothered, whether rodeos take place in urban or rural areas. When a quad sinks into a sinuous path, it is absolutely impossible for law enforcement to pursue it. For these reasons, it would be appropriate – it is a request from local elected officials with whom we have had the opportunity to discuss it – to allow law enforcement officers to use drones in a judicial framework.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u303	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u304	We are not going to go back to the discussion in committee. As you indicate, we are in the context of a judicial investigation; It's important to make that clear. I will let the minister speak on this, as there had been discussions following a request for a study by the Council of State. Request for withdrawal or unfavorable notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u305	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u306	I would like to reassure the honourable Member that we have raised a great deal earlier about the purpose of the manoeuvre – if I may say so. We have a disagreement of interpretation and we must use the time allocated to us between the two chambers to resolve it, since we have the same objective: to use drones for the monitoring of motorized rodeos within the legal framework requested by the Council of State and CNIL. We have asked the Council of State whether the Chancellery is right – we do not need text – or whether a text is necessary. As we are concerned about the risk of censorship by the Constitutional Council to write as correctly as possible a very important law, we propose not to adopt the amendment – this is not a refusal of principle – and to await the exact opinion of the Council of State, which will certainly secure the decision of the Constitutional Council; We shall return to it before the High Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u307	I put to the vote Amendment No 319.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u308	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 35 Number of votes cast 33 Absolute majority 17 For adoption 7 Against 26
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u309	I shall put to the vote Rule 18.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u310	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 35 Number of votes cast 32 Absolute majority 17 For adoption 30 Against 2
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u311	Amendment No 199 by Mr Yves Blein is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u312	I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 330.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u313	We had already tabled it at the time of the examination of the text which created a full infringement of motorized rodeos. We do not have the same appreciation of the objectives pursued by the creation of this kind of infringement. We were already thinking – we continue to think – that providing for a prison sentence, as with all other offences, is not connected with the objective pursued. However, we were in favour of the seizure of vehicles, their confiscation and the ensuing confiscation, in accordance with the application of criminal procedure. I don't have a problem with that. Young people who are riding motorcycles without helmets, it doesn't date back to 2021. Moreover, when we looked at the text I mentioned, some in the Chamber acknowledged that they had done, when they were young – like many others – what we find today unbearable and scandalous. Be careful not to overbid a subject like this. An interesting experience had been conducted in the 1980s in the Lille metropolis. The latter had opened a motorcycle circuit supervised by police officers; When people were arrested, the magistrates forced them to take a driving course with the police officers on the Lezennes circuit. At the very beginning of the legislature, the police officers were withdrawn and the circuit closed; There were demonstrations in front of the Lille police station to maintain him, because he had a usefulness, a pedagogical aim and prevention of recidivism. This allowed young people to say: "You can do wheeling or what you want with your bike on the circuit, but don't do it on the street, it's dangerous. » There, we are only in repression. At the time of the debate, you had been a little more timid on the subject. In many cases, the person is hunted for motorized rodeo because he cannot be apprehended for other facts, including drug trafficking; It was assumed at the time. If you're looking to get a person for this reason, do an investigation for stupefying traffic, not motorized rodeo! As we are confounding everything, we have tabled the amendment not to provide for a prison sentence for motorised rodeo, because this does not contribute to the objective of reducing these offences.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u314	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u315	The amendment provides for TIGs (work of general interest) rather than prison – I outline. One can understand this, for there have been experiments in this direction, as you have recalled; There might be more. But in the case of motorized rodeos, in addition to the noise, the dead and wounded. These practices can be dangerous for both the driver and the residents, who demand calm. [[Mr. Ugo Bernalicis made signs of denial]] This is a little dissuasive to me and I think that the TIGs are not sufficiently proportionate to the disorders induced by motorised rodeos. In addition, among the additional penalties that the judge may impose, there are public works, such as participation in the operation of a functional rehabilitation service where there are injured victims of motorized rodeos, whether drivers or pedestrians who were passing by and had nothing to do with history. The amendment to introduce TIGs rather than prison sentences seems disproportionate to the issue and to the risks posed by motorised rodeos. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u316	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u317	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u318	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u319	It is a bit annoying to let go, sometimes, to say that motorized rodeos can make victims – wounded or dead. They can, it's true, but when they do, the person is not prosecuted for motorized rodeo, they are prosecuted for manslaughter or wilfully; We're going through another quantum of sentence and another investigation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u320	Don't worry...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u321	So you can't use it as an argument to keep the one-year prison sentence for motorized rodeo. Yesterday, the minister considered apart from the drunk driver who did not refuse to comply. Let's sequence things, let's look at every crime for what it is. We drafted the amendment by providing for a penalty of work of general interest; I would have preferred an autonomous probation sentence, but it doesn't exist on the sentencing scale. When the time comes, we'll create it, don't worry. It is above all an appeal amendment to tell you that the prison sentence is not alpha and omega, especially in this area. You yourself said, Mr rapporteur, that you found it more interesting and useful to do compulsory internships in a particular hospital department.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u322	Oh, there!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u323	Finally, it would have been interesting to have a look at sentencing. In many cases, it is just the destruction of the vehicle and a fine, possibly an electronic bracelet – the end of the story. The educational virtue in preventing recidivism is somewhat limited.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u324	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendments Nos 57, 56, 58 and 59, which can be put together.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u325	All relate to urban rodeo and tend to tighten the penalties applicable to their perpetrators in order to make them more dissuasive and therefore more effective. With Amendment No 57, I propose that the penalties be increased when the individual conceals his or her face and when the device is not registered. No 56 is an amendment of withdrawal. Amendment No 58 refers to urban rodeo in dangerous places, such as the surroundings of schools, children's playgrounds, pedestrian areas and commercial spaces open to the public. Finally, Amendment No 59 seeks to allow the mayor or the territorially competent judicial police officer (OPJ) to have the equipment immobilized, impounded or removed from circulation and, if necessary, to destroy it. I know that, in the conclusions of their fact-finding mission, Mrs Pouzyreff and Mr Reda do not advocate aggravating the penalties involved.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u326	Among other things!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u327	In addition, you objected to me during the examination in committee, which could include the generalization of pedonic cameras to combat urban rodeos. However, this measure is insufficient; It does not rule out aggravating the penalties that are imposed on those who practice urban rodeos, especially when they endanger the lives of others, especially children, with full knowledge of the facts – I would point out that I propose to impose more harsh penalties on rodeo authors in the vicinity of schools or in playgrounds. The cases referred to in the four present amendments may constitute aggravating circumstances. Once again, residents who suffer similar nuisances every night, sometimes also by day, are exasperated. They want an end to the phenomenon, as well as to the impunity of the perpetrators. Minister, I have heard you announce that the neutralizations of rodeo authors and machines have been multiplied tenfold in a year, but there is still a lot of work to be done. Those responsible must be really punished. In this regard, the increase in penalties would not be a bad signal to send them, far from it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u328	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u329	You have already set out most of the arguments on which I will base my objections. I would like to mention the excellent work done by Mrs Pouzyreff and Mr Reda: they recommend not increasing the quantity of sentences, but strengthening other mechanisms. In addition to the pedestrian cameras that you mentioned, there is a whole series of measures: embedded cameras – as the bill provides –; encouraging the deployment of video protection; permission for municipal police officers to access the DICEM; the reduction of impounding periods, as provided for in Article 18. The text is an effective framework for the fight, without increasing the amount of punishment, because it is not necessarily a deterrent, as the report by our colleagues shows. The opinion is therefore unfavourable with regard to Amendments Nos 57, 56 and 58. Amendment No 59 is somewhat different in nature. The summary statement states that it tends to allow the OPJ and the mayor to immobilize, impound and destroy unregistered equipment. It applies to wrecked vehicles referred to in the second paragraph of Article L. 325-1 of the Road Traffic Code, i.e. vehicles "deprived of elements necessary for their normal use and insceptible for immediate repair as a result of damage or theft". You want to add vehicles that are not registered. We have had the debate in committee: whether or not the gear is registered does not matter. Where the conditions laid down in the paragraph are met, the vehicle may be immobilized and destroyed. So your amendment is already satisfied. I would add that it is better to talk about identification rather than registration, because it includes all cases. For all these reasons, the opinion is unfavourable to the four amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u330	I have before me eight amendments to the additional article after Article 20. Amendments Nos 132 and 289 are identical. Amendment No 132 by Mrs Cécile Untermaier is being defended. Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor to support Amendment No. 289.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u331	It is intended to request an annual report which lists decisions of classification without action and of criminal liability for mental disorder, and their follow-up at the health level. With this amendment, we take up recommendation 13 of the mission on the criminal irresponsibility of Dominique Raimbourg and Philippe Houillon. From our point of view and from their point of view, a specific report on this subject would answer some questions. We have addressed the subject: everyone agrees that it is sensitive and complex. According to the report, the mission found it extremely difficult to accurately identify procedures and their follow-up. On 18 June 2019, the Directorate of Criminal Affairs and Pardons (DACG), by dispatch, informed the courts that it was removing the system for the identification of decisions of criminal irresponsibility due to mental disorder. The aim was to reduce the burden of collecting and capturing data, i.e. a manual counting system introduced by the September and October 2008 dispatches. The DACG explained that the Ministry of Justice would now conduct statistical processing of criminal irresponsibility based on the data available in the criminal decision-making information system and in the national criminal record, arguing that they needed considerable enrichment. However, the authors of the report note that "the societal stakes attached to fine knowledge of procedures of this nature, with a view to implementing appropriate institutional responses, both judicial, health and administrative, justify an immediate focus on relevant counting without waiting for the hypothetical relief of a deployment [of different tools]". That is why we repeat this recommendation in our account and ask you to vote on this request for a report.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u332	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u333	I could reply that we are against any request for a report, but I will argue further.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u334	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u335	You take back a recommendation from the mission on the criminal irresponsibility of Dominique Raimbourg and Philippe Houillon. However, they do not recommend that the relevant report be submitted to Parliament. The aim is to organize the census of decisions of dismissal and criminal irresponsibility for reasons of mental disorder and their follow-up at the level of health. In my view, this is a regulatory matter. The opinion is therefore unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u336	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u337	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u338	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u339	Let's say this is an appeal amendment for this work to be done. The discussions on these subjects revealed how little was known about the issues of criminal irresponsibility, not even of judicial matters, including in Parliament. This promotes the spread of erroneous information. Parliamentarians need access to this data in order to know exactly what is being talked about and to avoid fuelling the incomprehensions that are expressed in public opinion. Everyone has been very sensitive to these issues, but the discussions present the problems in a distorted way. Criminal irresponsibility concerns a limited number of very specific cases. The request is therefore legitimate. We propose a report because it is the tool we have at our disposal. The stakes even concern parliamentarians and politicians, who have an important responsibility not to contribute to the dissemination of false information on such sensitive issues.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u340	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor to support Amendment No. 310.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u341	Again, it aims to obtain a report on the hospital and post-hospital follow-up of persons found to be criminally irresponsible because of their psychiatric disorders. In particular, associations of victims and their families are calling for better support for psychiatric patients who commit offences, in order to prevent them from recidivism. However, the state of the psychiatric hospital in France prevents professionals in the sector from providing full support to people when they leave the hospital. The report by our colleague Caroline Fiat, which emerged from the mission on the organisation of mental health, is eloquent in this respect. Unequal distribution of resources; medical desertification; difficulties in ensuring continuity and gradation of care; emergency congestion; partitioning between the city and the hospital, between disciplines, between somatic and psychiatry and even within mental health itself; Inefficient, extremely complex, illegible and in many respects inconsistent and poorly coordinated by the public authorities: all these explanations to the inability of hospital structures to follow the sick properly, especially those with particularly serious disorders, which have led them to commit condemnable acts, and are poorly followed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u342	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u343	Unfavorable opinion. Once again, I may object to the fact that we are against the reports, but I will develop arguments that will be worth the amendments that we are going to consider in a moment. [[Ms. Danièle Obono acquiesce]] At the end of our term of office, we can be proud of the work we have done during the legislature. However, fact-finding missions have done more for the effectiveness of our work than the reports submitted to Parliament by the Government. You know that for participating in some of these missions. They make it possible to formulate recommendations, which are then incorporated into a piece of legislation, whether it is a bill or a bill. Personally, I am very proud of this work, and I think we can all be. I am speaking here in my personal capacity, not as rapporteur. In my opinion, our work as legislator is to take over a subject and conduct an effective information mission, relayed by the media and parliamentarians and followed by our fellow citizens. We are their representatives and we have a responsibility vis-à-vis them. I am unfavorable to the reports, but very favorable to the missions – we have led them together.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u344	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u345	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u346	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u347	We too would like to see more fact-finding missions and more powers for parliamentarians, including investigative powers. These are issues that we discussed during the reform of the regulation, and I think we are rather deprived of them. In this case, it turns out that in order to prepare the bill before us today, there has been a flash mission. The rapporteur for this mission has explained to us that the issue of the judicial treatment of mental disorders is fundamental, but it is not the subject here. Go understand! We should have been able to go further, and that is precisely why we are asking for a report from the Government, more than we can get answers from the administrations. This is a minimum, while this bill does not include any of the recommendations of the very good report made by former parliamentarians.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u348	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor to support Amendment No. 311.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u349	This is again a request for a report. It would aim to assess the mechanism introduced by the Act of 25 February 2008 on the retention of security and the declaration of criminal irresponsibility for reasons of mental disorder; It would also focus on how best to make it accessible and understandable by the civil parties. This evaluation work could be carried out by the National Assembly, but it did not. The Government should therefore take responsibility for this. It should be remembered that this law had to respond to the emotion aroused by the Dupuy affair. It has significantly changed the judicial process, leading to statements of criminal irresponsibility in favour of victims. It brought a hearing before the Chamber of Investigation in which the facts are established, the responsibilities are laid down and, according to the adversarial procedure, the accused's irresponsibility is discussed. In addition, this hearing resulted in the judgment of the judges of a security measure – twenty years, in the case of Mrs. Halimi's murderer – and of an ex officio hospitalisation by the prefect under the supervision of the judge of freedoms and detention. It is therefore a form of trial before the Trial Chamber. Moreover, the Houillon-Raimbourg report recalls that successive legislative reforms "confirmed the establishment of a sui generis trial before the Chamber of Investigation". It is clear from the hearings that we have been able to attend that while many victims' associations are not fully satisfied, they mostly ask for better support. This report could, in our view, respond to these requests.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u350	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u351	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u352	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u353	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u354	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor – briefly, please.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u355	This is our last amendment, Mr. Chair, and it deals with a subject that is important enough for a fact-finding mission and a bill. I am surprised that we have no answers to our questions. The explanatory memorandum itself states that this is a question of responding to the emotion aroused, in particular, by the anti-Semitic crime which struck Mrs Halimi. There have been other similar cases, including the Dupuy case, the murder of a caregiver and a nurse. The purpose of this bill is to respond to a demand for justice from the victims' families, but also more generally from the public. Our proposals are in line with this very logic – but you reject them, without any argument, on the pretext that you do not want to incorporate them into the text of requests for reports. Can the Government at least commit itself to assessing the current provisions on criminal irresponsibility? The Assembly could do so as well. It is clear that your bill is neither intended to respond to a request for justice, nor to make the judicial treatment of the mental disorder understood, nor even to move forward on this essential issue, since you reject all the proposals – and for my part, I see this as an illustration of your lamentable lack of care.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u356	"Incury"! It's amazing!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u357	Mrs Lamia El Aaraje has the floor in support of Amendments Nos 127, 323, 320 and 391, which can be put together.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u358	I hear your arguments, Mr rapporteur: we do not wish to overburden the text with requests for a report. It is for us, as you have understood, to draw your attention to several subjects. In addition to some minor advances – that is to say, without in any way denigrating the proposals that have been made – I regret some shortcomings in this text. It does not address certain issues of concern: thus, we have no visibility on the reform of the General Inspectorate of the National Police (IGPN) or on the receipt of identity checks. You say that police practices do not pose a problem: therefore, these proposals do not in any way threaten the forces of law and order, on the contrary. With regard to minors in particular, they would help to restore a bond of trust between young people and police officers. As far as the local police are concerned, we also did not get any answers. You refer us to the finance bill, minister: we will discuss it again at that time. But, in order to restore confidence, the issue of staffing must be linked to that of the spirit and tasks that police officers are asked to carry out; Otherwise, I'm afraid we're not moving forward. I don't go back to law enforcement policy, or flashball. We also tabled amendments which I regret were declared inadmissible, while the right of amendment is protected by the Constitution, and our proposals were related to the subject matter of the debate. With regard to the video protection ethics committee that we proposed in an amendment that was declared inadmissible, you almost made me doubt, Minister, by saying that it already existed. Indeed, such bodies are sometimes set up – you have given examples of cities run by socialist elected officials, but elected representatives of other political families act in the same way. However, there is no standard, whereas a common definition would, in my view, move us forward. The debates on video protection sometimes take us back 20 years, and that's a shame. Ethics and transparency committees provide a better framework, as well as a better understanding of the reality of video protection. I agree with you on one point: the mayors' demand for video protection is increasingly important. Finally, we proposed the opening of a platform for reporting motorized rodeos. You will be sensitive, minister, to this idea, and I invite you to think about it. Many elected officials tell us that they follow these cases themselves, according to the reports made by the citizens, and that they compile this information to pass them on to the police. It's a tedious job that shouldn't be the responsibility of a mayor. A platform would allow law enforcement to react more quickly. These are the proposals that we would have liked to discuss.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u359	We have completed our review of the clauses of the bill. On the bill as a whole, I have a request for a public vote before the Republicans. The vote is announced in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u360	In explanation of vote, the floor is for Mr Antoine Savignat.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u361	The Republican Group will vote for this text, as we announced at the beginning of our work. Of course, as I said in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, it has a whole side, it is a kind of catch-up session for measures that have not yet been taken. Nevertheless, there is real progress in this area. The first important issue is criminal irresponsibility. He would probably have deserved a law on his own, but we have, I believe, advanced. To understand what we have just done, I would like us to step back from the Halimi case. We will not change the outcome; She's being tried, definitely, and poor Mrs. Halimi won't come back. But this case has highlighted holes in the racket on the legislative level...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u362	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, There are no snowshoes or holes in the snowshoe!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u363	...and we have them, I think, filled. I have no doubt that the victims will thank us, in the future, for the answers that will be given to them, while in the face of madness, the deterioration or abolition of discernment, our judicial system has so far been unable to provide answers. I hope that the Government will continue its work on this subject: beyond criminal liability, we must ask the question of medical follow-up, as Ms. Obono pointed out. What about those who have been declared irresponsible? Because of medical secrecy, I find it difficult to publish newsletters of people who have been declared irresponsible. It is the responsibility of the Government to improve the care of such persons. As regards the identification of minors, the text reproduces some of the proposals I made with our rapporteur Jean-François Eliaou. These provisions are important to me: we cannot accompany minors, work with them, advance them, if we do not know who they are. Keep in mind that the first thing that happens to you in life is the gift of a first name. This allows you to be in society and to be distinguished. This identification work is therefore essential: all social workers, those in the field of social assistance for children and those in the field of the judicial protection of young people, call for it. Their follow-up work will be considerably improved. As far as the penalties for violence against police officers are concerned, they are obviously a step forward in the protection that we owe to our law enforcement agencies; I also welcome the provisions on video capture, drones and the fight against rodeos, the real plague of our cities today. A small regret: we did not mention psychotropic substances, which are at the heart of all the topics covered by this text. They are often the cause of the alteration or abolition of discernment; They are very often also the cause of the unacceptable violence against police officers when they call on individuals shot at these drugs, which are real drugs, a character that we did not want to recognize in this text. I hope, however, that we will be able to change legislation so that we can sanction the use of psychotropic substances in the same way as drugs because they are also a scourge of our cities. However, as I said at the outset, the Republican Group will vote for this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u364	Mrs Blandine Brocard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u365	Without going back to the substance of the two parts of this text, I affirm that, despite the controversy surrounding it, this text contains great progress on the issue of criminal responsibility and on the protection of those who protect us. On the form, I would like to commend the work of co-construction on both the provisions on justice and internal security. Our group had raised concerns about some of the measures, which were partly retaliated by the Constitutional Council, but the Government has taken them into account and has been able to work with us to improve the consistency of the text and to ensure legal clarity. Our debates in committee and in session showed how much the Government and the rapporteurs have listened to parliamentarians. Thank you for the collective work that honours Parliament and allows us to reach a balanced and coherent text together. I must remind the gendarmes in my constituency of the need to continue the work undertaken to combat motorized rodeos. Thanks in particular to the commitment of Isabelle Florennes, our group has been actively involved in the fight against this scourge, and we will continue with the same involvement. Of course, it is easy to caricature this text, and some have not deprived themselves of it by adopting caricatural postures, without advancing the debate at all. However, this bill contains provisions necessary for our justice and security, which are the two legs on which our Republic works. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group]] It is therefore with confidence that the Democratic Group will vote for this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u366	Mrs Lamia El Aaraje has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u367	The Socialist and Related Group regrets that this text contains two parts which have little to do with each other, which undermines the clarity of our debates and the perception of them. Article 1 welcomes the exclusion from criminal liability of a person whose discernment has been abolished and who no longer controls his actions, where such abolition is the result of a deliberate intoxication of drugs or alcohol with a view to committing an offence. However, we must ask ourselves whether it is right to question a principle rooted in our legal tradition on the basis of a different fact. In the face of a heinous act like the one that struck us all, an anti-Semitic, barbaric act, such as that suffered by Mrs Halimi, it seems necessary to engrave in the marble of the law a principle on which the jurisprudence can be based. This Article 1 helps to justify the position we will adopt on the whole text. On Article 2, on the other hand, I do not hide from you that, as Mrs Untermaier has had the opportunity to indicate, we have very strong reservations, because it tends to make psychiatric analysis more complex, or even almost impossible. We regret that the mechanism expected by the victims and carried out with the psychiatrists a monitoring of the obligation of care over time, in connection with criminal irresponsibility, could not be instituted. My colleague has requested that this text be considered in the context of the General States of Justice. We call for particular vigilance on the question of the state of mental health in France. We have all mentioned cases of return home of people with mental disorders who are not being cared for. This is a major topic on which global solutions need to be developed. Far from adopting a caricatural posture, we have shown our willingness to co-build this text. We regret that the state of mind which should have prevailed in order to restore a bond of trust between the police and the citizens has not prevailed and that many of our amendments have not been accepted or even heard. The fundamental problem is how to restore this bond of trust. Beyond the questions of training, the numbers and the means on which we will return, the approach chosen is problematic: the police of proximity is not that of statistics and the number. As long as we don't solve this problem, we can't move forward. The President of the Republic himself, in conclusion of the Beauvau de la sécurité, proposed a reform of the IGPN, thus joining our concern for transparency. However, we regret that the Beauvau de la sécurité does not give rise to an ambitious text as planned, but that the drafting of a text is postponed beyond the elections of 2022, if the President of the Republic is re-elected. In any case, we believe that this reform of the IGPN is absolutely necessary; it must be made under the authority of a magistrate. Indeed, there is a need to increase the transparency of the monitoring and follow-up arrangements. We regret that the identity check receipt has not been retained, whereas it is a signal of transparency and clarity that could have been sent to our young people. We also regret the establishment of the operational reserve, as you set up a two-speed police force. We will be particularly vigilant on the issue of training and staffing. We note progress on video protection. We regret, however, that the limits set by the Constitutional Council are not, in our view, fully respected. We can move forward in a consensual way on certain issues, such as that of local ethics committees on video protection. Finally, with regard to urban rodeos, we await the opinion of the Council of State and the return of the text after its reading by the Senate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u368	Mrs Alexandra Louis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u369	First of all, I would like to stress the quality of the debates we have had in this Chamber and in the Committee on Laws. This text provides answers on criminal responsibility as well as on internal security. Criminal responsibility is the foundation of our criminal law. Without free will, neither judgment nor punishment is possible. In a rule of law, we don't judge madmen. That being said, the Halimi case has justifiably moved us all and pointed to loopholes in our legal arsenal that we could not leave as it was. Following an important work of co-construction, led by the keeper of the seals and the parliamentarians, in particular by Naïma Moutchou and Antoine Savignat, we have managed to draft legislation that repairs these flaws while remaining faithful to our republican and democratic principles. Thus, a person who takes psychotropic drugs when he or she knows that he or she risks losing his or her discernment and committing the irreparable must be punished for it, in the same way as a person who, in order to give himself or herself courage, takes drugs to commit the heinous crime whose purpose he or she conceives. We must work on accompaniment of care within the framework of the general states of justice. This text responds to a second issue, that of the safety of our citizens. It follows the partial censorship by the Constitutional Council of Act No. 2021-646 of 25 May 2021 for a comprehensive security that preserves freedoms. To debate these provisions again in this House shows the vitality of our democracy, because the Government, after hearing the complaints of the Constitutional Council, is proposing new provisions. The aim is to give law enforcement forces innovative means to make them effective on the ground, in the face of offenders who themselves innovate, while respecting our constitutional framework. It is always a difficult exercise, in a democracy, to find this balance, but I believe that with these provisions we have found it, particularly on the subject of video protection. This topic is an important topic for debate because it touches on important notions of law. However, as police and gendarmes say, these tools are essential in the field. These provisions provide a respectful framework for the use of these tools and help to elucidate cases. It is about the safety of our fellow citizens. We have provided a number of answers on urban rodeos, in the continuity of what has been done since the beginning of this mandate about a scourge that is rotting the lives of our fellow citizens. We must protect those who protect us. Let me conclude by welcoming the police and gendarmes who, every day, risk their lives and safety to guarantee ours. As we speak, they are on the ground in sometimes difficult conditions. We parliamentarians all want to improve their working conditions. We are at their side; They are the faces of the Republic and we must give them the means to work. I know that we will continue to do so collectively. That is why the Group of the European People's Party will, of course, vote in favour of this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u370	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u371	Of course, we will vote against this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u372	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u373	It's a tote bill, a poisonous pottery...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u374	Oh, it's been a long time, we missed it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u375	We said from the general discussion what we thought of this text. The examination of his articles did not lead us to change our mind. With regard to criminal irresponsibility and the abolition of discernment, the important issues that may have emerged in the debate are not those contained in the articles of this bill, which concern only "school cases", as has been said, and which would not have changed anything at the end of the judgement in the Halimi case.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u376	Your sufficiency is unbearable!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u377	The real problems were not addressed in this text: it does not contain any proposals concerning psychiatry, and in particular the means of psychiatric hospitals. Nor does it contain anything on a subject that we are dealing with throughout the year in the law commission, namely psychiatry in detention. This is a major issue: in some prisons, more than 70 per cent of inmates are followed for psychiatric disorders, while prison guards are not psychiatric nurses. We had an exchange on how to obtain ex officio hospitalization or coerced hospitalization by amending Article 706 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, but you replied that this was not the subject of the text. Indeed, solving the concrete problems is not the subject of this text! It is dramatic to make political communication on a subject and on a case that has created emotion in the country, instead of dealing with the problems that actually arise. On the internal security side – I find that you haven't found a name that characterizes what you're proposing, proof that it's a stuffed text - tout...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u378	Oh, there!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u379	You replay the game with the Constitutional Council and you continue to put in place a security technology, a surveillance company, pretending that this is no problem for those who have nothing to blame. [["Oh! » on a few benches of the LaREM group]] The problem is that one of the rights is the right to privacy, for example, which is not trivial. Maybe you don't care; That's not our case. Such rights and freedoms seem important. I would remind you that freedoms are the best security, not the other way around. This principle should guide us in the Chamber and in our country. I come back to a small point, which may seem a point of detail, but which is symptomatic of your vision of society, of criminal procedure, and of the criminalization of certain offences. I'm thinking of the flat-rate fine you're creating for shoplifting. In concrete terms, a person commits shoplifting by stealing, at random, one or ten packets of pasta with a value of less than 300 euros. Today, she will be arrested, the police officer must come to the scene and the security officer will attest that she stole the pasta packages. A procedure is followed: she will pass to trial and the magistrate will look at her social situation, if she has means of subsistence, if the state of necessity, which is a legal concept, can be qualified. Questions arise for the judge who tries to individualize the sentence, to take into consideration the general situation of the person. But you want to replace this with a fine. Thus, the police officer will go there, see the theft and impose a fine of 300 euros which will be reduced to 250 if the person pays immediately, whereas it is typically a crime of necessity, often – we speak of stolen goods with a value of less than 300 euros. People like Xavier Bertrand tell you that fines are imposed that are not paid, proposing to deduct their amount from the social assistance paid. This is delusional, because the public treasury already has a lot of powers: it can make seizures on salary and bank account, which is amply enough. [[Protests on a few benches of the Dem group]] Finally, you do not make any kind of political proposal. This is what you mean by simplification, particularly of the procedure; This is against the principles that should enliven us. Moreover, with regard to the simplification of the criminal procedure announced at the Beauvau de la sécurité, I expect everyone to hear us, especially all the legal professionals. You will have understood that, in the words of Minister Darmanin, simplifying the criminal procedure is essentially a review of the rights of lawyers because, you understand, they are a heaviness, especially during the custody that is filmed. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] For all these reasons, we will vote against this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u380	Thank you very much for your grade and weight!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u381	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u382	We are all aware of the difficult work of the police and security forces, which is indispensable. The problem is that the text does not solve the problems: we are not convinced by its contribution and we do not see how it could avoid heinous crimes such as those we have unfortunately known. Contrary to what has been announced, article 2, for example, may well lead to the sentencing of persons who have been declared criminally irresponsible by the courts. On the other hand, the issue of human, material and specialized psychiatric services is not addressed in the text, although it is central. We are also concerned, as we have said, about the operational reserve of the National Police, particularly with regard to the carrying of weapons by reservists. What are the conditions for the recruitment of these people? What are the conditions for their training? They are not detailed in the bill, which refers to an order-in-council, while clearly it is a matter of providing a proper framework for this activity. In any event, the carrying of weapons requires adequate training. We are also opposed to the monitoring measures, which were censored by the Constitutional Council and which you are proposing again. We are concerned about the increasing development of video surveillance, particularly by drones, which can be used in very numerous cases, especially in police cells. Clearly, these measures constitute a disproportionate violation of individual freedoms. In substance, this text, in addition to other security laws adopted since the beginning of the mandate, contributes to further restricting the freedom of citizens. In a democracy, however, everyone can have a hierarchy of values, of which security is of course a part, we do not forget. But for the LT group, I want to remind you once again, individual freedom is a supreme value.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u383	All right, congratulations!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u384	Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u385	On the form, it is surprising that the bill originally introduced to restrict cases of criminal irresponsibility, in response to the Sarah Halimi case, is ultimately much broader and focuses on internal security. Of the six titles and twenty articles of the bill, only one title and three articles are devoted to criminal responsibility, while three titles and eleven articles deal with the issue of internal security. In the end, this text contains disparate, unreadable provisions; It is a piece of legislation - everything that, on the one hand, reintroduces security arrangements, some of which are the result of the law for comprehensive security that preserves the freedoms censored by the Constitutional Council, such as drones, on the other hand, provides for new provisions relating to criminal law, the administrative and judicial police and the juvenile justice system without any overall coherence. With regard to the advisability of a reform of criminal irresponsibility, the conclusions of Philippe Houillon and Dominique Raimbourg's report on criminal irresponsibility of February 2021 call for article 122-1 of the Criminal Code to be retained as it stands. They point out that "the abolition of discernment at the time of the act is exclusive of intent within the meaning of criminal law. The mission considered that it could not be compromised with this principle without questioning our penal structure. » With regard to internal security provisions, the text provided for provisions to strengthen the repression of attacks against the internal security forces and transformed the national police's civil reserve into an operational reserve, similar to that of the national gendarmerie and the armed forces. The draft law contains provisions on the use of cameras in the police cell, airborne cameras, cameras on land vehicles and boats by certain State agencies in the performance of their administrative police duties. As we said and repeated this morning, this model of society where we would be filmed permanently is not ours. The Government, the executive in general, and many others in this Chamber criticize states that spend their lives filming their people, sometimes calling them dictatorships. Well, I invite you to ensure that our country does not become that kind of society where the entire population would be filmed from morning to evening, monitored and where individual and collective freedoms would be violated. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] The provisions of the internal security component are very disparate, lack overall coherence and unnecessarily complicate the applicable law. Several of them, which had been censored by the Constitutional Council, were reintroduced into the bill. Differently drafted, these criminal measures, which remain vague or indefinite, still raise concerns about the necessary reconciliation between the objectives pursued and the infringements of the right to privacy and freedoms. All these comments, as well as all of our amendments, urge the GDR Group to vote against this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u386	Mr. Jean Terlier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u387	Unsurprisingly, the La République en marche group will obviously vote for this text. It is not a far-reaching text, as has been said on some benches, but a truly ambitious text that is in keeping with the commitments made by the President of the Republic to make security and justice the priorities of this quinquennium. During the quinquennium, the justice budget increased by 30 per cent, which had never been done. The Minister of the Interior, Gérald Darmanin, recalled: his ministry's budget increased by 1.7 billion euros. These are the commitments that are made and that are reflected in this bill, far from being caricatural and the fruit of parliamentary co-construction, as Mrs Brocard pointed out. It is quite exceptional in this area, reports have been submitted successively by members of the majority and the opposition: I am thinking of the report of the MPs Savignat and Moutchou, but also that of the MPs Eliaou and Savignat or that of Jean-Michel Mis, who have greatly enriched the bill. I would like to point out that it contains ambitious arrangements, particularly in the area of justice. I would also like to thank Antoine Savignat very sincerely,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u388	For his amendments!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u389	...which informed us about the relevance of the criminal liability and irresponsibility scheme. Article 1 makes it difficult to see how today there can be a hole in the racket while terrorists consume psychotropic drugs to give themselves courage, which will lead them to commit the irreparable. Article 1 is therefore relevant. In the context of domestic violence, the provisions of article 2, as you have also rightly said, will make it possible to determine whether a person who has consumed psychoactive substances, losing his discernment and who can be declared criminally irresponsible as a result of the abolition of that substance, was clairvoyant at the time of taking these substances. It can thus be criminalized on the basis of new offences relating to the voluntary poisonings that we create. I sincerely thank my colleague Naïma Moutchou, the rapporteur of the bill, whose work has allowed the system to evolve. I once again welcome the work of the rapporteur Jean-François Eliaou and Antoine Savignat on the difficult issue of fingerprinting unaccompanied minors. The guarantees are guaranteed: these devices allow to carry out checks against their will while ensuring the protection they are owed. With regard to internal security arrangements, I confess that I do not fully understand our oppositions. We cannot at the same time say that we want to protect our law enforcement forces in the context of the refusal to comply, for example, and to argue that we would be against this text. Nor can we say that we want more policemen and gendarmes – we have already recruited an additional 10,000 during this quinquennium...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u390	That's better!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u391	... and refuse to vote on the provisions relating to the establishment of an operational reserve for the gendarmerie. Nor can we say that we are against drones, while at the time of their hearing, our police officers and gendarmes were very supportive of the establishment of a legal framework for their use. [[Applause on the banks of the LaREM group. – Mrs BlandineBrocardapplauditedalso]] Yes, the bill provides for a set of measures that are very relevant and that will strengthen the protection of our fellow citizens, and increase the human and financial resources of our law enforcement forces that await them so much.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u392	I put the whole bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u393	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 48 Number of votes cast 42 Absolute majority 22 For adoption 34 Against 8
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-23-E3005.u394	Next sitting, Tuesday, at 3 p.m.: Questions to the Government; Reading the conclusions of the Joint Joint Committee on the draft law on various adaptation provisions to European Union law in the field of transport, environment, economy and finance; Bill ratifying the Ordinance of 21 April 2021 on self-employed persons. The meeting is adjourned.
