ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1304.u1	The President of the National Assembly received from the Prime Minister communication of the decree of the President of the Republic dated 14 June 2021, calling the Parliament to an extraordinary session as from 1 July 2021. The agenda for this special session will be published in the Official Journal of 15 June 2021.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1304.u2	The next item is the debate on the assessment of the impact of measures taken in the context of the health crisis on the health and life expectancy of the French. The Conference of Presidents decided to organize this debate in two parts: as a first step, we will hear the speakers of the groups and then the Government; We will then proceed to a sequence of questions and answers. Mrs Valérie Petit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1304.u3	On 12 March 2020, while our country was going through one of the most serious health crises in its history, the President of the Republic told the French: "Health has no price. The Government will mobilize all the financial means necessary to provide assistance, to care for the sick, to save lives at all costs. Today, no one can deny that this promise of "no matter what" has been fulfilled. France, one of the most generous countries in terms of health, economic and social support, never counted when it came to saving lives and caring for the 5.7 million French people affected by the covid. For example, the Ministry of Economy, Finance and Recovery estimates the cost of the crisis at almost EUR 424 billion, a level of expenditure that corresponds to one and a half times France's annual budget. If 110,000 French people have died of this terrible virus, no one can deny that many lives have been saved thanks to health measures and both confinements. In a study published last May entitled "Years of Life Earned, Years of Life Lost", the think tank GenerationLibre puts forward the figure of 100,000 lives saved. This estimate is within the range mentioned by scientific studies, ranging from 20,000 to 220,000 lives saved. So yes, we saved lives and we didn't count on that, that's a fact. But what exactly do we mean by "saved lives"? In the above-mentioned study, the authors propose an estimate of the effects of health measures, not on the number of deaths due to the covid -19 epidemic, but on the life expectancy of the French. In other words, they carry out a cost-benefit analysis of health measures based not on deaths avoided, but on years of life expectancy earned or lost. Their results reveal a very different view of the effects of the crisis. On the one hand, by saving nearly 100,000 lives, health measures have enabled the French to earn about 500,000 years of life expectancy; On the other hand, by increasing poverty, the economic and social crisis caused by the pandemic would have cost them 1.2 million years of life expectancy less. As you can see, the balance is negative, as confirmed by the latest INSEE figures on life expectancy at birth in 2020. Indeed, it has fallen sharply compared to 2019, with men losing an average of half a year, as poverty in our country is growing. INSEE notes that the financial situation of the poorest households has deteriorated more than that of the most affluent. One third of them estimate that their monthly income declined between March 2020 and March 2021, while the number of RSA recipients increased by 7.5% in 2020. For its part, the Secours Catholique estimates the number of French people who have fallen into poverty at 1 million. As you know, Minister of Solidarity and Health, there is a correlation between poverty and life expectancy: a poor woman sees her life expectancy reduced by eight years, a poor man, by twelve years. So tonight, it is not a question of judging, including from a moral point of view, the action of the Government and its determination to take the best measures for the good of the French – of which no one doubts here. What is at stake is the rigorous, scientific assessment of public decision-making and action in the unprecedented context of the state of health emergency, because, as we know, there will be other crises and we must prepare for them as best we can. I know no other way than to evaluate for better action; This is what I was defending in 2018 in a parliamentary report that only the drawer of my office remembers. It is time for Parliament to take over its prerogatives to evaluate the public policies provided for in Article 24 of our Constitution. Assessing for better action is the meaning of this debate on the agenda of the National Assembly at the request of the Working Group. We wanted not only to play our role as an evaluator but also to work together with the Government on a comprehensive and relevant model for assessing the impact of measures taken in the context of the state of health emergency. To do this, Mr Minister, and on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, I would like to make it possible to answer three questions. The first concerns the Government's intentions to assess the impact of measures taken under the state of health emergency. What is planned to report rigorously to Parliament and the French on the impact of the health crisis on the lives of the French? Do you have any information on the proposed measures and timetable to present to us? [[Patricia Mirallès applauds]] My second question relates to the evaluation model that will be used to analyse the full impact of the crisis. It must be sufficiently comprehensive to grasp all aspects of the lives of French people affected by the health crisis. However, it must be noted that the indicators available to us are insufficient. Here's an example. We know how to measure the effects of the crisis on the health of our fellow citizens: for example, 110299 French people died as a result of covid-19 and 5.76 million positive cases were detected. On the other hand, we do not know how to measure the number of French people with covid-19 who continue to have symptoms, at least 12 weeks after their infection; They are suffering from what is called long covid. Their number is estimated to be at least 1.5 million and the evaluation remains insufficient. Today, the understanding and treatment of the sequelae of covid-19 is still too little evaluated and, therefore, too little taken into account. Long Covid Research Teams lack human and financial resources to understand the disease; the professional world and occupational medicine are still insufficiently sensitized and trained; patients struggle to be detected and cared for through dedicated care pathways. The example of long covid is relevant to show that there is an urgent need to better understand and evaluate in order to act better. We also need to better assess the effects of confinements in terms of cessation of care, deprogramming of care, shrinking of screening, worsening of certain pathologies or changes in attitudes towards vaccination. Finally, we must also take into account the mental health of the French. Again, this is a difficult and long-term effect on which we must conduct a more rigorous assessment. In particular, we know that 19% of French people suffer from a depressive state, nine points higher than the level observed before the epidemic. Here, too, we need more information to answer questions about patient care and physician training. In addition, more than a third of French people have significantly increased their consumption of tobacco, cannabis or psychotropic drugs. Addiction disorders are another health emergency that we need to assess and take care of, not just by imposing lump-sum fines. Beyond the short-term health of our fellow citizens – that was the meaning of my introduction – it is urgent to quantify the social consequences of the crisis of the covid-19 because, as we know, poverty aggravates and shortens life. These lives that the crisis is deteriorating are for them that we must now mobilize and fight. Conducting a rigorous assessment of the social cost of the crisis on life expectancy is a means of not underestimating the fight ahead of us, which must be a priority of our public policies. Minister, can you reassure us of the will of the Government, and in particular of your ministry, which is also that of solidarity, to measure also the health impact of the social fragility and poverty to which our most fragile fellow citizens are subjected? Finally, my final question relates to the means available to assess the effect of the measures taken in the context of the state of health emergency. During the preparation of this intervention, I had the pleasure of working with our statisticians, in particular those of INSEE, the Directorate of Research, Studies, Evaluation and Statistics – DRESS – and the Directorate of Animation, Research, Studies and Statistics – DARES. Their expertise and valuable work are essential to conducting a rigorous assessment of the health and social effects of the crisis and I particularly wished to greet them – I hope that the butchers of Tourcoing will forgive me. As you know, much remains to be done to facilitate the sharing of data and the collaboration of administrations in statistics. This is an essential task for assessing the impact of the health crisis. Could you tell us whether he is well placed on the agenda, particularly the Ministry of Transformation and the Public Service? [[Applause on the benches of the groups Agir ens and Dem, as well as on some benches of the group LaREM]] Minister Olivier, I thank you in advance for your precise answers and I wish our House a rich, informed and productive debate with your enthusiastic applause.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1304.u4	Mrs Agnes Chill has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1304.u5	According to INSEE figures, the covid-19 pandemic reduced French life expectancy to 85.2 years for women, a decrease of almost five months, and to 79.2 years for men, a decrease of six months. But this figure is an average estimate; It is essential to analyse it in more depth. Not all French people have lost five to six months of life expectancy. On the other hand, the crisis of the covid-19 resulted in an overmortality of the elderly, which mechanically reduced life expectancy. The question of the elderly is obviously the key point of our debate on the assessment of the impact of health measures on the health and life expectancy of the French. In this regard, several dysfunctions are to be noted, including many confusions about the real causes of death. Some have been incorrectly recorded as coronavirus-related disappearances. This is due, among other things, to the malfunctioning of the information and screening system of Public Health France. In addition, the management of the health crisis in EHPADs has been strongly criticized, including in our Chamber, on many occasions and by many colleagues. A large number of residents were not convicted of confinement; It is not an exaggeration to say that some have really died of it. I would like to emphasize this point out of respect and justice for those who have experienced these sometimes truly inhuman situations. Protected from coronavirus but delivered to loneliness, many elderly people have been truly depressed, some even refusing to eat, cut off from their own, without being able to say goodbye. Minister, they did not die of covid-19, but of loneliness, despair and sadness. To cover us legally, they were prevented from dying. In doing so, they were prevented from living. But to prevent life is to kill. How can you explain that hundreds of people couldn't even see their loved ones one last time? Why couldn't they hold their hands one last time, wrapped in covers?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1304.u6	Is this the minister's fault?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1304.u7	How can you justify to the families that they could not live this last good-bye? It's unworthy of a civilization. These may not be your recommendations, but that's how things have been implemented, and these situations are the direct result of government directives,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1304.u8	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1304.u9	That's shameful, Mrs. Chill!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1304.u10	... more established to avoid criminal responsibility of ministers than to protect older ones. What is the meaning of preventing a 97-year-old man from dying in EHPAD? He can die anytime, anything. Letting them die is letting them live, and letting them live is letting them die. They've been locked up for months. What did they do when they came back from the war? By trying to prevent them from the brutal death due to coronavirus, they were led to a social death, slow and painful in abandonment and loneliness. By trying to stop them from dying, they were prevented from living and many died. Consider the collective's mission Hold your hand. I will always see this 88-year-old old lady, crying behind the hospital gate because her husband was dead and, above all, she had been forbidden from going to see him after 70 years of common life and night. How many of them haven't been able to see their loved ones? Finally, the vaccination came to offer a late but welcome exit door. As of June 12, according to covidtracker.fr, more than 83% of people over the age of 65 received at least one dose of covid-19 vaccine. Yet, do you know that in my constituency, you always have to make an appointment to visit his eldest in EHPAD? Between 10 April and 10 May, the 75-79-year-old vaccination rate rose from 69 to 82 per cent, an increase of 13 points, while between 10 May and 10 June, it increased by only six points to 88 per cent. So we risk reaching a form of glass ceiling. This is one of the questions we have to ask ourselves tonight: how can we convince the last people to vaccinate? Let me conclude by referring to the issue of deprogrammed operations and late detection of diseases. Once again, the coronavirus has come to upset an already fragile health system. Operations and screenings could not take place or were delayed. These are some of the issues we can address tonight. I thank our colleagues in the Working Together Group for giving us the opportunity and I encourage the Government to provide clear and precise answers to the French.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1304.u11	Really shameful!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1304.u12	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1304.u13	The covid-19 epidemic caused an unexpected paradox: while we were trying to preserve our health and save the lives of the most vulnerable, measures taken to curb the epidemic and recommended behaviours have had and continue to have a number of negative effects on the health and life expectancy of the French. Successive confinements – the first in particular – have had direct and indirect consequences for our physical and mental well-being. Care must be taken to assess and minimize the health consequences associated with postponements and cessations of care. These will only be visible in a few years, but they must be avoided today. During the first confinement, almost 60% of people indicated that they did not have at least one treatment or action they needed. Very quickly, the decline in medical activity occurred in all territories, due to the fear of being contaminated, contaminating others or overloading doctors. An under-consumption of drugs for chronic diseases was also noted. With each epidemic recovery, health facilities had to undertake massive deprogramming of non-emergency medical and surgical interventions. This has led to and continues to lead to sometimes irreversible loss of chances. Fear has been particularly strong for women who face unwanted pregnancy. Field alerts have been numerous. Family planning has thus reported a threefold increase in calls for access to abortion – a voluntary termination of pregnancy – or a delay in seeking abortion. On the other hand, people who give up care are those who have experienced a decline in income: as often social and health frailties combine. Beyond access to care, there are long-term effects on the lack of prevention and delays in screening. The health crisis has legitimately monopolized our attention, at the risk of placing the prevention of other diseases in the second place. This resulted in a 10% decrease in mammograms and a 20% decrease in colonoscopy. Some studies lead to an average cancer mortality of 6% over the next five years. This excess mortality would even reach 20% for cancers of the uterus. Vaccination has also been slowed down, even though we have just made it mandatory to inject eight more vaccines for children. In this regard, the delay in the first confinement has not yet been fully recovered, which may delay the eradication of certain infectious diseases. Prevention is also physical activity and sport, which experienced a sharp slowdown during confinements, because – as we know – of the closure of clubs and sports halls. We must not neglect this aspect at all, especially as addictive practices have increased in parallel. As it has been falling in recent years, we have seen a rise in smoking in 2020, particularly among the most vulnerable. These addictive practices are also indicators of the deterioration of the mental health of the French, especially the most modest. Stress, fear for oneself and his loved ones, lack of human contact: anxiety or depressive states have increased impressively. There is a great deal of concern for the younger children: child psychiatry services are largely overburdened. However, mental health issues appear to be less taboo. This awareness must continue and materialize through political actions to support the financing and the territorial organisation of psychiatry. One-off measures for students and children must be sustained. Finally, how can we not talk about our elders and more specifically the residents of our EHPADs? They paid a heavy price in this crisis. As the first victims of the epidemic, they also had a very poor experience of isolation measures, which precipitated slipping phenomena. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem and Actir ens groups]] Minister, the covid-19 epidemic must be an opportunity to rethink our health care system and policies to support self-reliance. It is still time to prevent new tragedies from being added to this health crisis. There is also a need to build on positive initiatives that have emerged, such as health cooperation in the field, telemedicine and support for mental health. We must collectively make this crisis a lesson.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1304.u14	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1304.u15	Antoine, 43, with liver cancer, says: "At night, I nightmare about my tumors that are growing and developing. They should have been treated as early as April 2020 and only in June. Result: metastases two months later. We're going crazy, thinking about all this time lost on the disease. France boasts of having escaped an Italian situation, with patients treated in corridors, for lack of space. But what does she do with us, apart from leaving us sick at home? France failed just as it stopped taking care of everyone. » Last November, the Cancer League estimated the number of cancers not detected or detected late at 30,000. It now estimates that almost 93,000 cancers were not detected in 2020, which could lead to the death of 1,000 to 6,000 people in the coming years. In its last report, health insurance has seen an unprecedented decline in the use of city care during the first confinement. This decline is 80-90% for ophthalmology and dental care, 60% for specialists and 30% for general practitioners. In addition, 80 per cent of operations had to be reprogrammed to release beds. As a result, 47% of the population had their care cancelled or postponed. In addition, 24 per cent of people report worsening symptoms and deteriorating health conditions. This has led to a loss of confidence in the health care system in 29% of those affected by deprogramming, while 11% of those interviewed have created anxiety. Mental health is particularly affected by this deterioration. OpinionWay's infographic on the psychological state of French employees after a year of covid -19 reveals how the psychological distress of the population has increased. For example, 45 per cent of respondents feel distress at work, of which 20 per cent feel distress at a high level. The rate of depressions requiring accompaniment has exploded from 21 to 36 per cent in one year. As for the number of burn-outs, it almost doubled in one year, with nearly 2 million people in burn-outs. Today, however, our health care system is not in a position to cope with the arrival of such a wave of pathologies and disorders, whether physical or mental. The austerity cures imposed by successive governments, including the current government, have seriously weakened it. The seriousness of the situation erupted in the light of the crisis of the covid -19, but the epiphany of the jupiterian of 12 March 2020 – "Health has no price", exclaimed the President of the Republic – lasted only for the first time. To enable caregivers to fulfil their mission in good conditions, the Segur of Health is largely insufficient. This year, the Government imposed an additional 4 billion savings on health expenditures. In the midst of a pandemic, hospital bed and service closures continue at low noise:...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1304.u16	That's totally wrong!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1304.u17	...970 in Paris, 350 in Tours, 200 in Tarbes, 230 in Marseille, 200 in Nice, 200 in Caen. We have to stop this harmful logic! That is what the many caregivers who will be participating in the Public Service Mobilization Day tomorrow will say, and I hope you will hear them, Minister. We support these mobilizations of caregivers. It is no longer just a question of applause, but also of responding to what they are defending to improve the health of French people. We propose to change the paradigm and to place the general human interest at the heart of the organization of our health system. In order for caregivers to be able to work in good conditions, large-scale recruitment is required in particular, and urgently. In our 2021 budget counter-draft last fall, we assessed the needs of 62,500 caregivers and 210,000 staff in EHPADs. We must also increase their remuneration: we support the collectives' demand for a real increase of 300 euros per month. According to the World Health Organization (WHO), "health is a complete state of physical, mental and social well-being and is not simply a lack of disease or disability." Moreover, "the possession of the highest attainable standard of health is one of the fundamental rights of every human being, regardless of race, religion, political opinion or economic and social condition". Governments have responsibility for the health of their people. They can only cope with this by taking appropriate health and social measures. However, for the past four years, and even more so with the crisis of the covid-19, the Government has failed in its missions. When we are in charge, we will respond with adequate human, financial and material resources in health, as well as social and environmental matters. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] During this debate, we will question the Government on a number of measures, including those related to mental health. But it is broader that, from our point of view, we must put health policy back in place and finally make it serve the health and well-being of French and French people.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1304.u18	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1304.u19	The debate this evening is an opportunity to take stock of the management of the health crisis. The assessment of successive measures taken by the Government since March 2020 to curb the epidemic has been the subject of two separate commissions of inquiry in the National Assembly and the Senate, to which must be added the report of my colleague Marie-George Buffet to measure and prevent the effects of the crisis of the covid-19 on children and youth. This work has clearly shown the executive's shortcomings in crisis management, whether it is the deployment of masks, access to tests or its over-centralized steering. They denounce the impoverishment of our health system, which has found itself underarmed in beds and staff, due to successive policies of reducing public spending. More than 15 months after the start of this test, the human score is heavy: 110,000 people died of covid-19 and more than half of the hospitalized people continue to suffer from various symptoms, grouped under the term "long covid". In addition, the harmful impacts of confinements on our daily lives, social interactions and mental health. If the epidemic has put a severe strain on society as a whole, I will focus on the impact of the health crisis on two particularly vulnerable groups of the population: the elderly and the young. The former have been affected by excessive overmortality, while the latter suffer a deterioration in their living conditions that are detrimental to their mental health. The critical situation of the EHPADs was long known and the crisis only exacerbated the daily difficulties: lack of public resources, understaffed, degraded working conditions, lack of medicalization. It was on this damaged ground that the health crisis flourished. The EHPADs paid a heavy price. In the first wave alone, 29,933 people died as a result of covid-19, nearly half of whom were residents of EHPAD. This health drama has been accompanied by social and psychological distress in institutions, with poor living conditions for the elderly. The containment measures reinforced their sense of isolation and limited their social contacts. The ban on family visits, so important for these people, was an additional test. All of this must be our concern, Minister. They reflect the impotence and isolation in which staff and managers of these structures have been placed. New means are needed to hire large numbers of people, with a view to achieving a supervision rate of six caregivers for ten residents and improving working conditions. It is time to recognize the social utility of the care and home help trades, by revising the salary scales that have been blocked for years around the SMIC: this is an indispensable prerequisite for their attractiveness. There is a need to move forward on the medicalization of EHPADs by strengthening the presence of co-ordinating physicians. More broadly, we can no longer avoid the need for profound changes in the management of the loss of autonomy, now at the end of the breath. It is essential to change the model of EHPAD,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1304.u20	It's time!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1304.u21	... with priority "care".
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1304.u22	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1304.u23	As far as youth is concerned, the findings are also harsh. Deprived of social interactions, prevented from continuing their schooling under normal conditions, faced with economic and even food insecurity, young people have suffered a severe deterioration of their mental health. Despite several government announcements aimed at accompaniment to young people, the account is not there. Young people remain at risk of poverty due to lack of minimum social protection. I am of course thinking of the need to open the RSA to young people from the age of 18. Access to care, including psychological counselling, is not sufficiently guaranteed due to a shortage of doctors in schools and universities. The "Psych check" appears as a bandage on a wooden leg. On the contrary, we call for the reconstruction of school and university medicine, the only way to implement an effective prevention policy. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] This intervention is accompanied by several proposals and is not limited to taking stock of the months we have just lived.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1304.u24	Mrs Mireille Robert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1304.u25	The pandemic has spread around the world since the end of 2019, showing the fragility of humanity in the face of the viruses that regularly attack it: I am not going to go back to the history of pandemics, the global news reminds us of its memories and the means that are binding but necessary for our protection. The risk of zoonoses spreading is very real, as attested by avian influenza. We monitor viral mutations to prevent animal-to-human spreads, but the viral pandemic is a real risk to humanity. I want to have a thought for the 110,000 French deaths of the covid -19: this is not a number but people who had a family and friends; These are so many, sometimes very difficult ones, that we must keep in mind. I would also like to reiterate, on behalf of my group but certainly the whole House, our gratitude to medical and paramedical personnel, hospitals and towns. Their exemplary self-denial deserves respect, which also means that we will have to take better account of the difficulties they face in the future. On this point, the first assessment we will have to draw is on the question of the adequacy of the provision of care to the evolution of the health of the French. A year of pandemic has changed our behaviour and contributed to the emergence of psychiatric pathologies that we need to understand and heal. In schools, we know all the fire drills: children and school teams are now confronted with counter-terrorism exercises and have learned for a year the constant wearing of the mask and the barrier gestures. We know that such experiments will leave lasting traces. Since March 2020, Public Health France has conducted a study on 2000 people to assess the psychological consequences, in particular on sleep disorders and depressive symptoms that affect a third of those interviewed in the "CoviPrev 21" survey. We are putting in place a comprehensive care scheme for children aged 3 to 17 and the Student Health check has been available since 1 February: this is concrete! However, we need to train more psychiatrists and psychologists for the future. I want to stress the need for resources with the Minister of National Education and the Minister of Higher Education for young people and the teams that accompany them on a daily basis. We must strengthen preventive psychiatric medicine in institutions: this must be done in close association with regions, departments and municipalities in order to meet the needs in the territories. The other challenge we face is the return to health care and disease prevention. During this period, we experienced a massive decline in the use of care for various reasons, resulting in difficulties of access to fear of the spread of the virus. We know that giving up care is a daily reality: our social security system does not prevent 25% of French people from giving up care in normal times; With the pandemic, 39% of people surveyed by health insurance did not go to the general practitioner. The Government has encouraged the maintenance of emergency care and monitoring of pregnancies, chronic diseases and children. He encouraged the necessary development of teleconsultation, which can and must take on even greater scope. Telemedicine has not been enough, especially for the precarious populations that we must continue to accompany, regardless of their origins: it is about public health. On this point, access to digital instruments is essential, but there is also a need to improve connections, especially in rural areas. Dental and ophthalmic care even declined by 90% in the first wave: this led to the non-use of life-saving emergency care. The Federation hospitalière de France (FHF) has focused on overmortality because of a heart attack not being dealt with in time. Cancer prevention has also been severely affected: the National Cancer Institute (INCa) shows that between March and July 2020, 32000 scheduled operations were not carried out. With the decline in visits to the general practitioner, the whole policy of prevention and care has been affected, and unfortunately we have to expect an over-mortality of 5 to 7% in the next five years, before the system regains its full capacity to function. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM groups and Action ens]] The restart we know must not make us forget what has happened and is still happening every day because of the covid-19. The appearance of long covid will force us to treat a multitude of patients for additional states of fatigue and fragility. We did not wait until the end of the crisis: during the last law on the financing of social security, we learned the lessons of this test by investing massively in the health system; We will continue our efforts in the next PLFSS on the basis of the initial assessments of the impact of the crisis on the health and life expectancy of the French.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1304.u26	Mr Patrick Hetzel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1304.u27	This evening we are addressing the question of the impact of the measures taken in the context of the health crisis on the health and life expectancy of French women and men. Several important aspects have already been mentioned, which concern both young people and our elders. One of the key topics concerns the numerous delays in the management of other diseases due to covid-19:...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1304.u28	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1304.u29	...all doctors have brought back to us information that chronic disease management has been severely delayed by the pandemic. Thus, during periods of pandemic peaks and confinement, with the saturation of hospitals, the absence of staff due to the disease and the reorientation of human and financial resources towards the treatment of patients with covid-19, health professionals observed a decrease or slowdown in the activity of many hospital and outpatient services dedicated to other diseases. In France, for example, there has been a virtual interruption of surgical operations considered non-essential, such as elective knee surgery, and external consultations; a very significant decrease in all diagnostic examinations such as echocardiograms, transesophageal echocardiograms, coronary angiograms and stress tests; a decrease in the treatment of cardiovascular diseases. It seems that even nuclear medicine, although important in the treatment of certain cancers, has experienced significant declines in activity. Similarly, diagnostic procedures would also have decreased significantly, including scanners, pulmonary and bone scintigraphs, myocardial or thyroid studies. The entire policy of prevention and care has been affected by the pandemic. My questions, Minister, are very simple. First, can you tell us, as a follow-up to this diagnosis that I hope to share, what is the impact, in your opinion, of these numerous deprogrammings and procrastinations of medical acts on the current and future health of French and French people?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1304.u30	Very good question!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1304.u31	Second, do you already have an idea of the inevitable consequences on their life expectancy? Initial figures are beginning to be mentioned: what are yours and what is the Government's analysis of this issue? Finally, do you know exactly how many people have lost great chances of healing due to a diagnosis that is too late?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1304.u32	All transparency!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1304.u33	[[Mrs. Agnes Thill applauds]] You will understand, Minister, the pandemic has obviously created new problems; colleagues have raised the paradox of what has been done: we have sought to save lives, but it would be regrettable that these efforts have made it more difficult or impossible to protect other lives. Minister, we await your answers to these fundamental questions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1304.u34	Mr David Corceiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1304.u35	The world's health crisis is unprecedented. It has affected all parts of our society and our economy, and it has highlighted the intimate links between the health of human beings, the health of animals and our planet. Every country, every government, every citizen has had to face a new and challenging situation. Today, we are starting together a necessary reflection to assess the Government's trade-offs in the context of the health crisis and to anticipate their effects on the health and life expectancy of the French. This approach of evaluation and control is important for our democracy: it is a question of apprehensively understanding the consequences of decisions in order to improve the functioning of the State services for all French people. The policy of the Government and of France as a whole has been dictated by the general interest and the imperative of safeguarding every life. Every Frenchman counted, every loss was deplored. We have lost more than 100,000 French for our country. The decisions made saved hundreds of thousands of lives. The central administration has consistently taken decisions, with the priority being to protect the lives of every citizen. The Government has been responsive and lucid throughout the crisis. However, we have encountered difficulties because the general interest and the protection of lives have had to prevail in the face of full freedom. Many factors have affected the psychological health of our fellow citizens: isolation, especially of students and residents of EHPAD, financial insecurity, fear of the virus on a daily basis, loss of relatives, successive confinements, deprivation of individual freedoms, closure of life and entertainment establishments and domestic violence. The inventory is long! It is important to recall the diversity of situations and difficulties experienced by everyone. To all, I want to show my deep appreciation for their patience and resilience to the restrictions that have certainly saved millions of lives. The difficulties often appeared insurmountable, but we all held together. The health crisis must also enable us to become aware of important elements of our health system. As such, it is important to point out that the hesitations at the beginning of the crisis led to a sharp questioning and rapid recovery: indeed, while the beginning of the crisis was marked by a lack of masks and essential equipment for caregivers, there was a real awareness of the hospital. This institution has been an essential pillar in resisting the virus; She held it. With it, millions of healthcare professionals supported France and cared for their fellow citizens in sometimes difficult conditions. In the summer of 2020, the Minister of Solidarity and Health launched the Ségur de la santé in order to work, in consultation with the sector, towards a frank revalorisation. The latter was illustrated by strong measures: raising the salary of 1.5 million health professionals; increase in the remuneration of trainees, medical and in-house students, as well as that of hospital physicians at the beginning and end of their careers. In sum, an additional €9 million has been invested to reward these heroes of the crisis and highlight their dedication. Last March, the investment plan for the public hospital was presented: it plans to spend EUR 19 billion on it in the next decade. This amount represents twice the total investment of the last 20 years; It is accompanied by an ambitious programme of support for large-scale health projects and the recovery of the debt of health institutions in financial difficulty and wishes to generate the policy of autonomy of the territories. The crisis has been a huge obstacle, but it has enabled us to improve our health care system and to develop essential professionals; the hospital has been upgraded, which has made it possible to anticipate further the organisation and resistance to health threats. It has also paved the way for a better consideration of the psychological and mental health of the French, with students and young people being minimized until now. [[Mrs Valérie Petit applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is now necessary to identify the impact of the measures taken in the context of the health crisis on the health and life expectancy of our citizens. This debate will make it possible to assess the consequences of the crisis in order to remedy and, above all, prevent them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1304.u36	Mr Alain David has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1304.u37	According to figures from Public Health France, since the beginning of the health crisis, 5.7 million of our citizens have been infected with the disease and 110420 have died of covid-19. This assessment obviously does not take into account the loss of chances for other patients who could not be treated for another pathology, nor the increase in mental health-related disorders – alcoholism, suicide – after several confinements. However, according to the WHO, even if, as elsewhere, the estimated epidemic is underestimated – it is closer to 140,000 deaths – we can pride ourselves on having one of the best health surveillance systems, as the actual burden of disease assessed by the World Health Organization is very close to the official record. The magnitude of the assessment will not, however, mention all indirect losses, all invisible victims, or all the sequelae of long-covid victims, who are inadequately cared for; Above all, this figure will not do justice to the colossal efforts made by an entire country, starting with its caregivers, to contain it, nor will it account for all these constraints which have weighed and still weigh on the French and French. In any case, according to data from John Hopkins University, reported to the population, the cumulative mortality of covid-19 in our country is 8% higher than that of Sweden, for example; Australians are 40 times less likely to have died of covid than French and New Zealanders, 270 times less. I will not go back to the spectacular example of Taiwan, which I have already presented in a question to the Government. "Prevent rather than heal. Everyone knows the wisdom of the word. Unfortunately, we reported it at every stage of the pandemic: we did not live up to the masks; we paid for hospital bed closures that continue scandalously during the epidemic tide; Nor have we succeeded in the so-called "test, trace, isolate" strategy, nor in the control of travellers. Similarly, the Government has obviously too often ignored the views of epidemiologists when they stated a beastly reality: an exponential phenomenon is more effectively combated in its early days, when the curve is flat, or almost flat. To recognize that 110,000 of our fellow citizens have died is also to open our eyes to a cruel reality: we have not been equal in the face of covid. He killed more in disadvantaged neighbourhoods, in small and overcrowded habitats, among front-line and second-line workers, where co-morbidities are present, where medicine is already struggling to reach and protect the most fragile. We reported this sadly during the debate on 4 May: the State's action towards the most precarious during the health crisis was not up to the level. Even more worrying, it is these same precarious workers, the same front-line workers, the same disadvantaged neighbourhoods that will find themselves most threatened by the economic and social crisis that risks following the health crisis. The young people have sacrificed so much by the effect of the measures taken for the general safeguard! The freezing of many sectors of activity has added another crisis to all those in the territories of relegation where all the problems of the country have been piled up. In the United States, President Biden has taken note of this danger of social collapse by, inter alia, providing unconditional assistance to the most exposed in a gigantic emergency plan. This unparalleled protection for decades is logically the result of the choice that has been mostly shared around the planet: placing solidarity above any other consideration. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] In France, as in the United States and elsewhere, this decision implies a new responsibility: not just to repair the immediate damage of the disaster, but, far beyond that, to close the gaping cracks that the 110,000 dead have revealed in our society.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1304.u38	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1304.u39	First of all, I would like to thank the Group of the European People's Party for the organisation of this debate on a fundamental subject, and I am convinced that national representation has a place to join it. The space for discussion that we open today is necessary; It must allow us to assess calmly, far from any emotional register, the consequences of the protection measures implemented for a little more than a year and a half in our country, but also, beyond the national focus, in the world. But, if we are to stay away from the emotional register, we must not fall into a cold analysis that overlays the short and long term by comparing "extended lives" and "wasted lives", to use the words of a forum that has flourished. I will not repeat here the chronology of crisis management. Much has been said in the various speeches, to which I would like to reply in this opening remarks. With regard to the assessment of the impact of the measures taken by our country, I think I can say, without risk of error, Mrs Petit, that we are at this stage the only country in the world to have carried out an independent international survey that encompasses all the elements of the crisis, that is, health, logistical and organizational decisions, but also economic and educational decisions. This is the Pittet mission's report: a very versatile mission made up of well-known experts, some French, other foreigners, who were able to work for months in complete freedom and who had access to all the data of the management of the French crisis. They have made a completely independent report, which is critical in places – that is quite normal – and which is a little less so in others. I would also like to remind you, for having participated, that two parliamentary committees were formed early enough to assess, even as we were dealing with the crisis, how we were doing our work. You are quoting the report of a liberal think tank whose analysis is interesting, but whose principles I do not accept. Finally, the question underlying this type of report is: can we quantify the cost of a year of human life? Is a year of human life saved on one side worth more or less than a year of human life saved on the other? A country risked answering such a question, years ago: it was England, which defined the quality-adjusted life year, QALY, which gives monetary value to a healthy year of life; The protocol is still in progress, and they use this indicator to determine the price of the drugs they are willing to repay. We're very far from it. To tell you everything, I am very anti-QALY: we must not ask ourselves the question of the price of a human life, and it is very difficult to compare lives that have been saved in the emergency and the life expectancy that can be lost in the long term. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] I also want to reply to Mrs Agnes Thill on an important subject, although he is somewhat out of the context of this debate. The period is rather troubled for those who hold public office, it will not have escaped you; You regularly tweet to condemn the fact that elected officials may be victims of violence. I am convinced that the violence sometimes directed against elected officials or in society – and to which the French are exposed almost wherever they go in their daily lives – is exacerbated, too, by certain public statements. When you say, in front of me, in the Chamber, that the reason why we took measures to isolate the elderly in EHPAD during the crisis was to cover us criminally against a legal risk, you are covered by parliamentary immunity, you are justified in saying anything you want, but I would like to tell you that I find it unworthy. Madam Member, I don't know what you were doing 20 years ago, but let's face it, I was an EHPAD caregiver at night for several years. I devoted the first part of my professional life to caring for elderly people who are losing their autonomy in EHPAD. Then I chose a particular medical discipline, neurology. Do you know what we're doing in neurology? Care is given to elderly people who have lost their autonomy and are very ill. So you have the right to think what you want, but I find it extremely serious, especially in the current context, to make such remarks,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1304.u40	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1304.u41	... because they hate the political class, of which I regret to tell you that you are a part. If the decision to isolate older people from EHPAD was made in the first wave, I have already had the opportunity to say here that this was the most difficult decision to make. It wasn't to cover a legal risk. That's because I took the trouble to call the directorates of EHPAD-type establishments abroad,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1304.u42	We'll talk about it again, EHPADs!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1304.u43	...where the wave hit even harder than in France, especially in Spain, which experienced a much greater wave of deaths in EHPAD than ours; I spoke to group directors, in the public or private sector, who were extremely moved by what they had experienced, who urged us to take measures of isolation and protection. Because when the virus entered certain establishments – we are then in the spring of 2020 – it will not kill two people, nor five people; He can kill thirty or forty of them in the week. I know your fierce commitment to life, no matter what it takes – I don't think you're a euthanasia supporter. But consider taking the risk of letting the virus circulate in an EHPAD once it has entered, let it contaminate the elderly, and happen that can, it's worse than anything. It was a difficult decision; I am not saying that it has been applied everywhere as it should be, but it was a decision to protect and save lives, and I claim it here. If we hadn't taken it, there would have been a lot more deaths.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1304.u44	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1304.u45	Mr Castellani, you asked a number of questions, including one about the difficulty of using abortion during the crisis period. Very quickly, I made important orders regarding access to abortion to take account of this situation, including a decree that extended the abortion period by abortive pill for young women and made it possible by telemedicine from start to finish, i.e. the first consultation, the follow-up consultation and the administration of the prescription took place by telemedicine in order to avoid young women sometimes minors being forced to tell their parents why they were going out in full confinement. We have made a succession of decisions so that no one is embarrassed in their journey. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] I wanted to reply to Mrs Obono, but she left the Chamber; You'll forgive me for not answering her. When you ask a question, you try to stay for the answer. Mr President Chassaigne, you have dealt with a number of issues, two of which are fundamental, and I agree that particular attention must be paid to mental health and long covid. On mental health, all surveys in France, Europe and around the world indicate that fear of the epidemic, loss of loved ones, the unknown situation, containment measures and fear of losing one's job or activity...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1304.u46	Is it up to the minister to answer like that? What a condescendence!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1304.u47	... – not to mention school and university, which I should have mentioned first – obviously had a significant psychological impact on the populations concerned. We have put in place many mechanisms to try to help people in difficulty and to maintain an offer of mental health care. We have launched a Green Number and created positions of psychologists in the public sector – I'm sure you're sensitive to it. However, no one said that would be enough, and we will continue to work on access to mental health care. There are "Psych checks" for children and students. More broadly, the National Mental Health and Psychiatry Facilities desired by the President of the Republic, which will be held in the coming weeks or months, will make it possible to propose an ambitious reform for public health and psychiatry, particularly in the public sector. I come to the question of long covids. Mrs Patricia Mirallès is very involved with the associations concerned, which I have had the opportunity to receive as well. We don't know everything about long covid. We do not know everything about what causes persistent symptoms beyond several weeks. Clinical, basic and applied research projects are being carried out, particularly in French hospitals. I have had the opportunity to go there several times, as has the President of the Republic. The presence of so-called dysautonomic disorders is suspected in healthy young people, who still have a heart rate of one hundred and fifteen pulses per minute at rest. Some people retain sequelae such as anosmia or aagueusia – loss of taste or smell – which can be mitigated by rehabilitation. Others have retained psychological sequelae. Still others were simply very tired, even exhausted, even suffering from concentration disorders, and gradually recovered. We structure care channels and networks. All health authorities – the High Health Authority (HAS) but also all possible and conceivable medical colleges – have issued recommendations to help these people and to offer them appropriate rehabilitation, especially with regard to effort rehabilitation. This requires quite specific and precise physiotherapy, as well as psychological support, as these people are often at a standstill after several weeks or months of illness. We are beginning to observe interesting recovery rates. We don't have enough time to give you all the statistics yet. However, it should be noted that the World Health Organization (WHO) spent a whole day on this issue about two months ago, and that France had, by far, the largest follow-up register for patients with long covid. This monitoring concerns almost 40,000 people in France, compared with a few hundred in some of our neighbours in southern Europe. We continue to structure networks and learn long covids; We won't let anyone go.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1304.u48	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1304.u49	Mireille Robert also raised the issue of the impact of the crisis on mental health. I repeat: the National Mental Health and Psychiatry Assembly will be an opportunity to return to it. I have a thought and, more importantly, a special attention at all times for the younger audiences, the students, who have lived a year absolutely out of standard, very difficult. Several Members also mentioned the problem of non-use of care. During the first confinement, we experienced a very significant decrease in hospitalizations for stroke or infarction. However, if one can understand that one is less likely to go to an emergency during a pandemic when one suffers from a problem that might otherwise be solved, when one is paralyzed by a stroke, one must go to the emergency room or call the UAS. Scientists have not yet found an explanation for this phenomenon. However, we could have conversely imagined an increase in the number of such accidents in such a period of collective stress. We deployed, very quickly and without delay, everything we could to allow French people who could no longer move to a consultation, including telemedicine. One figure, to convince yourself: in three days, we went from 10,000 teleconsultations a week to a million. I have authorized tele-consultations with nurses, and re-education with Kinesitherapy by interposed screens – through Skype, WhatsApp, and all possible and imaginable applications. I am not saying that this has been enough, but it has made it possible to compensate for part of the decline in demand. I also wanted to answer MP Patrick Hetzel, but he left. Maybe I'll have a chance to do it if he comes back. I have also given a response, at least in part, to MP David Corceiro. Finally, Mr David, all the international expertise says: comparing per capita mortality from countries around the world, comparing countries in Asia, North America or South America with European countries is tantamount to denying the wave operation of the pandemic. A very important global infectious outbreak occurred in Western Europe, west of Germany: Italy, Spain, France, and other countries such as Switzerland, Belgium and the Netherlands were very affected. The second wave has affected Eastern Europe much more. Germany then paid a heavy price. Other countries such as Romania and Serbia, which had almost been spared by the first wave, have experienced a much stronger wave than we have seen in France. Subsequently, during the summer period, the pandemic hit very strongly in the southern hemisphere as a result of the southern winter – in South Africa, Brazil, or Australia, where there was a resurgence of cases. The virus was circulating on the planet in such a way that at the same time it touched clusters of sometimes very distinct countries – so France could be hit at the same time as the United States. You cannot compare per capita mortality from one country to another, as not all countries have been affected in the same way by epidemic waves. On the other hand, it is relevant to compare the mortality rates of all countries in the same geographical segment. You will see that, on this point, France does not have to blush, even if we have recorded very many deaths. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM groups and Action ens]] As we speak, the covid-19 has caused millions of deaths on the planet. There are still people who die every day. We have to keep ourselves from comments that are too peremptory, and avoid comparing to each other. In September, I was told with great enthusiasm about the very good management of the health crisis by Italy, which avoided the second wave. Three weeks later, Italy was buried under the virus and forced to put patients under oxygen in their car while waiting for a hospital bed. We must always be careful. The last comparison between France and another country was with England. That was three weeks ago in this House. But England now counts almost twice as many patients a day as we do. Of course, I hope that the situation will improve. You see, the virus doesn't do politics.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1304.u50	Mr M'jid El Guerrab has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1304.u51	I thank the Minister for his answers. The debate, initiated by my colleague Valérie Petit on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, is welcome. He's going beyond partisan eyes. Each of us questions the assessment of the impact of the measures we have taken. The fact that a six-year-old girl like mine wears a mask all day inevitably has psychological consequences. Mr Minister, as you know, the Action Together Group has always supported the courageous steps that the Government and you have taken. We are here to ask a question: what are the psychological impacts of the crisis on the health and life expectancy of the French? They are still unknown, we need to evaluate them. We must ask ourselves, for example, about the consequences of the observed increase in addictive behaviour on our common life and on living together. [[Applause on the benches of the Action ens group]] My question is about future confidence in vaccines. We have confined, disfellowshiped, sometimes there have been delays on a particular vaccine. The French and French abroad, who represent 3.5 million people, have been told that they need to find local solutions to get vaccinated. They have therefore been vaccinated in their State of residence – I thank all the States that have accepted it. Since the Sinopharm vaccine is not recognised by the European Medicines Agency (EMA), they are not now considered to be vaccinated to return to France. This creates a lot of misunderstanding and anger. Mr Minister, I look forward to your reply to this because, unlike us, Spain and Greece recognize Sinopharm as a WHO-approved vaccine.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1304.u52	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1304.u53	Since you are talking about vaccination, I could, if I was a teaser, note that the campaign is obviously going well since it has not been commented on. In general, when one does not talk about a subject in the Chamber, it means that things are going well. In fact, we have over 30 million first-time French citizens. That was the bold, ambitious goal we set in December. The confidence of the French in vaccination continues to grow, week after week. France was at the bottom of the pack in this area. In public opinion surveys, vaccination intentions had fallen to almost 40%. However, we are now among the leading countries in this field, with a vaccination intent rate of more than 80 per cent. The French are a people who think. He sometimes doubts, he criticizes, but he is able to change his mind, and also to say when things are going well. As far as Sinopharm is concerned, it is recognised by WHO, but not by EMA. There is no mysterious reason for this. Manufacturers of all vaccines recognized by EMA have submitted an application for registration, on presentation of their scientific and biological data, in full transparency. Independent experts from several European countries were able to decide on the safety and efficacy of the product. Some pharmaceutical groups have submitted applications, others have not. Some late applications are still under consideration. It seems to me very complicated to recognize the validity of a vaccine that has not been approved by EMA. Moreover, European countries do not use this vaccine – neither Germans, Italians, nor Spaniards. They do not vaccinate their population with it, but they observe that people from outside may have used it. The countries of Europe that have to recognise vaccines that do not have EMA registration are rather countries of the South, which expect to receive a lot of people during the summer. We are looking for European coordination on this point. I participated in the G7 of Health Ministers last week. At the moment, the position of the European Commission has not changed: vaccines are only recognised if they have been assessed, in full transparency, by the competent authorities. If the situation changes, you may get a more favourable response. I'm sorry I can't give you any satisfaction.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1304.u54	Mrs Agnes Chill has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1304.u55	As I indicated in my speech, which obviously did not please you or upset you, there are many questions about the elderly. Their situation was unworthy for a year.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1304.u56	Oh!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1304.u57	Are you aware of the number of those who have fallen into death as a result of your instructions? The rate of people vaccinated among those over the age of 65 seems to stabilize around 88 per cent. How can we exceed the 90% glass ceiling that seems to be emerging? How can we convince the remaining 10% to be vaccinated? Deprogramming operations and late detections of diseases have, of course, also caused death, indirectly attributable to the coronavirus. Similarly, they have been able to cause complications or delay management – all phenomena whose reality is still a little out of our hands since we lack accurate data to understand them. In this regard, what are the Ministry of Health's figures on the number of operations deprogrammed or repulsed due to coronavirus, the number of complications associated with these deprogrammings or late detections, and also the number of seniors in EHPAD who have been slipped because of your instructions? What is the impact of all this on the life expectancy of the French?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1304.u58	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1304.u59	I repeat, Madam Member, that my directives have saved lives! You have the right to think the opposite, to write it down and to say it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1304.u60	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1304.u61	That's your right. You have the right to say everything that goes through your head; We can all do it. The protection guidelines in the EHPADs have saved lives. Look at me, they saved lives!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1304.u62	They killed them, too!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1304.u63	The virus has sometimes entered EHPADs. If you wish, Member, we will be able to examine, in your constituency, the number of epidemic outbreaks recorded in EHPADs and the number of deaths resulting therefrom, within a few days. To hear you, we would suddenly have decided, for no reason, to prevent older people from going out and seeing their families. No, Madam Member: when a virus kills the elderly and has a high mortality rate, especially among the most vulnerable elderly people, it is said – and I am afraid to understand that this is your wish: "Well, what happens! We are trying to protect them. Yes, we have sought to protect them, and the very difficult decisions that have been made have saved lives.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1304.u64	You didn't have a relative in EHPAD!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1304.u65	We all have a loved one in EHPAD!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1304.u66	You are not wrong to emphasize an intense negative externality. Some people have let themselves die, others have lost their taste for life.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1304.u67	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1304.u68	No doubt, Congresswoman! There's no need to deny it. You are a parliamentarian and may one day seek other functions. To rule is to choose. You make decisions when you consider them to be in the right direction. You don't take them to cover yourself or to bother people! If some people have suffered from isolation, we obviously have the greatest empathy for them. Dramatic situations have been experienced daily in a large number of EHPADs. However, the situation was no less dramatic in some EHPADs I visited, which counted fifty sick people, fifteen in resuscitation and fourteen already dead. These decisions have therefore been taken in France, as in many foreign countries, and have given rise to concerted action. In particular, they have been the subject of – and I know you are sensitive to – an opinion of the National Ethics Advisory Committee (NEAC) which has proved to be in conformity.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1304.u69	Mr Bertrand Pancher has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1304.u70	My colleague Michel Castellani recalled the many health consequences of the restrictive measures taken in the context of the fight against covid-19. For my part, I would like to stress the loss of opportunity caused by the non-use of care during the health crisis and, above all, our ability to measure them and prevent their consequences. In order to assess the cessation of French care during the first confinement, health insurance conducted a survey: 60% of respondents indicated that they had not performed at least one treatment or action they needed. The study also showed a dramatic drop in so-called city care spending – a 30% drop in consultations for general practitioners and 60% for specialists – as well as an under-consumption of medicines and vaccines. The issue of screening is less immediate, but is equally worrying. How many could not be practiced? How many diseases could not be detected in time? Studies indicate cancer overmortality in the range of 6% to 20% depending on the type of cancer. We have been formulating these questions since the beginning of the crisis. Yet today, we are still struggling to assess the magnitude of the wave ahead of us. To measure the loss of opportunity caused by non-use of care, we need to have accurate indicators of follow-up, but also to know the consequences of the deprogramming of operations and treatments imposed by white plans. [[Mrs Valérie Petit applause]] Finally, we need to draw up profiles of those most affected, in order to guide public policies. Studies point in particular to women and the most socially disadvantaged. How to measure the decline in life expectancy? How can the provision of care be strengthened to prevent the recurrence of such tragedies? Are further measures envisaged in this regard?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1304.u71	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1304.u72	During the first wave, faced with the unknown and the rise of the covid -19 throughout the territory, a massive national deprogramming, in all sectors, was decided in order to release enough resuscitation beds to accommodate all the sick. This has helped to avoid hospital saturation; In this way we have not seen patients under oxygen in cars, as in some countries. During the second and third waves, deprogramming was gradual, territory by territory. Whenever resuscitation beds were needed, operating rooms were transformed into resuscitation units to accommodate all patients. Deprogramming has been much less. To those who asked me: "You said that 12,000 resuscitation beds would be available, but you are only 8,000! I have constantly explained that in order to reach the figure of 12,000 beds, it would have been necessary to deprogram all the care while the number of beds needed to care for the sick did not require it. Are you following me? You are confusing, Member: the figures you are quoting do not indicate cancer overmortality, but the deprogramming, the percentages of surgery that may have been delayed; It's not the same thing at all. We will have indicators based on transparent INSEE data one year later; They will compare overmortality through pathology studies. More than 40,000 surgical procedures were deprogrammed or postponed, particularly during the first wave: in March, 10% fewer cancer surgery procedures compared to the previous March; in April, which corresponds to the peak, 30% less. We then observed a gradual stabilization: in August, we were in balance – if I may say so. Cancer surgery activities increased by 3% in September, 5% in November and 5% in December. There is thus a catch-up effect of some of the surgery. Of course, some surgeries have not been performed. Some patients have received other types of treatments or conservative treatments to wait. We'll make all the light on the subject. To do this, we will need all the data and a little time. We follow up and, above all, we put the package in the field of screening for cancers and STIs – sexually transmitted infections; There was a decline in HIV testing during the first containment period. All this involves many efforts on the part of health professionals to catch up with what needs to be.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1304.u73	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1304.u74	According to the child psychiatrist Bruno Falissard, the number of child psychiatrists has increased by 50% since the beginning of the pandemic crisis, while the number of child psychiatrists has been divided by two in ten years. Researchers from INSERM – National Institute of Health and Medical Research – and INED – National Institute of Demographic Studies – also revealed that 13% of children aged 8 to 9 experienced socio-emotional disorders during confinement; 2% experienced sleep disorders. In addition, 24% of children from a sample of 432 households had symptoms of hyperactivity and inattention during the first confinement. However, in 2018, 12% of children and adolescents were already suffering psychologically according to the European network of children's advocates. The situation therefore does not date from yesterday or from the period of crisis; The same is true of the degraded state of child psychiatry. Three years ago, on April 17, 2019, members of the staff of the medical-psychological centre of the 19th arrondissement of Paris, of which I am the deputy, organized a day of strike and festive mobilization to raise awareness among families, children and associations about the future of their sector. In this district, where the population has increased by 20 per cent in 20 years, demand has exploded. However, many families face socio-economic difficulties that lead them to delay consultations. Paedopsychiatry is at the end of the roll: lack of means and posts; an administration which struggles to admit that in this matter, what matters is time and the connection. The 19th arrondissement team, like many others across the country, is under work. In the three medical-psychological centres in the area, the waiting time for a first appointment varies between three months and one year for adolescents; 140 children are on a waiting list in the avenue de Flanders. During their mobilization, staff called for human and material resources commensurate with the needs of the population: doubling medical and non-medical staff, adequate premises, increasing budgets for therapeutic activities and stays, training facilities, etc. These demands and claims remain highly topical. Minister, what answers do you intend to provide to professionals and especially to children and families who will need even more care?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1304.u75	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1304.u76	The crisis and confinement obviously have a health but also economic, social and educational impact on the mental health of French people, including minors. It is necessary, perhaps not to recast, but to structure the mental health and psychiatry sector much more strongly, including its public part. I referred earlier to the national foundations of mental health and psychiatry, which will soon be held under the auspices of the President of the Republic. They must bring together all the actors, especially those in the child-psychiatry sector, but not only, so that it is much stronger and stronger than it is today – not that the child-psychiatrists would not be of quality, they are, but they are not large enough and above all not enough to exercise in the public sector. You don't train a child psychiatrist in three or six months. On the other hand, solutions must be found that cannot wait. We have brought them: a "Psych check" for children, the recruitment of more than 250 psychologists in the framework of the Ségur de la santé, many of them in the CMPIJ – infanto-juvenile medical-psychological centre – training in first aid in mental health, support from the public authorities to numerous associations to help young people who are in difficulty or parents of young people in difficulty. We follow this subject with the utmost attention. For the first time in the EpiCov survey – epidemiology and living conditions related to covid -19 – conducted by Public Health France, there was a significant decrease in depressive conditions in May 2021: from 22%, we rose to 19%. The rate is still higher than that observed in previous months and years, but it shows a halt to the worsening, probably linked to the improvement of the health situation and the end of the state of emergency. The Government is, of course, doing everything to ensure that it lasts in time and that the virus does not return, but we will then have to show a strong collective resilience to heal our wounds.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1304.u77	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1304.u78	Not all of us are equal in front of the covid-19, because depending on the territory you live in and according to your profession, you will have more or less chance of crossing its route. Of course, I am thinking of my department of the Seine-Saint-Denis, which has been one of the most affected and which is still one of the least vaccinated today, despite – I recognize it easily – the efforts of the State and the communities. Not all of us are equal to the risk of enduring the effects of covid-19. It is estimated that one in ten people affected by the virus develops what is now called long covid. In the face of what they experience painfully, many patients encounter skepticism, sometimes members of the medical community, but more frequently their employers. I have a few examples in my constituency of people who end up with half-treatment without recognition of the pathology of long covid. The resolution by our colleague Patricia Mirallès, voted unanimously last February, was a first step – which we welcome – towards the recognition of this pathology. [[Patricia Mirallès applauds]] But more needs to be done: first, the number of patients involved must be precisely recorded; Second, they need to be better accompanied, which requires the recognition of long-term covid for what it is, that is, a long-term condition (LTD) eligible for 100% health care coverage through sickness insurance. Are you considering making a decree to this effect after the advice of the High Health Authority? It also involves the recognition of covid-19 as an occupational disease when the patient has been infected because of the nature of his work, which exposes him particularly to the virus. I am thinking in particular of the employees in the first and second lines, whom we have applauded and which we must not forget. Finally, it goes – as you mentioned in your speech – by encouraging research into the possible causes and treatments of long covids. On these issues, what are the intentions of the Government?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1304.u79	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1304.u80	According to the figures available to me, it was estimated in May 2021 that about 750,000 people were subject to persistent symptoms. Some of these symptoms are related to severe pulmonary damage; This is less the long covid as such than the injuries associated with respiratory distress syndrome. Patients suffer from complications resulting from resuscitation, while others retain symptoms such as loss of taste and smell. To remedy the latter, the re-education in oto-rhino-laryngology, by means of tests allowing to re-learn to feel, gives surprisingly very positive results – so much the better! Other persistent symptoms include joint pain, fatigue, concentration and sleep disorders, difficulty in exertion, etc. For some patients, functional explorations – lung scanner, electrocardiogram, complete cardiac check-up – do not show any lesions; There is no anatomical explanation for their symptoms. Other patients need appropriate and specialized rehabilitation: I'm thinking of a nurse at the Foch Hospital in Suresnes, a marathon woman who has been in excess of 100 pulses per minute at rest for months. All people who are or will be able to accompany all these patients must be found and trained very quickly; It's an obligation. With regard to ALD management, some patients may benefit from it when they have lesions that are known to have very long sequelae for years. According to the specialists I have consulted, more than 50% of people with dysautonomy syndromes, with shortness of breath and very high fatigue, return to normal basal state after rehabilitation; Therefore, ALD is not required. Care must be adapted, cared for by social security and multi-professional care. For patients who will retain lasting sequelae, especially the very long duration – especially people with respiratory sequelae with sometimes fibrosis lesions – the common law provides for the management of ALD.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1304.u81	Mrs Sereine Mauborgne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1304.u82	The health system has stood up to successive waves. At the economic and social level, most of our citizens have accepted the requested efforts with respect, courage and resilience. The debate invites us, at the initiative of the Group of the European People's Party, to assess – with too little hindsight – the health consequences of the pandemic on life expectancy. The increase in the number of deaths resulted in a five- to six-month decline in the life expectancy of the French. The health crisis has a major and lasting effect on the consumption of care, on the physical and mental health of the population, in particular of the most vulnerable populations, due to the priority given to certain pathologies, as well as the lack of recourse to care for fear of contamination, or the desire not to overload the health system. After these introductory remarks, I would like to refer to the treatment of cancer treatments. As you said, Minister, the number of chemotherapy has decreased by 3.2% in the first five months of 2020; activity is estimated to have decreased by 20% compared to 2019. In 2020, during the pink October operation, Professor Axel Kahn – whose remarkable commitment I would like to pay tribute to in a very difficult period of his life – warned about the delays in the diagnosis of breast cancer. Considering that delays of two to three months did not normally lead to consequences, he was concerned about five to six months' delay, which resulted in loss of luck, which, alas, could also be lost lives. Some screening centres have been closed. Was the delay caught? The figures are worrying: they show a 10% decrease in mammograms and a 20% decrease in colonoscopy. In 2021, the geneticist emeritus again alerted us to the consequences of the deprogramming of operations due to the covid -19: "thousands and thousands of people... will die of their cancers" within five to six years. Nor do we have figures on the painful subject of screening and follow-up of paediatric cancers during the pandemic. Note that the parents' houses were reopened at your request, Minister. To conclude on a more joyful note,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1304.u83	Good thing she's here!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1304.u84	...I do not tire of stressing how proud I am of the unprecedented effort of the Government, which admires the courage and strength of health professionals, including nurses. In the city, in the hospital, in the private sector, they are mobilized to limit the effects of the health crisis;...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1304.u85	It's two minutes, not four, there's rules!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1304.u86	... they have been able to implement innovative devices with agility, to maintain the maximum cost of care activities. Even today, not counting their hours, they are at work to vaccinate and catch up with deprogrammed care.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1304.u87	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1304.u88	You quoted Professor Axel Kahn. Many cancer screening activities had to be suspended; They were less than three months old. The recovery was quite rapid. In addition, like the Prime Minister, at press conferences, I called on the French to maintain their mammography or colonoscopy screening appointment, or to carry out the testing of sexually transmitted infections – as I referred to HIV earlier. You're right, the screening has declined; Some structures were closed, for more or less long periods, and fear and confinement did not induce them to leave their homes. However, we have an indicator that I find interesting, if not reassuring. It's based on pharmaceutical records. By order, I authorized pharmacists to renew the expired prescriptions for patients with chronic diseases. Pharmacists did not notice a drop in prescriptions: for pathologies such as diabetes and hypertension, for example, patients had less consultation with their doctor, but they clearly continued their treatment. In the surgical field, we really made cancer a priority, telling hospitals that if they had to keep a surgery activity, it had to be that one. This is even more true in paediatrics: this is a very specific area, and I sincerely believe that the postponements, if any, were a few days or weeks and that the delay was then caught up. For the rest, we'll take stock when we get further back.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1304.u89	Mrs. Annie Vidal has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1304.u90	The health crisis that we have been going through for over a year has led us to apply sometimes difficult restrictive measures. Thank you, Minister, for having been able to take them at the right time. A very large majority of the French respected them,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1304.u91	All right?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1304.u92	...with courage and resilience. As of March 2020, restrictive measures had a rapid effect on the virus, the number of serious cases and deaths related to covid-19 decreased. We avoided hospital saturation and relieved the health care teams. In April 2020, the École des hautes études en santé publique estimated that the first month of containment had prevented 60,000 deaths of covid-19 in France, or about 220,000 deaths avoided for the entire epidemic year. Yet, the authors of the above-mentioned report, entitled "Years of Life Earned, Years of Life Lost", believe that confinement has destroyed more years of life than it has saved and emphasize a generational asymmetry in favour of youth. This approach underestimates the importance that the French attach to protecting the health of all and to the principle of solidarity, which remains at the heart of our approach. It is true that confinement has caused delays in care, has affected mental health and the quality of life; More broadly, it has had an impact on employment and youth. We are aware of the effects on the population as a whole; The Government has taken concrete steps to remedy this situation. In the context of the evaluation, to which I know you attach, how can we take into account the need to protect the most vulnerable audiences, such as the elderly and people with disabilities? How can we assess the health implications, for some who are still invisible to date, for young people?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1304.u93	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1304.u94	You mentioned the report "Years of Life Earned, Years of Life Lost". The think tank that is at the origin omits a large number of parameters. It is a liberal body; If unimpeded liberalism had saved many lives during the epidemic, we would have noticed it. A very strong interventionism of the state and public structures was necessary, in France and abroad. Imagine an increase from 50 to 100,000 cases a day, then from 100 to 200000; from 1000 to 2000 patients admitted daily to resuscitation, then to 3000 and then to 4000. Imagine that hospitals are completely overcrowded, sorting out people, that patients over the age of 60 are no longer admitted to resuscitation, are no longer intubated, die outside hospitals. Some countries have approached this situation. They had claimed that they would not confine – all eventually did so. A report must evaluate with intelligence and impartiality, seek the counter-model showing that we would have done better by acting otherwise. In part of 2020, two thirds of the world's inhabitants were confined. All parameters must therefore be taken into account. I strongly dispute some of the elements of the report, particularly with regard to the development of poverty. The authors assure that there would be an additional 1 million poor people. A multitude of social shock absorbers have been installed; French social protection, social security, which was not created by the Government but dates from the day after the Second World War, prevented many people from losing their jobs; no one has been obliged to pay for his care; No one had to give up being tested or vaccinated because it was too expensive. Of course, this social protection entails expenses, but it saved a lot of years of life, for people who would have fallen ill and perhaps died, for those who would have lost their jobs. I am not even talking about the policy of "whatever it costs", particularly partial unemployment. To the free generation think tank analysis, I prefer that of the Pittet mission. It is not tender with regard to certain aspects, which it has rightly denounced, but it accurately compares the situation in France and the situation abroad.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1304.u95	Mr Maxime Minot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1304.u96	For this debate on the assessment of the impact of the measures taken in the context of the health crisis on the health and life expectancy of the French, I am going back a few years, by recouffing my medical-psychological aid cap in EHPAD. Unfortunately, during this crisis, we have seen many violations of the fundamental rights of residents. What suffering have they endured, deprived of their family ties? What about respect for dignity? Is it not abuse to prevent our elders from aerating and meeting their loved ones? I am not blaming the EHPADs, who have done their utmost in this period of crisis, and have only implemented your decisions. Moreover, no effort and reinforcement of medical and social personnel have been involved in these drastic decisions. I take this opportunity to greet all the caregivers who have mobilized and tried to accompany our elders as best they can. Has the crisis not revealed certain limits, some flaws of our system? At a time when the project to rebuild the EHPAD of Clermont-de-l'Oise, in my constituency, is emerging, my question concerns the future, rather than the outcome of this crisis: how can we bring our reception structures into a more humane and dignified era of a country like France, which must respect its elders?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1304.u97	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1304.u98	We could have a long and interesting philosophical debate, Mr.Minot, about whether it is respect for people that save their lives, depending on the means used, and how far we can go to achieve it. Your question concerns the evolution of EHPADs, in particular medical and social accompaniment. During the crisis, the links between the medico-social field and the health field were very different and of varying quality, depending on the level of governance. For example, we have decided to create channels of direct care and hospitalization for people from EHPAD, in hospital centres with dedicated units. Fortunately, these instructions were most often applied. In the third wave, follow-up care and rehabilitation services from the private sector have even been transformed to accommodate covid + patients from EHPAD, with more appropriate medical care, because doctors in these facilities are more likely to deal with patients who are losing their autonomy. How can this sector evolve? A bill may be introduced, with many proposals.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1304.u99	We've been waiting a long time!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1304.u100	The Segur of Health grants an upgrade to caregivers in EHPADs; It provides for the allocation of €2 billion to the digital health sector, much of which is dedicated to the medical and social sector and to EHPAD, because the crisis has also shown that digital tools are essential to break distances and accompany care. Governance reform is under way, as well as contracting between the State and the departments and support for home help. We have taken the turn that our country has been waiting for a very long time, towards more appropriate care, in order to keep people at home longer and that EHPAD is a later solution, for those who would really have no choice. Discussions have begun, funding is even planned. We will now take the time to consider the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1304.u101	Mr David Corceiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1304.u102	The pandemic that our country has been facing for over a year has seriously shaken its health system. If the latter had overcome the crisis by means of a remarkable mobilization of all its members, it had to be preserved by applying drastic measures – successive confinements, curfews, restrictions on social contacts and closures of places welcoming the public. At a time when these restrictions are being lifted gradually, and when our compatriots will be able to resume their lives, it is necessary to question the consequences of such a crisis on the mental health of the French, in the short, medium and long term. The anxiety of depressive people has increased considerably over the past year, and many studies have shown this. Has public health France conducted a comprehensive and accurate assessment of this state of affairs? On 8 June, an OECD report – Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development – stated that its member States should urgently increase investments in the quality of mental health care. In our country, psychiatric services have long been neglected and underfunded. How do you intend to strengthen this sector that is essential to our health care system, at a time when it seems to be most in need?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1304.u103	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1304.u104	I have already answered several times this evening to questions about mental health – alas, yours comes after. We have monthly measurement indicators, according to which life satisfaction has declined, while depressive states, stress and tension have increased, for reasons that combine. We have taken emergency measures, organized communications campaigns, created telephone numbers, and supported associations. Communities have played their part. We recruited psychologists from the medical-psychological centres, developed medical-psychological emergency cells (CUMPs), which also helped the caregivers, who were subjected to intense stress throughout the period. We created the "Psych check" for teenagers and students. We will further strengthen our action in the near future, following the foundations of mental health and psychiatry, which will soon be held.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1304.u105	Mr Alain David has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1304.u106	After the health crisis, the social crisis will affect the most precarious, the first and second line workers, the inhabitants of disadvantaged neighbourhoods and young people. Once again, the situation will lead to a growing mirror of inequalities in French society. In addition to enduring the health and economic effects of the pandemic, our society has acted as an indicator of the mechanisms of exclusion and poverty that break the pandemic. In this violent crisis, a triple mechanism is at work. By paralyzing the economy and the dynamics of integration, the pandemic initially prevented people in precarious situations from getting out of it, destabilizing all the social relations and collective structures that support them. It then precipitated thousands of employees and self-employed with already precarious status into poverty. Finally, and this is a shock, it has weighed heavily on college students, high school students, young people without jobs or training, without status – all our young people – at a turning point in their lives, with perhaps harmful consequences in the long term. Faced with this situation, some presidents of departmental councils, including that of the Gironde, and the mayor of Paris recently affirmed their willingness to open up the benefit of the RSA to young people aged 18 to 25 and to experience a basic income. I share their analysis. France has always had the audacity of social innovation. Today, they call on the Government to be faithful to our social history and to allow them to experiment in their territory with new solutions to accompany our fellow citizens. Is the Government prepared to trust the local action of these departments, which, because of their social and territorial action, can be best placed to combat the crisis?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1304.u107	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1304.u108	At the end of the health crisis, I really do not believe that granting a dry RSA to young people between the ages of 18 and 25 is a satisfactory answer for them; Indeed, youth aspires to something else. If the RSA had been a model of success in integration, we would know that. You're talking about the departments, Congressman; We are working with the inter-ministerial delegate for the prevention and the fight against poverty to contract between the State and the departments in terms of monitoring, return to employment and support in the training of the beneficiaries of the RSA. Their situations bear witness to a very great heterogeneity! On the other hand, solutions must be offered to young people. I am thinking of the "one young person, one solution" plan, which, as you know, has 7 billion euros to enable young people to enter the labour market and facilitate their employment, but we are also working, at the request of the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister, with Elizabeth Borne and other ministers concerned, on solutions that would enable young people in difficulty to have not only their own income but above all their personal support. This is essential because it is not just a question of giving them a social minimum: they must be allowed to enter the labour market or to benefit from training, for example in the context of second chance school or apprenticeship. [[Ms. Sereine Mauborgne applauds]] You're nodding your head, MP, but when you're eighteen, nineteen, or twenty, you're not dreaming of the RSA. You have to stop lying: you dream of training, of a job, of a job! Simply giving a social minimum for any account balance is – forgive me – almost cynical. It is necessary for us to work on the issue of income, but the first cause of poverty in our country is unemployment, and the first of solidarity, employment!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1304.u109	Mr Sebastien Chenu has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1304.u110	After 16 months of crisis, we focus on assessing the relevance of the public policies that have been carried out on the covid-19. In so doing, we also, of course, assess the acts missed by the Government; Their list is long and it was drawn up tonight by many of our colleagues. These failed acts have sacrificed sometimes our economy, sometimes our freedom, often your credibility. Is it necessary to invoke a umpteenth time the poor image of a France that did not have enough masks, or even the fiasco by which France, the country of Pasteur, veiled its face without having the audacity to embark on the international race for the vaccine? Is it worth recalling that the Government has tried to abolish the premiums of the caregivers of the North and that, without the intervention of several personalities, mayor of Lille or deputies of the National Rally, they may still be waiting for them? Finally, there is no better illustration of the general insight than the difficulty of obtaining sessions with a psychiatrist or psychologist, yet promised by the "Psych check". From now on, the French want to know: what are we doing to prevent a possible future hell? Is there a national pandemic prevention plan, including this time a sufficient stock of equipment to prevent errors such as those committed in March 2020? At the same time, we can no longer rely on traditional approaches to public policy evaluation. Consideration should be given to a comprehensive definition of health that covers all aspects of the well-being of the French. The various measures taken to stop the spread of covid-19 have had dramatic consequences, including the psychological distress of our young people, but also sexual violence, scams or deliberate assaults, which the three confinements unfortunately blew up. These elements must be taken into account. Finally, the crisis of the covid-19 has brought more than a million of our compatriots into poverty. How do you plan to deepen psychological, socio-economic and managerial follow-up following the emergence of these forms of physical, social and psychological insecurity?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1304.u111	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1304.u112	Member, I hear some criticisms, some questions – for once! – but no proposals or solutions. At the same time, I'm going to be – forgive me – a little brutal, but I don't trust those who are experiencing French problems to identify solutions. [[Mr Sébastien Chenu protested]] You make many criticisms about our crisis management; You've been doing it all along and it's your right. I note that the Members of your sensitivities have not voted for any of the measures taken to protect the French, whether they are health care – curfew, state of emergency or confinement – economic – partial unemployment or "no matter what" – educational or social. You voted nothing and when you were there, you voted against it. I therefore propose that you write a small note on what you would have done in our place; If you wish, we will then study it together. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] As to how to take account of the social, economic and educational impact of the crisis, it was the subject, Mr President, of the debate which brought us together almost two hours this evening; I think I have answered many of these questions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1304.u113	The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-14-O1304.u114	Next meeting, tomorrow, at 9 a.m.: Oral questions without debate. The meeting is adjourned.
