ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1040.u1	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the second part of the finance bill for 2022 (No. 4482, 4524).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1040.u2	This afternoon, the Assembly began its examination of the appropriations relating to State Council and Control (No. 4524, vol. III, annex 9), the public authorities (No. 4524, vol. III, annex 31), the direction of the Government's action and the budget annex Official publications and administrative information (No. 4524, vol. III, annex 14), stopping at the representatives of the groups. Mrs Maud Petit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1040.u3	The schedules to the Finance Bill (FPL) for 2022 detail the amount of appropriations by allocation in a clear and precise manner. They shall contain all the information required so that everyone can form an opinion and decide in a relevant way on the vote of the appropriations to be allocated. The public authorities mission shows that, for the financial year 2021, the functioning of the Presidency of the Republic was less affected than the previous year by the health crisis. As early as the spring, redeployments from travel credits have led to a plethora of investment credits, enabling new modernisation projects to be launched by the end of this year. Performance levers have also been identified and concrete results have already been achieved. In addition, a number of projects contributing to environmental conservation and ecological transition have been carried out with a view to influencing behaviour, which the Group of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats welcomes. As far as the National Assembly is concerned, the record is more mixed. Indeed, while the budget for 2021 fell for both operating and investment expenditures, the budget for 2022 was marked by a marked inflection due to the expenses associated with electoral renewal. Despite rising own budgetary resources, the budgetary result would be in deficit if the allocation remained unchanged. For our group, it therefore seems essential to make the establishment of multiannual budgetary programming a reality. With regard to the operation of the Senate, the total expenditure set out in the draft budget for 2022 is increasing. Investment credits are increasing, reaching a particularly high level. Our group believes that, given the decline in Senate activity during election campaigns from March to June 2022, significant sources of savings could be identified. As far as the Constitutional Council is concerned, the expenditure on its members is decreasing. The decrease is due to the absence of ex officio members currently serving on the Committee. However, other expenditures are on the increase. Staff costs are increasing due to the professionalization of the General Secretariat and the staffing requirements associated with the deployment of new projects. Current operating expenses are increasing to the same extent. The investment programme for the year 2022 focuses on the continuation of the energy saving and sustainable development plan as well as the necessary overhaul of digital tools. The budget provides for the expenses for the presidential election along the lines of the one mobilised five years earlier. It takes into account the new burdens on the Constitutional Council. The annex budget Official publications and administrative information shows that the Directorate of Legal and Administrative Information has adapted its organisation to the health crisis in order to ensure the continuity of its public service missions during this period. In 2022 it will continue to modernise its activities in order to improve the service rendered and to meet the ever-changing needs of both citizens and businesses. The proposed budget for 2022 is expected to show a positive balance. As for the mission Directorate of Government Action, for the financial year 2022 it brings together the appropriations and the posts financed by the services directly attached to the Prime Minister as well as those linked to the French presidency of the European Union, which will entail a sharp increase in the budget as was the case during the previous presidency in 2008.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1040.u4	It wasn't a presidential election year!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1040.u5	The State Council and Control mission shows that new means of action for the benefit of the Economic, Social and Environmental Council (EESC) will be declined and developed during the legislature 2021-2026, in accordance with the last reform of the institution. For its part, the new three-year programme of financial court controls will be based on a more responsive and citizen-oriented approach and will be marked by the affirmation of its international stature through the exercise of an external audit mandate of the United Nations from 1 July 2022 for six years. Finally, the administrative courts will pursue the ambitious policy of modernising their organisation and working methods. In this sense, the strengthening of the resources allocated for several years has made it possible to achieve and then to exceed the objective assigned to the administrative court of reducing to one year the average foreseeable period of judgment. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem Group and on the benches of the commissions]] The Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats Group gives their full approval to the appropriations for these missions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1040.u6	Mrs Isabelle Santiago has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1040.u7	The budgetary missions that we are looking at are addressing issues that cannot be denied because they are intended to finance the whole of our institutional structure, from Elysée to parliamentary assemblies to Matignon's services, the Constitutional Council, the Council of State and our independent administrative authorities. We must therefore pay great attention. With regard to the public authorities mission, first of all, there is a stability of appropriations, including for the Elysée, which has seen its budget stabilise at 105.3 million euros, after having increased since the beginning of the quinquennium at a rate of 6 million euros each year. The reduction efforts undertaken under the previous quinquennium to achieve the EUR 100 million target have not been continued. Stabilization occurs after an increase. We regret, moreover, the lack of precision in this budget and regret that the Court of Auditors' control of it does not answer many questions and observations on it. It is also a lack of precision that we observe, as in previous finance bills, with regard to the costs of public policy assessment missions, whether carried out by standing committees or by the Committee on Public Policy Evaluation and Monitoring (CEC). The budget allocated to this body, the Assembly's armed arm in terms of evaluation, should be detailed so that comparisons can be made with similar institutions abroad. While the CEC does not have to be ashamed of the quality of its work, its mission is essential enough for its appropriations to be significantly increased. Today, they would just exceed 100,000 euros. The Government's Directorate of Action mission is experiencing an increase of 11.95 per cent compared to the original 2019 Finance Act. The PLF for 2022 reflects the continuation of the State's IT security efforts. The National Information Systems Security Agency (ANSSI) benefits from an increase of 50 FTEs – full-time equivalents worked – after the creation of 40 FTEs – full-time equivalents – in 2021. Despite this steady increase, there is a wide heterogeneity of situations in the various ministries in the area of computer security. The novelty of this PLF for 2022 is the budget devoted to the service of vigilance and protection against foreign digital interference (VIGINUM) created by the decree of 13 July 2021 and attached to the General Secretariat of Defence and National Security (SGDSN). Blue remains evasive: regarding the 94 FTEs assigned to the MSDSN, he states that "all of these job creations will allow the service in charge of the fight against the manipulation of information to rise." Will the aim be to combat digital interference or rather to alert if such interference is detected? With regard to the Protection of Rights and Freedoms programme, which brings together eleven independent authorities, we can only note the increase in the creation of ETPs for 2022, which it receives: 53, in particular for the benefit of the National Commission on Informatics and Freedoms (CNIL). We regret, however, that, despite these developments, the National Consultative Commission on Human Rights (CNCDH) remains underfunded, even though the workload on respect for fundamental rights continues to increase. His reactivity in law-making deserves to be emphasized. Given the importance of such a mission, the creation of additional FTEs would be necessary. I come to the mission of State Council and Control. It seems essential to strengthen the financial and human resources of the National Court of Asylum (CNDA), which has to cope with the acceleration of procedures. The reform of asylum requires, inter alia, a reduction of the time limits to five months in collegiate training and to five weeks as a single judge, which is impossible. At the same time, the Court is faced with an increase in asylum applications examined by OFPRA – the French Office for the Protection of Refugees and Stateless Persons – which mechanically results in a significant increase in the number of appeals it has to deal with. It should be recalled that these untenable objectives led CNDA agents to protest by calling for a strike. In these circumstances, we can only appeal to a plethora of the budget of this jurisdiction. [[Mr. Jean-Paul Lecoq applauds]] Due in particular to the numerous inaccuracies and the lack of visibility that characterize this budget, the Socialist and Related Group will vote against the appropriations for these missions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1040.u8	Mrs Valérie Petit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1040.u9	622 days ago, on 24 March 2020, France, faced with one of the most serious epidemics in its history, showed a sense of legal innovation by creating and introducing the new exceptional state of emergency health regime. Like the state of emergency defined by the Act of 3 April 1955, this new state of emergency provides that fundamental freedoms may be restricted in order to respond quickly and effectively to an imminent and significant threat to the nation. To this end, it provides for the strengthening and expansion of the powers of the Prime Minister, the Government and the State administration, to the detriment, inter alia, of the powers of the constitutionally responsible Parliament.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1040.u10	And they didn't get embarrassed!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1040.u11	However, not all countries facing the pandemic have made the choice of a state of emergency or such significant restrictions on freedoms: Germany and the United Kingdom have mobilised the ordinary law to establish emergency measures.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1040.u12	They're democracies!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1040.u13	And even among those countries that have declared a state of alert like Spain, emergency measures have not led to a state power as exorbitant as the one we have granted.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1040.u14	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1040.u15	In France, on the contrary, under the legitimate pressure of the lives to be saved, we have given up, without really defending ourselves, to our passion, not to say to our obsession, to the state. And this one, in turn, succumbed to the Hubris, this disease in the form of an intoxication of power, which pushes to want more and more because as Montesquieu said: "It is an eternal experience that every man who has power is inclined to abuse."
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1040.u16	Give power to women!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1040.u17	[[Smile]] At the height of the crisis, this is the state that administers our daily lives even in its most intimate corners, from the family meal – no more than six – to the bedroom – no more than two. In doing so, he fulfills Tocqueville's prophecy: "Beyond [we], there rises an immense and tutelary power, which alone assumes the task of ensuring [our] enjoyment and watching over [our] fate. It is absolute, detailed, regular, predictable and soft. He would be like the paternal power if, like her, he had the purpose of preparing men for manhood; But on the contrary, he seeks only to fix them irrevocably in childhood. [...] Thus every day it makes the use of free will less useful and rarer [...] and gradually steals from every citizen until the use of himself." This power of the State, which extends over our lives and undermines the freedoms of our fellow citizens, feeds on powers abandoned by Parliament because, let us recall, a state of emergency is not an obligation but an ease and a temporary concession made by Parliament to the executive power. It is therefore expected from the latter that he will give guarantees of his ability to retain his power within acceptable limits. Thus, for the past two years, Parliament, our Parliament, in every vote on the state of emergency, has chosen to trust the Government and the State in order to regulate itself and not to give in to the hubris of power, abandoning, in the name of the health of the French, its power of control. But as you know, ladies and gentlemen, trust does not exclude control. How, therefore, should we not be pleased to see an increase in the appropriations allocated to those responsible for advising and, above all, monitoring the action of the State? to those who, for the past two years, in a certain way, have taken over from our Parliament? How can we not be happy, for example, that the appropriations allocated to administrative justice, particularly to the Council of State, which, on more than ten occasions, has been able to remind the executive of the meaning of the measure with regard to our freedoms, while our Parliament may have been a little dormant? Finally, how can we not be pleased to see the increase in the appropriations allocated to the Court of Auditors, the same one which, last June, warned about the flood of public debt, while our Parliament was very busy amending the pipes? Ladies and gentlemen, it is time to reread The Route of servitude, the prophetic work of one of the greatest liberal thinkers of our time. In 1943 Friedrich Hayek was concerned about the rise of socialist planism in Europe and already alerted us to the risk for our liberal democracies of a weakening of Parliament. The danger of planism, he said, is that Parliament, which is fully engaged in perfecting the details of state interference and the workings of administrative engineering, loses sight of the horizon of our democracy: that of the debate on the main orientations of our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1040.u18	The horizon line? It smells like Edward Philippe!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1040.u19	Ladies and gentlemen, it is therefore with an emotional thought for Hayek, for Montesquieu and for Tocqueville, at the same time as with a solidarity of affection for our Parliament, that the Group of the European People's Party will vote with conviction on the appropriations for these missions, in particular those that strengthen the actors in the control of State action. I will conclude with Albert Einstein's sentence, in the form of a reminder: "The State is our servant and we do not have to be slaves to it. »
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1040.u20	Well said! I don't share everything, but it's beautiful!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1040.u21	Mrs Sophie Métadier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1040.u22	On behalf of the IDU and independent group, I will refer in turn to the three missions that we are dealing with. The important fact of the mission Direction de l'action du Gouvernement is the French Presidency of the Council of the European Union, which explains the ad hoc extension of the scope of the mission with the creation of the programme 359 French Presidency of the Council of the European Union in 2022. The Mission's total budget for 2022 is EUR 959 million in payment appropriations, an increase of almost 12% over 2021, and EUR 849 million in commitment authorisations. The €102 million increase in payment appropriations in 2022 is mainly linked to the French Presidency. In addition to the risk of dispersal of appropriations for the digital transformation of the State and for the French Presidency of the European Union in 2022, we would like to point out the importance of maintaining a stable fiscal trajectory. The success of the French presidency in 2022 is all the more crucial as several texts of crucial importance will be debated and adopted during this mandate. Our group therefore hopes that the priorities of the French presidency of the European Union will be the subject of a debate in Parliament, so that we can discuss the Government's objectives for a more united and sovereign Europe. We would like to draw your attention, Mr. Deputy Minister, to the fact that the announced envelope does not cover the full cost of the French presidency, as it does not include the additional costs of security and reinforcements of different administrations in terms of personnel. We will therefore have to remain vigilant. The total budget of the Council and State Control Mission for 2022 amounts to €753 million in payment appropriations, an increase of 5%. This increase in appropriations is justified in our view as it will, in particular, enable the implementation of the real estate projects of the administrative courts and the strengthening of their staff, as well as those of the financial courts; This is necessary. The crisis of the covid-19 had a strong impact on the balance sheet of the administrative jurisdiction in 2021, which will probably continue in the following years without it being possible at this stage to predict precisely the extent of the crisis. We would also like to focus on the case of the High Council for Public Finance (HCFP), which ensures that the path back to balance of public finances is consistent with France's European commitments. Its monitoring mission is essential and the additional appropriations will enable it to achieve it fully, which we welcome. Beyond the objective we share, however, allow me to ask you, Minister Delegate, about how this can be achieved and, more specifically, about the budgetary balance of your measures. As you know, the proposal for an organic law on the modernization of the management of public finances, tabled by our colleagues Saint-Martin and Woerth, is currently being commuted to the Senate. It is intended to extend the prerogatives of the HCFP. If it is adopted, will the appropriations be sufficient, or are you considering a readjustment? We have not had a clear answer in committee and we want a little more transparency on this issue. Finally, with regard to the appropriations for the public authorities mission, we welcome the work of the rapporteur, Christophe Naegelen, and we obviously agree with him. The increase in funds allocated to the Court of Justice of the Republic, the Constitutional Council and the National Assembly seems justified in the light of the current situation, as a mechanical consequence of the forthcoming presidential and legislative elections. [[Mr Marc Fesneau, Minister for Relations with Parliament and Citizens' Participation, and Mr Christophe Naegelen, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, applauded]] We will vote for the appropriations of the missions under review while bearing in mind the importance of maintaining a stable and sincere budget path.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1040.u23	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1040.u24	I read that macroists were going to meet the French to ask them what they liked, what disappointed them and what irritated them during the quinquennium. I will, from the text we are looking at, help you, starting with what I did not like. I had tabled an amendment on this text, which I quote from the summary statement: "And if we celebrate those who do not celebrate. For once, I'd like to raise my drink to those who don't. Aircraft pilots or nurses, truck drivers, air attendants, bakers or sailors-fishers, a drink to the champions of the worst schedules. On the day of the release of this beautiful song of Stromae, the subjects of King Macron discovered with astonishment the last cracks of their monarch: Emmanuel I, in front of the dazzled eyes of some privileged, tried to dance a few steps on the air "I will survive". [...] Was he probably exhausted"...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1040.u25	Mrs. Panot, please.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1040.u26	I say what I want, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1040.u27	No, Mrs. Panot, I'm sorry. You have the right to say what you want, but you have no right to go beyond the police power of the President of the National Assembly. The latter, Ms. Panot, considered that the summary statement of the amendment that you tabled was contrary to the Standing Orders of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1040.u28	On what basis?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1040.u29	It is not up to me to judge this: you will have the opportunity, at the Conference of Presidents next Tuesday, to draw his attention to this point. It is my responsibility to apply the Rules of Procedure and the reading of them by the President of the National Assembly. I will therefore not let you read the explanatory memorandum to the amendment you tabled.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1040.u30	I will speak about it again at the Conference of Presidents; I don't see what article is based on the reminder you're making, Mr. President. The amendment, which I read in the summary statement, was intended to empty the budget of the Presidency's receptions to a new programme devoted to the public hospital. As you know, colleagues, since you voted in this direction, the public hospital is experiencing unprecedented haemorrhage. The Government also announced the launch of an investigation into these malignant beds, which apparently close themselves, without, of course, any connection with the €4 billion savings on the public hospital made during the quinquennium, nor with the closure of 14,000 beds in four and a half years, nor with the suspensions of caregivers. But the amendment in question has been rebutted – as you said at the moment, Mr President – not under Article 40 but visibly under the crime of lèse-majesté. I thought, naively, that Members had the freedom to draft their amendments, and I was wrong. If you want another example of what I did not like, let us look more closely at the budget devoted to the Presidency of the Council of the European Union. In total, this six-month presidency will cost us EUR 149 million, which is higher than the annual budget of the Protection of Rights and Freedoms programme. And something is asking me: this budget is watering the various ministries: 2.6 million for the Ministry of Culture, 2.6 million for health and 6.9 million for the economy, in order to organize events which you specify that they will have to concentrate on the first quarter of 2022 – at the same time as the presidential election, as is practical! Ministers will therefore have full freedom to campaign for the President, under the guise of the Presidency of the European Union. If it is open bar for ministers, the Defender of Rights, on the other hand, is on the diet. Its budget is well below an increasing demand: for the year 2021, an official of the Defender of Rights will have to deal with an average of 515 cases, which is well above the results recorded in 2019 and 2020. At the beginning of the summer, the volume of requests was up 23% at headquarters and 37% at the territorial delegate level. It is all the more surprising that you are considering strengthening its missions by giving it a special role in the bill to improve the protection of whistleblowers. So you ask him to do better with less, thesis that has never been supported anywhere. With such a budget, which reduces its resources to the congruous portion, one may wonder whether the Defender of Rights will be able to defend the rights of anyone; But maybe that's your goal? Another thing irritated me: you impoverish the Defender of Rights but you water the High Council of Public Finance with public money! The HCFP was created following the signing of the Treaty of the European Union on Stability to advise us on compliance with the principles of budgetary orthodoxy. Come on, colleagues, austerity is expensive! The budget of this institution continues to increase every year, reaching EUR 1.35 million by 2022. But finally, did you think about debt? Have you thought of bleeding in public spending? How strange: you only think about it when it comes to social spending, as if it was better to withdraw 5 euros from housing aid than to cut the budget of an institution responsible for telling us how to spend less. If the HCFP wants as long as we limit spending, why don't you suggest it, as you do for everyone else, to do better with less? To sum up, you weaken the Defender of Rights, you gradually destroy the resources of the Comptroller General of places of deprivation of liberty, but you roll the red carpet to the smart ones who want to reduce public spending and you align the tickets when it comes to campaigning softly for the President. As much as I look for it, I don't see anything that I liked about this budget, I'm really sorry. As for the budget of the Élysée, we would have overflowed with imagination to change the money that went away in the construction of the Brégançon pool, in the dishes of the Elysée at 500,000 euros, in the President's make-up products or in the floral budget of 600,000 euros in 2020 – although we have nothing against orchids. But obviously, when it comes to the President, it is a sewn mouth and you have shown it to us again today.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1040.u31	Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1040.u32	For the last time in the legislature, we have the opportunity to speak about the budgetary missions that bring together disparate institutions, all of which are essential to the proper functioning of the country. I want to talk to you about the Council of State and the Constitutional Council if the President of the National Assembly allows me to do so – I hope not to wake up his fury. As a result of the health crisis and the proliferation of emergency laws, these agencies have shown that they have a prominent place in our democracy. I would like to come back to this rise in power and ask myself about the political problems it causes. Let's start with the Council of State. For a year, the highest administrative court had never been so involved in the daily lives of French and French people. In a country in a state of health emergency, it has become a space where everyone can challenge the measures of a Government with ever-increasing powers. It respects one of the roles assigned to it at the time of its creation in 1799, without however leaving the other mission that belongs to it. Indeed, if the Council of State determines the legality of bills, decrees or other orders that are attacked by an administration, it is also the one that accompanies the Government in the preparation of these texts. This ambivalence is criticized on all sides by lawyers who believe that the Council of State almost systematically favours the Government, approving schemes that are sometimes frankly liberbid, at the expense of the public freedoms that it must guarantee to citizens. I do not believe that the decisions of the State Councillors in recent months are likely to contradict this analysis. As proof of this, of the 840 applications filed with the Council of State between the first confinement and March 2021, 511 were dismissed without adversarial debate, 329 were heard and 8 were tried in a negative direction against the Government. Today, many are calling for the abolition of this institution of bonapartist essence, which, let us not forget, includes in its midst senior officials who make incessant round-trips between the administration and the Palais-Royal. In these circumstances, how can we believe that the Council of State is today the most legitimate to do justice on behalf of the French people when they have disputes with the State? How can we defend the idea that the Council of State defends the general interest when its dependence on the Government has never seemed so great? This is a major democratic issue that we must put on the table, especially at a time when the laws of exception come into common law despite the tenacious opposition of the Communist deputies. I now come to the Constitutional Council, which saw its budget increase by €4 million in 2022, an increase of 33%. This increase is justified first of all by the control of the presidential election – history has shown that it was better to control things – entrusted to the wise men whose mission had cost 1.5 million euros in the previous fiscal year in 2017. In addition, as Laurent Fabius has wished, the institution is in the process of deploying its digital portal on priority constitutional issues (QPC), in order to better follow decisions and inform lawyers about this procedure. Should we, however, be content with an increase that leaves the Constitutional Council, once again, in the middle of the ford? If, in 1958, General de Gaulle had deliberately imagined the Council as a marginal institution of the new Constitution, no one can deny the considerable importance he has taken on today in our political life. Having become a politico-judicial institution at the heart of the rule of law and seeking – as we saw in July – exponentially, it increasingly resembles a Supreme Court that would not say its name, a Supreme Court without adequate means and without all the skills necessary for its role. As a result of this gradual transformation, no one can be satisfied with the current method of appointing its members, who are essentially former political leaders and thus rewarded with services rendered to the nation. For lack of time, I will remain there, but you will have understood that these issues remain crucial: if they do not quickly find a political and budgetary expression, it will become impossible for us to sustain our democratic ideal.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1040.u33	Mr Eric Girardin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1040.u34	The appropriations for the missions we are considering this evening are of undeniable democratic importance: they give our institutions the means to function effectively. For the year 2022, those of the public authorities mission thus amount to more than 1 billion in commitment authorizations as in payment appropriations, i.e. an increase of more than 5%: with the exception of the programmes devoted to the Presidency of the Republic and the Parliamentary Channel, all progressed. The appropriations of the State Council and Control Mission amount to 714 million in commitment authorities and 754 million in payment appropriations – almost 5% increase for the latter. Finally, the Government's Directorate of Action mission reached 849 million in commitment authority and 960 million in payment appropriations, representing an increase of almost 12 per cent. This significant increase is essential if we consider that our country will have the chance, from January onwards, to chair the Council of the European Union: more than 100 million are earmarked for the coordination and preparation of this presidency, which is crucial in the European decision-making process. These new means will also allow us to continue to combat threats to national security: foreign digital interference, manipulation of information on social networks. The quinquennium was marked by the strengthening of the intelligence services; This budget proposal provides for 25 additional posts for the VIGINUM National Service and $3.5 million for ANSSI, providing our services with the means to strengthen their intelligence systems. The increase in appropriations allows, above all, to deepen the protection of the rights and freedoms of our citizens: twenty-five more jobs for the CNIL, two for the Defender of Rights, one more million for the interdepartmental delegation to the fight against racism, anti-Semitism and anti-LGBT hatred (DILCRAH), 900000 euros for the Authority for the regulation of audiovisual and digital communication (ARCOM), which will take over from the Conseil supérieur de l'audiovisuel (CSA). That is not all, because this budget proposal goes even further in favour of the protection of the citizens: the increase in the payment appropriations of the State Council and Control mission will allow the creation of forty-one posts in the administrative courts. Since 2017, our budgetary efforts have resulted in an increase of 13 per cent in the number of administrative courts, so that the average trial time has remained below one year despite the ever-increasing number of disputes. Finally, what would this budget, which finances our democratic institutions, be if it did not tend to value participatory democracy? In order to involve key civil society organisations in the development of our policies, an envelope of 4.2 million will once again be used for citizen participation schemes. The EESC, the privileged place for this participation, will again benefit from a budget of 42 million in order to become a genuine civil society forum. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] As you will have understood, the Group of the Republic on the move will adopt these appropriations in order to continue the efforts undertaken since the beginning of the quinquennium in favour of rights and freedoms, national security, participatory democracy and better justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1040.u35	The next speaker is the Minister responsible for relations with Parliament and citizen participation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1040.u36	Be careful, there are things we don't have the right to say! Especially a minister, since a Member of Parliament can say everything in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1040.u37	Apparently, no!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1040.u38	I would like to thank the speakers, in particular the special rapporteurs who, again this year, have produced a precise and high-quality study of the appropriations that you have to consider today. The three tasks in question are very diverse, but all concern institutions indispensable for the proper functioning of the rule of law: they are aimed at ensuring that the authorities, the bodies responsible for their control and the independent authorities which ensure respect for individual freedoms, the means necessary for their action. As every year, the State Council and Control Mission has drawn attention to all the banks. Its appropriations are up by almost 5% and reflect a constant effort to invest, since the beginning of the legislature, in administrative and financial courts. In the continuity of those who preceded it, this draft finance bill strengthens the capacity of the administrative courts by providing for the creation of forty-one posts: twenty-four magistrates, three of whom are intended for the Commission for the Litigation of Paid Parking (CCSP), fifteen registry officers and two members of the Council of State. This scheme of jobs will ensure the establishment in Toulouse, in the first half of 2022, of a ninth administrative court of appeal, whose four chambers will better respond to the demands of the litigants of the South of France. It will also strengthen other administrative courts, which face an ongoing increase in litigation, particularly in the social and foreign law fields. On the latter point, although the indicators show that the CNDA is not yet meeting its objectives, I would like to remind Mrs Santiago of the Government's commitment to it: she has benefited from 80 per cent of the jobs created in the administrative courts over the past five years – indeed, extending an effort begun during the previous quinquennium – and doubling its staff since 2016. These additional resources could not produce their effects because of the health situation, which increased the time taken for judgement. However, subject to any reservation, the legal objectives are expected to be achieved in the second half of 2022 and on an annual average in 2023. I would like to devote a few words to the difficult situation of the CPSC, followed with the utmost attention by Special Rapporteur Daniel Labaronne. This draft finance bill will help to alleviate some of the tensions by creating three judicial posts, which have already been mentioned; However, a long-term solution would have to be found, which Mr Labaronne called for, in order to limit the flow of appeals addressed to him, as a result of a decision by the Constitutional Council. As for the financial courts, the 2.5 per cent increase in their appropriations, again because of a dynamic employment scheme for 2022, is part of the logic of strengthening their resources so that they can carry out their tasks successfully. In addition, the Court of Auditors should be entrusted, as from 1 July, following its German counterpart, with the mandate of the UN's External Auditor – we can welcome this, as this is an international recognition of its capabilities. A total of thirty FTEs, five of which were already included in the budget for 2021, should be allocated to this mission; The Court undertook to return them after the six-year term of office, which was not renewable. The increase in HCFP funding, already at the heart of our discussions last year, has been mentioned by several speakers, including the Special Rapporteur. In 2022, this increase is intended to recruit three additional FTEs, bringing the HCFP to eight FTEs, which remains modest if international comparisons are used. It also responds to the need for the HCFP to develop its own expertise, its analytical capacity independent of the Government, in order to ensure the proper information of Parliament and, in particular, the sincerity of budgetary debates. As Mrs Métadier has pointed out, the reform is under way and there are still elements that need to be considered. Finally, the EESC sees its budget stabilised as a result of a major reform of its functioning and tasks. The reduction in the number of its members, by reducing the expenses associated with the allowances, will result in savings that are essential to the exercise of its new prerogatives, for example with regard to citizen participation. I would also like to take this opportunity to welcome the EESC's progress in certifying its accounts. Of course, this progress seems a little slow to you, Mr Labaronne, but over the course of the budgetary years, we are indeed moving forward. I also understand that discussions are continuing with a view to integrating this accountancy into the Chorus software package, which is dear to you, once the real technical difficulties have been solved. I come to the appropriations of the Public Authorities mission, which this year is 5.4% higher than in 2021. In 2022, the Constitutional Council will see an increase in its payment appropriations of almost 33 per cent, mainly due to the costs of controlling the presidential election and the increase in the dispute related to the parliamentary elections: all this is not new. The launch of a QPC portal, facilitating access to and monitoring of this tool, which is essential for the respect of rights and freedoms, will represent an investment of almost EUR 1 million. In passing, I am surprised to hear Mr. Lecoq criticizing both the Constitutional Council and the Council of State, considering the latter too close and the former too far from the governmental positions: in essence, despite their severity, his remarks have highlighted the usefulness of these counter-powers, both for the Government itself and for everyone. They all recall the constitutional rules. As your Special Rapporteur, Mr Naegelen, has pointed out, the Court of Justice of the Republic is facing a large number of complaints justifying an increase in the appropriations allocated to its legal costs, which will reach 159000 euros, to enable it to investigate the more than 19,000 complaints lodged against the Prime Minister and other members of the Government, mainly for their management of the health crisis, as you know – this has been recalled.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1040.u39	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1040.u40	The evolution of the budget of the National Assembly and of the Senate should help to alleviate the concerns expressed by some of you, in particular Mrs Maud Petit, who referred to this subject of the means of Parliament, but because of the principle of the separation of powers, to which I have been obliged since I served as Minister for Relations with Parliament, I shall refrain from commenting on the progress made in 2022, in accordance with the decisions taken by the joint committee in the National Assembly and the Senate, which it is responsible for. Finally, the budget of the Presidency of the Republic was stable in 2022: the budget requested was identical to that foreseen in 2021; cash flow continues to be measured at EUR 2.4 million, taking into account the surpluses recorded in 2020 and most certainly in 2021. As I recall, the most controlled institution in our Republic, the Elysée will continue at the same time, in accordance with the recommendations of the Court of Auditors, its investment programme in the maintenance and valuation of its real estate assets. I would add, Mrs Santiago, that some delay had been made. This was also the reason why some improvements, including security, had to be funded. Finally, I come to the Government's direction of action mission, to which is added, as last year, a new programme dedicated to the French presidency of the Council of the European Union, which will cover the first half of 2022. Isolating this ephemeral program that I will return to, the Mission's appropriations are up 5.8 per cent, mainly as a result of new posts and investments in priority areas of the Mission. The appropriations of Program 129 Coordination of Government Work are evolving under the influence of a dynamic pattern of jobs, mainly for the benefit of the SGDSN, with the creation of ninety-four posts, which will allow for the establishment of the new Viginum service, whose activity of protection against foreign digital interference, which may be numerous, began on 1 September last. The reform of the senior management of the public service of the State results in the creation of the inter-ministerial delegation to the senior management of the State (DIESE), which will have strengthened resources compared to the senior management mission in order to establish inter-ministerial and forward-looking management of careers that did not previously exist. It will be essential for the effective implementation of the high-level civil service reform mandated by the Government. With regard to the other expenditure of programme 129, we will note the end of the payment of the new antenna of ANSSI in Rennes in order to form a centre of expertise in cyber defence with the Ministry of Armed Forces. Significant security investments are also planned, including in the IT resources and secure communications of the NSMS. Finally, and this will be the subject of an amendment earlier, the appropriations of the ICVEN, the Committee for the Compensation of Victims of Nuclear Tests, will be abounded with an additional €1.8 million. I come back to the issues raised by your Special Rapporteur, Mrs Dalloz, concerning the Government Information Service – GIS. The fact that the 2021 budget was implemented in excess of the budget provided for in the Finance Act is due to the very nature of its interdepartmental activity. The SGI has been entrusted with various communication mechanisms, in the framework of the France Relaunch Plan for example, but also the responsibility for the project to make government communication accessible. A number of job creations in the Mission relate to the Protection of Rights and Freedoms programme and are aimed at enabling the independent administrative authorities to exercise their prerogatives as best they can. The programme's budget is up 14.1%, reflecting a dynamic employment pattern of an additional 30 FTEs and the creation of ARCOM, which will include the missions and staff of the High Authority for the Dissemination of Works and the Protection of Rights on the Internet (HADOPI), whose budget of EUR 8.3 million until then was dependent on the Ministry of Culture. With regard to the other independent administrative authorities, the CNIL employment plan will allow the recruitment of 25 new staff to cope with a significant increase in referrals. The Defender of Rights has seen her payroll increase to enable the 15 FTEs in charge of the new anti-discrimination platform to be integrated. I turn to the ephemeral programme of the mission on the organisation of the French Presidency of the Council of the European Union. In this connection, Mrs Panot, I would remind you that it is not the Government that sets the dates for the French presidency of the European Union: this presidency is ours every thirteen years.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1040.u41	It can move!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1040.u42	[[Claims on several benches of the GDR and FI groups]] It was in 2008, it was in 2021, and it will be in thirteen years, I announce it to you now: therefore do not see any malice! This will be a major opportunity for France to defend strategic priorities – I hear all the demagogies but it is important that France can make its voice heard in Europe. This programme represents a budget of 150 million euros, broadly stable compared to 2008, as your Special Rapporteur pointed out – so there has been no inflationary overbidding and there is no reason to worry about budgeting. Finally, the appropriations granted to the Directorate of Legal and Administrative Information do not seem to me to require specific comments. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem and LaREM groups. – Mrs Valérie Petit also applauds]] In conclusion, I ask you to adopt the appropriations for these three missions and this annex budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1040.u43	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1040.u44	Mr President, I will challenge the inadmissibility of my amendment because it does not contain any insults, provocations or threats to the President of the Republic and there is nothing in our Rules of Procedure that prevents us from discussing it. But for the time being, I would like to know on the basis of which provision of our Rules of Procedure you interrupted me during my general statement on behalf of my group, while again I have not made any insults, provocations or threats to the person of the President of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1040.u45	You were going to read the summary statement of your amendment, which was considered by the President of the National Assembly himself to be contrary to Rule 70, paragraph 4, I believe, of our Rules of Procedure. To make things clear and to keep everyone informed, I would add, Madam President, that President Ferrand has called you to warn you and give you the opportunity to amend this statement of reasons. For having been a victim once, I know you may be looking for the session incident. In this case, it was you who provoked it. I therefore propose that we continue our work.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1040.u46	I call the appropriations of the State Council and Control Mission, entered in statement B. I call Mr Daniel Labaronne, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, to support Amendment No. 1362.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1040.u47	The purpose of this amendment is to reduce the appropriations for Title 2 of the High Council for Public Finance programme to the level which was their original finance law for 2021. I was told in committee that the resources of the High Council should be increased in view of the proposal for an organic law on the finance laws of the Chairman of the Committee on Finance and the Rapporteur-General. I would like to point out that last year we have already increased these resources by 130% with an amendment by Mr Pires Beaune, which I supported. Far from my intention to drain the funds or the jobs of the High Council: we more than doubled them last year, in a singular budgetary context since since its creation, the High Council's appropriations have been under-consumpted and its employment ceilings under-executed. This never prevented him from fulfilling his mission with a talent that I want to salute, the college of its eleven members – who are not paid, I remind him – constituting his main wealth. I also observe that the annual performance project of the Council and State Control mission justifies the increase in the appropriations of the High Council by the need to strengthen its capacity, particularly in terms of macroeconomic forecasts. However, it seems to me that France has no shortage of forecasters, whether they are public institutions such as the Directorate-General of the Treasury, the Banque de France, INSEE, or private actors such as banks, insurance, research institutes, the Observatoire français des conjunctures économiques (OFCE), Rexecode, the Centre d'études prospectives et d'informations internationales (CEPII), not to mention international institutions such as the European Central Bank (ECB), the European Commission, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) or the International Monetary Fund (IMF). I also observe that some members of the High Council College also belong to these various institutes. I therefore wonder whether the Court of Auditors should recruit new forecasters. That is why I hope that, with this amendment, we will maintain the resources of the High Council at the level which was theirs in the finance law for 2021.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1040.u48	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1040.u49	With this amendment, you propose that the Assembly should reconsider the increase in the appropriations under Title 2 of the 340 programme, which is part of a trajectory started in 2021, with an increase of two FTEs – the 130% increase you are referring to must be put into perspective in view of the number of FTEs concerned – and must enable the resources available to the High Council to be strengthened by the creation of three additional jobs in the PLF by 2022. These three additional jobs have no other ambition than to improve the capacity of the High Council to produce opinions, which it is already doing with an efficiency that everyone recognizes, as you have just done yourself, including in very short periods of time and sometimes difficult conditions. The challenge is to strengthen the competence of the High Council and its capacity to produce in-depth analyses and high-quality counter-expertise on government forecasts, including for the benefit of parliamentarians, upstream of these opinions. For this, the High Council cannot rely solely on the work of others, even if they have their interest: it must be able to produce its own analyses. The exceptional post-crisis context and its implications for public finances make this need even more acute in view of the need to analyse and understand very complex and new phenomena. Furthermore, and without prejudging what will happen to Mr Woerth's and Mr Saint-Martin's proposal for an organic law, this perspective must also be taken into account. The rate of under-consumption of appropriations, which you rightly mentioned, varies from 60 to 90 per cent depending on the financial year, but I would remind you that unconsumed appropriations are systematically returned before the end of the financial year. I would add that, with equivalent competence, the High Council is one of the least well-equipped independent budgetary institutions of the European Union: with five FTEs, it is just above those of Latvia, Malta and Slovenia. If the proposed increase is voted, it would have only one third or a quarter of its Spanish or Italian counterparts at the end of 2022, to name but a few. With 0.2 per cent of the budget of the State Council and Control Mission and 0.0002 per cent of the budget of the PLF for 2022, this is one of the smallest budgetary programmes. Because this institution seems useful to us, including to Parliament, I would ask you to withdraw this amendment. Otherwise, the Government's opinion would be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1040.u50	I call Mr Daniel Labaronne, Special Rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1040.u51	I will withdraw my amendment...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1040.u52	That's too bad!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1040.u53	... Whereas, in fact, the scope of the High Council is likely to be expanded with the proposal for an organic law and that it will need additional resources to carry out its new tasks. However, it seems to me that it would have been better to wait for the parliamentary debate on the subject to know precisely what its budgetary needs will be once the scope of its new missions has been defined.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1040.u54	I call the appropriations of the Public Authorities mission, listed in state B. Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor to support Amendment No. 1102.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1040.u55	Excuse me, Mr. President, for coming back to what you told me. It would therefore be under Article 70 (4) that you interrupted me...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1040.u56	Mrs Panot, on Tuesday you will have the opportunity to express what you are criticising the presidency of this sitting – on which I trust you – in the presence of the Minister. So it's true, there's a big problem, it's that there won't be a camera. Maybe that's why you're more prolix today than you'll be on Tuesday. I therefore propose that we return to your amendment and stay there.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1040.u57	But, Mr President, you are accusing me of calling for violence in the Chamber! I didn't resort to violence, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1040.u58	Who told you about violence?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1040.u59	You have invoked Rule 70 (4), which applies to any member of the Assembly "who has resorted to violence in a public meeting"! I did not appeal to violence in the Chamber, Mr President!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1040.u60	Article 70 is ethics!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1040.u61	This is the article on which the Speaker of the National Assembly relied to say that your amendment could not, as it stands, be presented before our Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1040.u62	Whether it is inadmissible or not is another question!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1040.u63	As Vice-President of the National Assembly, my duty and responsibility are to enforce the President's decisions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1040.u64	Defendant.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1040.u65	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor to support Amendment No. 775.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1040.u66	Defendant.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1040.u67	I call the appropriations of the Government's Directorate of Action mission, listed in statement B. Is Amendment No 1008 defended, Madam Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, Economy and Budgetary Control?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1040.u68	I'll defend him. We have a few moments to complete this mission and it is always a pleasure to talk to the Minister! [[Smile on the benches of the commissions and the Government]] I propose by this amendment a reduction in appropriations of EUR 5 million, but all being negotiable in this register it could just as well have been of EUR 500 000 as well as of EUR 5. The idea is to draw the Government's attention to the allocation of the action Events corresponding to the own initiative of the Presidency of Programme 359, French Presidency of the Council of the European Union in 2022. As I pointed out, the Secretary-General of the French Presidency of the Council of the European Union decided that 10% of these appropriations would be put into reserve, in addition to the usual 4% reserve, which is somewhat contrary to the budgetary doctrine. That is the reason for this appeal amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1040.u69	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1040.u70	I will try to respond to the appeal of the Special Rapporteur, with whom I, too, am always happy to exchange. You propose to reduce by 5 million euros the appropriations entered on programme 359 in the finance bill. The overall budget, set at approximately EUR 150 million, i.e. the budget implemented during the previous presidency, has indeed been subject, like all programmes in the general budget, to a reserve at the beginning of management. This time it amounts to 14 %, ten points higher than the common rate applied to the programmes of the general budget, for two main reasons: firstly, the difficulty of calibrating very precisely in advance the cost of a one-off operation by atypical nature; Secondly, the desire to retain a budget provision that can be quickly mobilised in accordance with the financing needs that would arise before or during the event. This reserve, which is thus intended to enable the General Secretariat of the French Presidency to adapt the distribution of appropriations between the various ministries in the course of management according to needs and hazards, will be cancelled in the law of settlement if it is not consumed. I have heard your call for a serious budget, but since these operations are quite atypical, I will ask you to withdraw your amendment. Otherwise, I will give an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1040.u71	The Special Rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 1009.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1040.u72	Whatever the opinion of the Minister-in-Office, I would like to inform him at the outset that I will not withdraw this amendment! It is of a totally different nature from the previous one: it aims to reduce the appropriations allocated to the government's information service by 1 million euros – but here too, I could have entered another amount. The commitment authority for IMIS was EUR 14.1 million in 2021, and the same amount is foreseen in 2022. I am deeply disturbed by this budget: IMIS has benefited since 2021 from the repatriation of credits from other budgetary programmes, as well as from the Fund's competitive fund. In particular, EUR 10.7 million was spent on communication actions on the France Recovery Plan, and 5 million was consumed, out of the 10 million arrows towards policies related to inclusion and disability – and I am passing on. Credit continues to arrive: one observes as a form of runoff, although I do not like this term.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1040.u73	At least it's leaking somewhere!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1040.u74	Ultimately, we can't track IMIS budgeting – it's a real challenge. I have come to understand that opinion polls amount to EUR 1.6 million a year, but in general this budget is very difficult to follow and lacks readability. That is why I would symbolically like to withdraw EUR 1 million from the SGI.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1040.u75	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1040.u76	Without great hope, but with resolve, I will try to convince Mrs Dalloz. I know that you have had fruitful exchanges with the SGI, the Special Rapporteur, which have shed light on certain aspects – these clarifications were important to feed the precise work you are doing. The Finance Act for 2020 increased IMIS appropriations from EUR 13.3 million to EUR 14.3 million. This increase, which took place at a time when the resources of GIS had been constant for several years, has enabled it to provide the means to accompany the digital transformation of government communication, to grant it the means to lead an innovative strategy for indirect distribution of government communication – press, animation of institutional networks, etc. – and to initiate an approach of computer empowerment necessary to the specificity of these tasks. In addition to its recurrent missions, IMIS is entrusted with occasional missions, in accordance with Government policies. Since the beginning of 2021, it has benefited from €10.7 million to carry out communication campaigns accompanying the France Recovery Plan, and €10 million to make government communication accessible. These resources will be provided by the end of the year with EUR 3.5 million for the financing of a campaign to prevent drug use. This method of management is the result of a development which is within the framework of the Organic Law on Finance Laws (LOLF). It enables the ministries responsible for public policy to be made responsible, by charging them with the financing of all or part of the communication actions for which they also request the assistance of the GIS. In addition, this more responsive method of financing avoids the immobilization of a mass of credits on programme 129 that could remain unemployed. My opinion is therefore unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1040.u77	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor to support Amendment No. 1112.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1040.u78	It aims to triple the resources of the Defender of Rights, whose budget is ridiculously low. While the Government continues to expand its missions, only two additional FTEs are planned for 2022. We ask that EUR 10 million be transferred to the Defender of Rights – this is even more important in the period we are living in. As a projection for the year 2021, it was indicated that an official of the Defender of Rights would have to deal with 515.5 cases, which is far superior to the results recorded in 2019 and 2020. Recall that the number of complaints had increased by 40% during the six years of Jacques Toubon's term, reaching 103,000 cases in 2019. This did not decline with the arrival of the new Defender of Rights, Claire Hédon: as of 30 June 2021, the volume of requests was up by 23 per cent at headquarters and 37 per cent for delegates. It is not serious to grant only two additional FTEs to the Defender of Rights. Do you really want it to work properly?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1040.u79	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1040.u80	In general, all independent administrative authorities have seen their employment ceilings increase according to their demands. You observe, Mrs Panot, that the President of the Republic entrusts more and more tasks to the Defender of Rights. The reality is quite different: it is Parliament that adopts laws assigning complementary tasks to the independent administrative authorities.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1040.u81	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1040.u82	That is the reality that I see every year. In 2022, the Defender of Rights will benefit from two additional FTEs, knowing that he had already obtained two new FTEs in 2021.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1040.u83	That's good!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1040.u84	Between 2018 and 2022, its employment ceiling will have increased by 18 FTEs: it will rise next year to 238 full-time equivalents. I recognize that the Defender of Rights needed additional resources, but he has been allocated very regularly – not ten FTEs per year, of course, but rather two FTEs per year. These reinforcements seem to me to be calibrated in relation to the demands of this administrative authority. I auditioned the new manager, and met with her teams; I believe that the allocation that is planned should represent an interesting sizing. For all these reasons, my opinion is unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1040.u85	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1040.u86	The Government is committed to providing the institution of the Defender of Rights with the means to carry out its tasks. That is why the draft finance law before you proposes to raise its resources again, from €23 million in 2021 to €24.4 million in 2022, an increase of 6% – you failed to say that, Mrs Panot, but I stress that. The rights defender's employment ceiling is increasing significantly, with 20 additional jobs in 2022, of which 15 FTEs were allocated as early as 2021 to ensure the functioning of the new anti-discrimination platform – you also forgot to mention it, but for the clarity of the debates, it is good to remember it, rather than to engage in stand-alone effects. The Ombudsman's employment ceiling increased from 225 in 2017 to 231 in 2021; It will reach 251 jobs in 2022, an increase of 12%. At the same time, the number of volunteer delegates has increased by another twenty, to 570 delegates, compared to 450 in 2017 – it is worth pointing out. These delegates play an important role in the territories in dealing with various issues that are as close as possible to our fellow citizens. The Government's opinion was therefore unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1040.u87	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1040.u88	You may be ironic, Minister Delegate...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1040.u89	I don't laugh at all!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1040.u90	... but the fifteen FTEs to which you refer are related to the creation of the platform. I myself interviewed the Defender of Rights: she explained to me that she could only assign ten people to police ethics. However, issues related to the ethics of public security officers increased by 10.5 per cent in 2020, to 1957 – with the British homologue of the Defender of Rights, the number is almost a hundred times higher! The creation of the platform has increased needs, as will the future law to improve the protection of whistleblowers. Under these conditions, and even with the budget increases you mentioned, the granting of two additional FTEs is absolutely not enough to defend rights in our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1040.u91	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor to support Amendment No. 1117.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1040.u92	With this amendment, we are asking for more resources for the Comptroller General of Places of Deprivation of Liberty (CGLPL): the budget allocated to him is completely inadequate in view of the needs. In particular, the budget blue points out that the processing of cases is increasingly complex; It requires multiple exchanges with the administrations concerned, both by mail and by way of on-site visits. The Comptroller General of Places of Deprivation can only count on thirty-four ETPTs, and no new posts are foreseen in 2022. It has only a staff of eighteen permanent monitors and twenty-five external monitors – under the status of paid individual on the day of mission – to carry out some 150 visits per year: it is little, as many places of deprivation of liberty are. At the same time, the Comptroller General of Places of Deprivation of Liberty processes approximately 3400 letters per year from detainees or their families. It is therefore imperative that we increase its budget to enable its staff to carry out their work and to carry out their tasks properly.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1040.u93	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1040.u94	The Comptroller General of Places of Deprivation of Liberty is one of the few independent administrative authorities that has not seen its strength increase in the recent period. However, a reminder is needed: its rise to power took place in eight years. While its staff was only fifteen FTEs in 2008, it increased to thirty-one FTEs in 2015 and thirty-three FTEs since 2016, even though the Controller did not receive any additional assignments. For having exchanged much with the Comptroller General of Places of Deprivation last year – I did not have time to meet her this year – it appears that the only difficult point concerns the objective of the 150 visits to be carried out each year. What is meant by "visits"? Do they carry on large prisons, such as Fleury-Mérogis, or on very small centres? The debate is therefore about the quality of the work done rather than the quantity. For all these reasons, my personal opinion will be unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1040.u95	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1040.u96	Like the Special Rapporteur – and like all of you, I have no doubt – I would like to acknowledge the remarkable and very precise work done by the Comptroller General of places of deprivation of liberty. This year, during an audition, we exchanged views on the objective of visits assigned to him; clarifications have been made, but we still need to refine the issue. Moreover, the scope of the Comptroller General of places of deprivation of liberty has not changed; We therefore believe that the resources allocated to him correspond to his needs. So my opinion is unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1040.u97	The Minister-in-Office has the floor to support Amendment No. 1555.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1040.u98	This last amendment of the evening reflects the announcements made by the President of the Republic last July 28 in French Polynesia and is part of a long continuity on these subjects. Its purpose is to extend by three years the period within which compensation for victims of nuclear tests may be submitted to the Committee on Compensation for Victims of Nuclear Tests, established for that purpose. This request came from several political groups, in particular from your own, Mr Lecoq.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1040.u99	Yes, from Moetai Brother.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1040.u100	As I mentioned in my opening remarks, CIVEN also receives an increase of €1.8 million in its appropriations for 2022 and an increase of two FTEs to enable it to cope with the increase in the number of cases to be processed and the amount of compensation paid.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1040.u101	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1040.u102	Let me ask two questions about this amendment. The first concerns the form: appropriations are already included in the finance bill, in programme 129. Why didn't you get the consequences? You add this provision on the deadline by means of an amendment. I know that the Government likes to table small amendments during the examination of the text, but it would have been more legible if it had been included in the PLF for 2022 from the outset. My second question concerns the substance. I understand the approach very well and I agree with it: we can only be in favour of extending the deadlines for filing compensation files. But I would like the ICVEN to clarify the proportion of files that are filed by people affected by the nuclear tests and still alive and the proportion of files in which the beneficiaries of a deceased victim seek redress. On the substance, I am of course expressing an opinion in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1040.u103	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1040.u104	As far as the form is concerned, you are right, Madam Special Rapporteur, but this is the only amendment of this nature on this programme and we are endeavouring, as we move forward, to present the most adjusted programmes possible. In the interests of intellectual honesty, however, I take note of your remark. As far as the second question is concerned, I am in danger of answering you at this hour, but I undertake to provide you with the precise details of the persons concerned by this extension of the deadline.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1040.u105	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1040.u106	I will gladly do so, but you will understand, I imagine, that I am not in a position to answer you tonight.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1040.u107	Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1040.u108	This amendment is important, as this is an essential step. It is sometimes very complicated to create a compensation file: it involves gathering many documents and exchanges take time. It is therefore very good for French Polynesia that the deadlines are extended. This will be the day when the situation of Algerians will also be taken into account: nuclear tests carried out in the Sahara desert have resulted in victims of the same nature among local populations. Of course, the law already provides for their compensation. But the language barrier, the complexity of the file preparation and the lack of information about this possibility make it very difficult for them to file a file. If France were to address this issue of nuclear testing in the Sahara at best, if I may say, in any case in the most humane and open way possible, as it does for French Polynesia, it would help to improve its relations with Algeria. In the meantime, this amendment is a good thing and we will vote on it. As you pointed out, Minister Delegate, the request comes from all the groups and all those attached to French Polynesia. Moetai Brotherson, a member of our group, of course defends this idea, but with constant concern – and that is why I am talking about it this evening – to put the situation of French Polynesia in parallel with that of Algeria. It is important to bear in mind that the French nuclear tests have been carried out in two parts of the world and that we are accountable for relieving the people who have suffered them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1040.u109	I call the appropriations from the budget annex Official publications and administrative information, entered in statement C.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1040.u110	We have completed the review of the appropriations of the missions State Council and Control, Public Authorities, Directorate of Government Action and Budget Annex Official Publications and Administrative Information. The continuation of the budget discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-29-O1040.u111	Next sitting, Tuesday, 2 November, at 3 p.m.: Questions to the Government. Further discussion of the second part of the 2022 finance bill: review of mission appropriations Recovery plan and mission Emergency plan in response to the health crisis. The meeting is adjourned.
