ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1213.u1	The next item is the debate on the effects of the crisis on the associations in our territories, the support they receive and the conditions for their resumption. The Conference of Presidents decided to organize this debate in two parts: as a first step, we will hear the speakers of the groups and then the Government; We will then proceed to a sequence of questions and answers. Mrs. Christine Pires Beaune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1213.u2	The health crisis that our country has been experiencing for more than a year has spared no part of society and the voluntary sector as a whole has been hit by the epidemic. In view of this debate, I have asked the associations in my constituency to report, as faithfully as possible, on their respective situation, their fears, their hopes, and, above all, the solutions they call for. Depending on whether they are involved in sport, culture and leisure, social action or the defence of rights, they have been affected differently by the crisis. While sports and cultural structures have been abruptly cut off, charitable associations have been asked to do more. In the Puy-de-Dôme, the Secours catholique thus notes an increase of 300 to 400 per cent in the number of its beneficiaries. In Riom alone, with a population of 19,000, more than 120 families now go to the solidarity grocery store for the distribution of food parcels, when they were 80 before. Whatever the reality of the daily life of these associations, they draw the same conclusions and their fears are shared. There is obviously the impact of the crisis on their finances: for many of them, events, competitions, performances, all the events they organize during the year are their main source of revenue. However, as a result of the epidemic, everything has stopped and chain cancellations of demonstrations have created significant cash flow difficulties. Grants from local and regional authorities were broadly maintained in 2020, despite these cancellations, but what will happen in 2021? Of course, the financial issue is important. Nevertheless, the main fear of the leaders of associations, which is strongly reflected in the totality of the testimonies I have collected, is that of the loss of the social link. All associations point to the extreme difficulty of meeting and maintaining the link with their members, their licensees and their volunteers. In reality, it is a real existential crisis that the associations are currently going through and we risk seeing some of them disappear, purely and simply, especially in rural areas. The evil that eats them is demotivation. I would like to stress with force the extraordinary commitment and vitality of all the actors in the associative fabric who, since the beginning of the pandemic, have had to evolve and adapt their practices, in order to preserve this link at all costs. Despite this, the associations today fear that they will fail to retain their volunteers and bring back their members or their licensees. Several factors explain this sad perspective: a lack of understanding of the multitude of health restrictions; measures announced too little explained in concrete terms – associations have often had to decode advertisements alone; There is also a lack of understanding of the differences in treatment, sometimes poorly accepted, between individual and collective sport, between maintaining the opening of schools and closing of music schools, for example; and, above all, the total lack of visibility in which its structures have been evolving for months. In the absence of training, competitions, concerts, sporting events, how to plan and where to find motivation? What's the point? This lack of visibility will, and still will, have dramatic consequences for the mental health of our fellow citizens. I could also have referred to the short-term impact on health, particularly that of children, following the cessation of physical activities. We need to find a quick answer to all these problems. When we ask the associations about the solutions to the difficulties they face, once again, the answer is unanimous: they only expect to be able, finally, to resume their activities. The emergency is here. All are aware, however, that the epidemic is not yet behind us and that recovery will have to be carried out with respect for the health of all. But it is becoming urgent to resume sports training, especially indoors, and friendly competitions, to reopen gymnasiums and cultural places, to offer associations visibility and perspectives. It is imperative to give them their full place and sense, to recognize that the world of associations allows different individuals to meet, to exchange, to share, but also to engage, to feel useful and, in fact, to participate in the life of the country. The responses to date have been mainly economic; They were welcomed, even if they were insufficient. My colleagues had the opportunity to develop these points last night, so I will not go back to that. The aspect I would like to stress tonight is the need for territorialised management of the resumption of associative activities. At a time when measures to combat the epidemic apply at the communal, inter-municipal and departmental levels, it is imperative to think of this recovery on the same scale, since national decisions do not necessarily reflect the reality of the territories. [[Applause on the SOC and GDR benches]] Associative officials, local authorities and local elected representatives must be allowed to work closely together in order to define conditions of recovery adapted to each territory, in particular with regard to access to installations: gauges, timetables, protocols. It is necessary to draw on the pooling of their respective expertise and their sharp knowledge of the field in order to quickly revive the world of associatives.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1213.u3	Mrs Lise Magnier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1213.u4	We all share the same findings. First of all, that of having the immense chance to live in a country where the involvement of associations occupies such a place. The territories, whether urban or rural, plains or mountains, north or south, are rich in their associations. They form the cement of the third pillar of our motto: fraternity. I would like to thank all the teams and voluntary associations that contribute to laying the foundations of our nation. Secondly, we share the same observation in view of the economic and social consequences of the health crisis that we have been going through for a year now on associations. As of 16 March 2020, the date of entry into force of the first confinement, all associations, whether sporting, cultural or leisure, had to suspend their activities and renounce the organisation of spring and summer events, which nevertheless generate the bulk of their revenues. To this was added the decrease in sponsorship spending by partner companies, which were themselves weakened by the crisis. For example, sports sponsorship spending is expected to fall by around 15 to 30%, even though it is a major source of funding for many amateur sports clubs. Associations are down by 40 per cent and membership fell by 25 to 50 per cent at the start of the year, which represents fewer contributions for an already poorly developed sector. I am not going to list the support measures deployed by the Government, but the Secretaries of State will do so much better than I do. But I mean that we have to prepare for the future because, in turmoil, there are always reasons to hope. The associations have been at the heart of the fight, from the first confinement, and have proved to be the best example of the momentum of solidarity that has crossed our country. In my riding of La Marne, I was able to see the mobilization of civil protection to help our seniors at home, the Lions Club, seamstresses, neighborhood friendly women, to make masks, blouses and superblouses for caregivers. I still have in mind all those citizens who have joined them to help, to make themselves useful, each at his level and according to his means; young people who, out of concern for the other, have pushed the doors of solidarity associations. Let them all be thanked for that. Our associations, like all of us, have been able to demonstrate treasures of inventiveness in order to maintain the link between their members and to pursue their activities differently during the phases of containment and definity. I was lucky enough to participate in the launch of the Telethon in my riding and I measure all the efforts made to imagine the mobilization in 2020. This tremendous ability to adapt demonstrates, if it were still necessary to do so, that the community fabric and the volunteers who lead it know how to mobilize themselves in the face of the unexpected. They are carried by a simple project: the gift of self, his time and his skills for the benefit of others. Moreover, the generosity of the French was not denied by the crisis; I want to point out that donations to associations increased by more than 20% in 2020. But we must now go further, at the risk of losing the extraordinary solidarity vitality that was expressed during this singular moment. The Action Together Group welcomes the Government's efforts so far to support the voluntary sector. These short- and medium-term measures, however, call for more structural changes in associative policy, in order to encourage the engagement of all and throughout life. [[Applause on the benches of the IDU-I group. – Mr. Jean-Louis Bricout also applauds]] Ladies of the Secretaries of State, two bills have been adopted in the National Assembly to support and enhance the fabric of associations: one is to raise awareness among students in colleges and high schools about the discovery of association life and the other is to strengthen the funding capacity of associations, which are in great need of it. We therefore count on you for the Senate to review them as soon as possible, because we all measure the major social, educational and civic role that associations play in the territories and because the dedication of volunteers forces us to better recognize the societal value of their action. Associations bear witness to the strength of our nation; To act for them is to act for all of us.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1213.u5	Mrs Beatrice Descamps has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1213.u6	In this month of March, the health crisis blows its first candle. This evening's debate gives us an opportunity to take stock of the effects of the crisis on associations. First of all, I would like to stress the crucial role they play in the territories. A leading actor, they contribute more than ever to creating a social bond and participate in local networking. Whether they organise marauds or welcome people in difficulty, whether they act in the field of sport or culture, it must be recognized that they have gradually occupied the space left vacant by the gradual dismantling of public services. One year after the beginning of the crisis, we can point out this paradox: although many associations find themselves in a very complicated situation – problems of cash flow, loss of members, inability to carry out their activities because of confinement and health rules – the number of volunteers engaged is constantly increasing as the opportunities are offered to our fellow citizens to act in the service of the other. This debate allows us to grasp the phenomenon, to encourage and strengthen the fabric of associations, to offer it more flexibility so that it can develop, in the same way as the commitment of our fellow citizens. The cash flow problems of the associations and the credits of the Fund for the Development of Associative Life – FDVA – were widely discussed last night. But beyond the difficult financial situation they face, the associations want a readable, fair and orderly resumption of their activities. Among the many possible examples, I am thinking in particular of music schools, harmonies, musical groups, choirs in my constituency, which, more than just cultural leisure, represent, at all ages, an important part of social life. The health crisis had put an end to these activities, and the partial repetitions that have occurred since showed that the decrees regulating access to places of practice seem unfair and difficult to read. I appeal to your action, ladies and gentlemen: it is necessary to allow associations to practice their collective artistic activities again, calmly and, of course, safely. As for sports associations, it is they who, in the first place, make sport live in France. In the communes, departments and regions, at the service of republican values, the sports association movement deploys tremendous actions, especially in the field of health – this ambition is not a luxury! The main challenge now is to bring all the licensees back to the clubs. I would also like to commend the adaptability of the associations that help the most vulnerable by distributing food parcels and equipment to people in difficulty, on the streets, to the elders in the villages, or to families whose economic situation has been severely weakened by the crisis. The number of volunteers in this sector has almost doubled, and I think it is important to be aware in this House of the commitment and wealth that they represent for the territories. In the past, the parliamentary reserve allowed, it is true, to reach out to these associations. Finally, we express deep concern about the future of young people. The difficulties they face in obtaining an internship, an alternance contract or a job are more worrying than ever. I know the commitments of the Government, which I would like to welcome – I am thinking in particular of the plan "1 young person, 1 solution". Again, the work of some associations is a veritable springboard for young people – for example, Paths to the Future, a service dedicated to young people in rural areas. Associations in our territories therefore need to be accompanied; They must not be alone in the face of the crisis. It is important to give priority to their networking through, why not, a local mediator. With my group as a whole, we count on your commitment, which we know to be active and ambitious, to the extent of the difficulties our associations face.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1213.u7	Mr Paul Molac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1213.u8	The vitality of our associations is the vitality of our territories – and it is extraordinary. The 1901 law on the contract of association is valuable: it is a law of freedom to which we must touch as little as possible, despite certain ambitions – I am of course thinking of the bill that reinforces respect for republican principles. It has allowed a multitude of people to reveal themselves, to come together to defend, which an idea, which a vision of the world, in any case a positive momentum. We constantly see illustrations of them in a wide variety of fields: sport – competition or leisure – culture – I think, at home, of the bagadoù and the circles, but also of the theatre troupes, fanfares and other carnival groups – teaching – we sometimes forget it, but the schools Diwan, Calandreta, Bressola and other Seaska are associative – not to mention the many OGEC – organizations managing Catholic education – and the lay friendly. To this are added the charitable associations – Restos du coeur, Secours populaire, Secours catholique... –, which redouble their efforts in the face of a crisis that first affected the most precarious. If the associations did not exist, they should be invented; Without them, our society would not be the same. I'm very attached to it. I was 16 when I first joined an association's board of directors – my parents had to make a waiver to allow me to do so! I have always been part of the community movement – except since I was a Member of Parliament – and I have always enjoyed its diversity. However, associations are threatened. They are financially so, as they have had to cease their activities. This is the case, for example, for those working in leisure centres or in classes and employing employees. This is also the case for local sports or leisure associations, which finance their activities by organizing an annual holiday: they had to give up this year and therefore no longer have any funding. Similarly, the many cultural associative events that sparkle the summer period, in our tourist area, could not be held. Let us take the festival of the Breton language: with an employee, it represents 100,000 euros of turnover, 22,000 euros of subsidies and some 150,000 euros of economic benefits in a territory, the Brittany Centre, which, unlike the Breton coast, is not really favored by tourism. The associations are thus able to maintain activities and support the local fabric. We will not be able to live a summer of 2021 as we lived in the summer of 2020; This does not seem possible to me, because the acceptance of the population will not be the same. There is a weariness: people are sometimes overwhelmed, from those who are afraid and calm down to protect themselves, to those who decide to live, defying all fear. If, in March 2020, everyone had just followed the instructions, I think that time is over. The Government seems to have become aware of this: after banning the banks of the Seine in Paris, among other examples, the Prime Minister now affirms that it is better to hold demonstrations outside, in a framed manner, rather than to provoke spontaneous and unbridled demonstrations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1213.u9	Please close.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1213.u10	[[Applause on a few benches of the LR and SOC groups]] The stakes are to loosen the vice, so that the French can live again, without the virus spreading too much. If we fail to do so, I fear that deviant behaviour will develop, as in periods of prohibition, which will be harmful to everyone.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1213.u11	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1213.u12	The associative world is suspended, and in survival. We still do not know how many structures will stop their activity, for lack of cash or volunteers, but it is enough to travel through the regional press to measure the concerns of associations and local authorities: with one voice, they warn about the extreme fragility of the fabric of associations. When the crisis is behind us, when we get out of this so heavy situation, when, after months without social contacts, isolated from each other, we want to find ourselves, who, better than the hundreds of thousands of associations in our country, will be able to recreate such distended human ties? Who, better than volunteers and associative employees, will be able to rebuild commons, collective projects and new perspectives, after the terrible months that we have known? The desire to build together, to find ourselves beyond our differences, will be the key to a successful exit from crisis; But if we wake up too late, we will find only closed doors, empty rooms and numbers that no longer answer. Associations of popular education, sports, cultural, leisure... it is today that their future is being played out. Smaller structures, which do not have employees, must benefit from a larger aid fund and, above all, from easier access to it. The €20 million released this year will not be enough, ladies and gentlemen. Sports clubs, in particular, need greater visibility on the aid to which they are eligible, without having to go through too many intermediaries – state, national sports agency, federations... The world of sports associations has lost almost 30% of its licensees; You have to act fast and hard! This sector must also continue to benefit from the provisions of common law until normalcy is restored. Many local and regional authorities take the lead and release subsidies; Each does so to the extent of its means, but that will not suffice. Short-term measures are necessary, but they must not mask the difficulties that the community was going through long before the covid-19. Deeper measures are needed to support the associative world: we have kept saying this since the beginning of the quinquennium – I am thinking in particular of Marie-George Buffet, whose voice I am making. You said it yourself: it takes a shock of financial security for the associative world. It is necessary to go back to multi-annual grants – the only system that gives visibility – rather than to favour and systematize calls for projects, leading to a concentration of resources and a race for the grant that distorts the fact of associations. We need to rethink the very relationship between the state and the world of associations – which is becoming, more and more, a palliative to the disengagement of the public service. But that's not the role of associations! The State must no longer leave to the care of the latter alone the tasks normally incumbent upon it. To help associations, therefore, is also to strengthen the public service, by unburdening them from missions that do not fall within the social horizon. We saw it again during the crisis, with the action of charitable associations, but also solidarity groups that formed, among students in particular, when their comrades no longer had enough to feed themselves. The state wasn't at the meeting to feed these young people! So, again, it was the collective, the associate who came, I dare say, to save them. In many territories, whether rural or urban, where the feeling of abandonment dominates, the associative fabric appears to be the last guarantee of social cohesion. We can congratulate and salute a nation that is committed, but we also hear the fatigue that is taking place. [[Applause on the SOC benches]] Finally, we need to better value the commitment of volunteers, give them time in companies and work on their status, because we will not be able to respond to the crisis in the community world without solving the issue of volunteer renewal. Let us collectively be equal to the millions of men and women who engage in everyday life. I know that this ambition is widely shared on these benches, but that of lost time, in this quinquennium, to breathe new life into the world of associatives! He would have been better prepared to deal with a crisis that we could not anticipate. In a society where everything becomes a merchant, where "everyone for himself" would become the key to success – competition, rather than cooperation – the Communist deputies reaffirm this: faced with the consequences, every day more disastrous, of the invisible hand of the market, it is necessary to protect the links – clearly visible, they – woven by the action of millions of volunteers in our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1213.u13	Mr Bertrand Sorre has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1213.u14	The health crisis we are going through is of terrible magnitude. No sector is spared by the virus and its consequences. The voluntary sector was no exception: it had to suspend its activities in order to comply with the health measures introduced by the Government. There is no need to describe the great lack of sleep resulting from this, nor the dramatic and lasting effects it has on the physical and psychological health of our fellow citizens. In the absence of encounters and exchanges, the sudden disappearance of the social bond, essential for each of us, and even more for the elderly or isolated, leads to a loss of meaning, increases anxiety and causes an increase in the consumption of psychotropic drugs. The cessation of sports activities is a source of physical fragility or overweight, especially among the youngest. There are now more than 1.5 million associations that can count on 22 million volunteers. They exist everywhere in our territories, in cities and in rural areas. Innovative and unifying projects are the result, in very broad and varied fields – leisure, sport, culture, humanitarian and charitable, social, medico-social, veterans and memory. This associative dynamism is a wealth of our nation. The associations were able to respond and organize in the face of the unprecedented context of the Covid-19 crisis. An indispensable actor of democratic life and of the proper functioning of our society, a vector of social bond, the associative fabric has been able, during the various confinements, to deploy ever more inventiveness and solidarity in order to support people in need. Since the beginning of the legislature, thus before the health crisis, the Government has developed powerful mechanisms to support the voluntary sector. Several months of work and consultations in 2018 resulted in twenty-one proposals structured around three main themes. First, the Government has launched a renewed policy of support for associations to enable them to adapt to the changes affecting them. To this end, the State accompanies them in order to share support functions, premises and employees more easily. For example, the employment impact scheme, which allows the USSRAF to entrust certain administrative burdens, has been extended to associations with fewer than 20 employees. The Government also encourages the development of the social utility activities proposed by the associations with the creation of 2000 FONJEP posts, the Youth and People's Education Cooperation Fund, for 2021 and 2022, and the strengthening of financial and skills sponsorship, which fosters private generosity by encouraging TPEs and SMEs to donate to local associations to finance community-based projects. Finally, the Government emphasizes the recognition of volunteerism and the development of a commitment society. A certification of skills has been created to recognize and enhance the value of volunteering. Similarly, the Citizen Engagement Account – CEC – has been expanded to include mentor volunteers. Since 2017, in the various financial and financial amending bills adopted each year, we have voted – often unanimously – on numerous measures in favour of associations, such as those aimed at increasing the level of universal national service and civic service, or at strengthening the fund for the development of associative life, which will amount to €53 million in 2021. Moreover, the associations have not been forgotten since the beginning of the health crisis. In addition to the partial activity measures available to women's associations, the recovery plan provides more than EUR 600 million in associative life credits, in particular for the benefit of occupational integration. Associations may also benefit from emergency measures for the social and solidarity economy or from those deployed by the National Sports Agency. Due to the decline in membership, many associations fear disappearing. However, once the state of health emergency has ceased, we can be sure that the associations and their committed volunteers will be there, well present, motivated as never before to offer us these moments of practices, discoveries, exchanges indispensable for the life in society, the well-being and the well-being of everyone. So, in order to succeed in ending the crisis, I call on the State to continue its massive commitment. There is a need for vigilant, but above all ambitious, public policies aimed at all associations, without exception, regardless of their size or location of activity. Not to mention their economic weight, associations will be key players in the recovery. They are wonderful places of social and generational mix, promoting individual and collective development, places of humanity where the notions of solidarity, respect, freedom, equality and fraternity find their full exercise and their full meaning.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1213.u15	Mr Xavier Breton has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1213.u16	Let me begin by thanking our colleagues in the Socialist and Related Group for putting on the agenda a debate on the effects of the crisis on associations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1213.u17	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1213.u18	We know the indispensable role they play in our territories. One third of the French are members of an association, a fifth are volunteers and nearly 2 million of them work there. It is this commitment within sports clubs, cultural associations and charitable organizations that drives our communities on a daily basis. It is this commitment to preserve the heritage, to maintain social cohesion or to safeguard the biodiversity that cements our society. As we all too often deplore the ravages of individualism, while multiple fractures divide our country, associations are an invaluable asset because they ensure social mix and highlight the generosity and mutual support of those concerned. We must pay tribute to those, particularly in the charitable sector, who have been mobilizing since the beginning of the health crisis to mitigate its effects. They have been able to adapt their activities to the constraints and restrictions in order to provide support to those who need it most – support for seniors, school support or support for those who are isolated or most vulnerable. But we also know that this crisis unfortunately plunges the voluntary sector into a very serious crisis, a major crisis. How many associations are now weakened, in arrears, because they have had to slow down their activity very sharply? Many of them are financially threatened by confinement because they see the number of their adherents fall or because they have to cancel demonstrations. The example of sports associations illustrates these difficulties: because of the application of health protocols which are sometimes too strict and often poorly explained, which limit the possibilities of practising, they suffer a drop of at least 25% in the number of licensees. In addition, there has been a decline in sponsors' participations and the loss of revenue due to the cancellation of competitions. As for cultural associations, their activities have also been stopped or almost stopped for more than a year. Deleted concerts, deferred exhibitions, shows and festivals cancelled: the cultural world is severely affected, and with it our entire society. Because the consequences of the crisis of the community world are spreading, and today it is the whole social, physical and psychological balance of the country that is threatened. This threat particularly affects young people, who are deprived of so many activities that are needed at this age. These years without sports practice or cultural encounters are likely to cause irreversible damage for a whole generation. Associations need our support. Of course, they know how to rely on local authorities, which, despite the budgetary constraints imposed on them, remain at the side of their associations. But state support is also needed. Of course, measures have been taken, schemes linked to partial unemployment or the solidarity fund have been extended, payment periods have been granted for tax or social deadlines and loans guaranteed by the State have been granted to them. Unfortunately, these mechanisms are not being used enough, due to lack of information or the complexity of the files to be completed. But above all, these arrangements concern only employers' associations, about one in ten, leaving the vast majority of them behind. It is therefore essential to offer opportunities to the increasingly demotivated associative world. First of all, financial perspectives. Without going back to the inappropriate removal of the reserve mechanism, however, it would be essential to regain flexibility in the management, too technocratic, of the FDVA. Why not trust elected officials? This trust must also be shown to associations. In this connection, the obligation set out in the draft law to uphold the principles of the Republic to sign a contract of republican commitment is badly felt by the world of associations, which sees it as a sign of distrust, while the context should encourage us, on the contrary, to reaffirm our confidence in all those who engage in associative life. Finally, the most important thing for associations today is to be able to resume their activities. Associations know how to control and respect health rules. They must be allowed to resume their operation very quickly. All actors are suspended from the Government's announcements, which unfortunately are constantly postponed. Associations need visibility that today is sorely lacking. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Ladies and gentlemen, the record of this crisis will not only be health, it will be economic, of course, but also social, and the liability suffered by the associations is likely to weigh very heavily.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1213.u19	Mr Jean-Pierre Cubertafon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1213.u20	The year 2020 will have caused many difficulties for the voluntary sector, which, since the first confinement in March 2020, has suffered the full consequences of the health situation. Many associations face great financial difficulties and struggle to carry out their mission or mobilize their volunteers. While part of our country is once again confined, a period of great uncertainty is opening up for associations, many of which wonder if they will be able to survive. The crisis of the covid severely affected the cash flow of the associations due to the suspension of most of the events that allowed to raise funds – collections, door-to-door, village and neighbourhood parties, exhibitions. During the first confinement, 56% of these structures were forced to cancel major events that provided them with income, many of which could not be reprogrammed since then. To this, we must add the decline in donations and patronage, as our businesses and our fellow citizens are also affected by the crisis. But, and perhaps the most dramatic, the impact of the crisis is also felt on associative engagement. For the past 20 years, an average of 70000 associations have been established each year; In 2020, this figure fell by more than 40%. Membership is also falling sharply: the sports, leisure and cultural sectors show a decline of between 25 and 40 per cent. Finally, because of the greater vulnerability of older people to the virus, the crisis has deprived associations of some of their volunteerism, which, as everyone knows, is very important. The situation is particularly worrying when social life is largely based on the community fabric and its volunteers. Let us consider the veterans' associations that allow us to carry out our duty of remembrance, the charitable associations that allow us to raise funds – I'm thinking of the October pink operation or the Telethon – the confraternities that highlight our terroirs during local gastronomic festivals, the trade fairs and associative exhibitions that bring culture to life, the holiday committees, the clubs of the elders that ensure the social link. I want to greet here all the volunteers from France, the workers' ankles of the social bond in our territories. Their commitment is both a value and a valuable example in our society. However, not everything was black during this crisis. In the face of this unprecedented situation, many of our fellow citizens have spontaneously mobilized. Engaged in actions invented in a few days that have advanced associative practices, our country has returned the image of a France in solidarity with the virus. In the face of the difficulties of the world of associations, the public authorities themselves have obviously mobilized. The State has maintained pre-crisis subsidies and has opened up access to the solidarity fund and partial unemployment for employers' associations. Many local authorities have put in place specific support mechanisms: exceptional support for associations at risk, strengthened and direct support for certain associations or with the support of local support structures. Despite all these arrangements, according to the community movement, 66% of associations were called upon to suspend their activities or to review their way of functioning. By September, nearly 30,000 associations were already at risk of depositing the balance sheet. Today, therefore, it is a matter of going further in terms of the support of the world of associations: I want to talk about all these fully voluntary associations that produce 90% of the country's cultural and sporting activities. I am also thinking of the associations of the medical and social sector, which were more strongly asked during the health crisis. That is why we must now more than ever support our territorial associative fabric; We must help it to cope with the epidemic waves and we want it to be, above all, an aid for the reconstruction of the social link in our country tomorrow. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group]] If we do, it will be stronger because it will have been able to invent new ways of action and mobilize many French people. Ladies and gentlemen, we are counting on you.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1213.u21	Mr Gérard Leseul has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1213.u22	One and a half million associations in France, 37% French people who give voluntary time to associations: as we can see, associations have a major place in our society. We will soon be celebrating 120 years of the law on the contract of association. Whether they are fun, social, solidarity or educational, they affect all fields of society and are the only players in sport, culture or solidarity in most of our territories. These associations are the beating heart of our living together. They know all the joys and difficulties of the collective, they are both SMEs, TPE with all the questions related to crisis management and management in a period of crisis. They are sometimes small employers via the very nice tool that is the associative job voucher, like the association Vespadance, an association as we all know that salaries only one person to give dance lessons here or there or to do coaching. Even on this very modest scale, there is the question of how it will be able to honour its employer's responsibility, what is the state of its reserves, what is the capital available, how it will be able to fulfil its commitment, its social object, its members. Of course, associations, like all the structures of the social and solidarity economy, are theoretically fully eligible for all the arrangements put in place by the Government since the beginning of the crisis – even though it took a few weeks or even a few months of adjustment last spring.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1213.u23	That's nothing!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1213.u24	But access to government aid follows procedures which are unfortunately sometimes inadequate to the reality of the field. They are sometimes redundant and time-consuming and are not always such as to facilitate work. Visibility must therefore be reintroduced through the multi-annual commitment. Madam Secretary of State, you yourself acknowledged that many of them did not use these aids because they were not known. The challenge – I quote – is to give them the means to activate them, but for this it is necessary to simplify, communicate and doubtless develop the aid for recovery. The intervention alongside the State of the Emergency Fund makes it possible to increase support for associations. Similarly, the crisis has led France Active, which I know well, to strengthen its support for associative companies which play a fundamental role in the social bond, the development of the territories and the maintenance of employment. But we must also take into account the great diversity of the world of associations. In my constituency as in all territories, associations are the main players in sport and culture. In Pavilly, Duclair, Mélamare, Notre-Dame-de-Bondeville, they bring our democracy to life. They did not appreciate the debate introduced by the Government on separatism, renamed "strengthening the values of the republic". For if social and economic actors bring these values to life on a daily basis on football grounds, in dance, music and rap workshops, these are the associations of the socio-cultural sector and of popular education. For them, the Associative Movement has repeatedly called for a very significant strengthening of the fund for the development of associative life so that it can at last fully play its role. In this period of health crisis, it is also necessary to talk about associations that help to preserve the physical and emotional health of our elders and more broadly of all those who work for solidarity. They are sometimes the last bulwark of the dignity of our fellow citizens. I want to say here, their action is indispensable to maintain our humanity, thanks to the distribution of food aid, without which thousands of our fellow citizens, our neighbours, cannot resist. At the national level, our implicit Republican social contract invites us to support everywhere these associations that we all know, the Restos of the heart, the food banks, which are the most indispensable social service of proximity. Support for associations also means planning an end to the health crisis and this necessarily involves a national dialogue with the large associations and a specific support of each association according to its needs. From now on, we must provide for the gradual resumption of all activities, as soon as possible, by defining a strict health framework. Volunteers are indeed responsible people. I wish, ladies and gentlemen, to draw your attention to popular education and to the Learning Holidays scheme.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1213.u25	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1213.u26	Established after the first containment period in March 2020, it aims to meet the needs of our country's children for collective experience, sharing and remobilization. The aim of the operation was to combat early school leaving. At this time, however, no commitment has been made to its renewal, while many of our children have not been able to go on vacation for many months. [[Applause on the SOC benches. – Mrs Béatrice Descamps and Mr Jean-Paul Mattei also applaud]] Ladies and gentlemen, can you give us a clear answer on support for the voluntary sector and more specifically on the future of the Learning Holidays scheme? You know the important role that the popular education movement has played in our country for a very long time.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1213.u27	The Secretary of State for Youth and Engagement has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1213.u28	If we are here tonight, the Secretary of State and I, it is because the world of associations, commitment is essential for our government as they are for our nation – proof of this is that they have been hailed on all these benches. We're two because he needs both his legs. The first is economic because the world of associations needs financial answers: these will be developed very widely by my colleague Olivia Grégoire. For my part, I would like to start by responding to the commitment of the volunteers, whom you have welcomed, rightly because they are making our country what it is, that is, a country where each of us is considered and can bring its stone. So what do we do to accompany them? First, from the first confinement, we recognized that their role was essential by allowing them to derogate from confinement in order to continue their missions. Beyond that, we have provided them with very specific answers and accompaniments, sector by sector, such as the emergency fund for sport, some of you have reminded them, with EUR 15 million. Similarly, popular education, of which Mr Leseul and President Chassaigne recalled how essential it was for our country, for our social pact and first and foremost for our children, has a special emergency fund of EUR 15 million, in order to accompany it and above all to enable it not to be on its knees when it comes back. Mr Leseul, you have asked the question of relaunching the Learning Holidays scheme. I confirm that the scheme will be maintained this summer because our children need it: we are working on it, the Minister of National Education and myself, with the federations of popular education. More broadly, the question of momentum and revival seems to me to be the main subject of your interventions, ladies and gentlemen. My colleague Olivia Grégoire will mention the financial support needed for greater visibility, but it is also a question of knowing how to accompany the commitment from an early age. We are mobilized by profound transformations, and first of all to simplify the lives of associations that are mainly made up of volunteers, thanks to the deployment of the Asso account which prevents them from having to communicate to each request their minutes of general meetings, their statutes or the identity of their leaders. This support also involves more structural changes, as Mrs Magnier pointed out, in order to allow them to regroup. We also want to promote awareness of engagement at an early age by supporting junior associations to which you can join at the age of 11. It is a question of giving young people the taste of associative engagement, because we believe that each generation can take its part and that there is no age to engage. Between 15 and 17 years of age, it is the mission of general interest within the framework of the universal national service; Between the ages of 16 and 25, this is the adventure of civic service, greatly reinforced by the recovery plan. Beyond that, it is the company commitment that will be accompanied, with a strong will from the Government to promote the patronage of competence, as Mr. Sorre recalled. All of this can only work if we recognize the skills we have acquired and if we implement the association status that each of you calls for. The foundation stone was laid by the 2017 Equality and Citizenship Act, which is now being implemented through the roll-out of the Citizen Engagement Account. As you recalled, Mr. Chassaigne, Mr. Leseul, and you too, Mr. Breton, as we are about to celebrate the 120th anniversary of the 1901 Act, there are new challenges beyond the strengthening of volunteerism and the path of engagement. Today, the world of associations is also affected by the disturbances that affect our country. The Republican contract of engagement is nothing but a tool to enable associations to answer these questions themselves; a tool built with the associations and for them, which has no other purpose but to protect this magnificent law 1901 and the treasure that the world of associations constitutes for our country. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] More than ever, I believe that in order to continue to strengthen the involvement of associations, we must trust them, accompany them and give them the tools to defend themselves. When, unfortunately, part of our country tries to divide or create fragmentation, the only way to act is to strengthen what unites us, which makes it possible to live together and to accompany the leaders, the educators, by valuing BAFA, the certificate of aptitude for the functions of animator, by upgrading all the professions of popular education, by strengthening our federations of popular education throughout our territories, but also by giving the world of associations the means to face the challenges that are theirs, in terms of governance or financing.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1213.u29	The Secretary of State for the Social Economy, who is responsible for the social economy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1213.u30	First of all, I would like to thank the Socialist Group for taking the initiative to propose this major debate on the effects of the crisis on associations, in addition to the debate held last night on the Government's policy in their favour. It is indeed vital to remind – and I thank you for giving me the opportunity – of the importance of associations in our daily lives, far beyond the crisis. Sarah El Haïry said so, and I would like to stress it in my turn, the presence of two Secretaries of State this evening, one dedicated to commitment and the other to the economy, working together, is a testament to the Government's strong commitment to the associations that are both a lever of solidarity and a major economic lever of our territories. I had the opportunity to say this during my trips – Monday in the Gers, and before in Marseille, Brittany, Lille or Strasbourg – and I repeat it before you: the aid is there. These are traditional aids open to all economic actors. I see that too few companies in the social and solidarity economy have asked for them – we have often had the opportunity to talk about it, we must unite to fight against non-use. Only 1.3% of the solidarity fund for businesses, independents, entrepreneurs – 19 billion euros have been disbursed to date – has been allocated to associations. Only 10% of the eligible associations submitted an application.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1213.u31	That's a little too bad!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1213.u32	It is a shame, indeed, but I am not the type to resolve such a situation. This is not the case on all subjects, but I know that together, elected local and elected national, are mobilised – this evening's debate is proof of this – to encourage and help associations to make more use of the available aids. For my part, I have tried to remedy the non-recourse through the Emergency ESS fund, which you introduced in the fourth amending finance bill – I would like to take this opportunity to thank you. The fund is worth EUR 30 million and almost two thirds of the beneficiaries have so far not had access to the solidarity fund. Two thirds are structures with fewer than three employees. This confirms the need, in addition to the aid already available, for a specific emergency fund. Yes, there's an emergency, but you know as I do, we're not building a future on the emergency. I have therefore ensured that the recovery plan gives its full place to the social and solidarity economy, whose associations are a major player. A total of EUR 1.3 billion has been directed towards this sector. Some consider it to be little, I take note of it, but I also note that it is new. This amount represents more than 40,000 additional skills courses – taken care of 85% by the State in areas of rural revitalization and priority neighbourhoods of the city's policy – for the non-profit sector. It is also EUR 100 million for food aid associations as well as EUR 530 million from the Caisse des dépôts et consignations and the Banque publique d'investissement to support the start-up and investment of social entrepreneurs. I am not even talking here about the funds that will benefit indirectly but largely the social and solidarity economy – ESS – such as the ADEME circular economic fund – Environmental Transition Agency – with EUR 500 million, or the appropriations – EUR 1 billion in the recovery plan – for the accompaniment and renovation of non-profit EHPADs; You recalled, Mr. Leseul, the medical and social sector is not left behind. I hear of course we can do more; We can always do more and I'll be keen to listen to you to find out what else we have to do. This morning, I was with Cédric O, Secretary of State for Digital Transition and Electronic Communications, to present the call for expressions of interest that will enable us to move towards the social and solidarity economy some of the €200 million planned by France Relance for the recruitment of digital advisers. One of our concerns is the support of our digital associations. Thus, thanks to a State commitment of 11.4 million euros, 285 digital advisers have been placed in structures of the social and solidarity economy as well as in associations that are well known to better accompany these structures and other associations. Whenever possible, I will ensure that the recovery plan whose primary objective is to disburse, as you know, comes to support the actors of the ESS. But let us be lucid – starting with me – we must also make sure that all the funds for associations are known and used, forgive repetition. When I took up my duties last July, I took the measure of non-recourse in the voluntary sector. It has multiple causes, which makes it even more complex: it is sometimes a lack of information; sometimes of a self-censorship which makes say: "I have a small association, I will not enter the boxes"; sometimes of dissuasive complexity: "I don't have the resources to respond to calls for projects." There are 1001 reasons why associations do not use the aid. The State Secretariat worked hard to improve information. I know it's ready to smile – but you know my taste for humor – yes, we have created a green number, but the same as for businesses, which is not annoyed: 0806000245. For nine months now, when you call and are an association, you have an answer; It's not just companies that get answers. We have also done a synthesis work to present all the aid available at all levels – it is not for associative actors to manage the complexity – whether regional funds, sectoral funds, national funds, the Caisse des dépôts, or the Banque publique d'investissement: everything is gathered in a single document accessible on Bercy's website. We are constantly updating it to integrate the emergency fund, as well as the recovery plan as well as all calls for projects for associative actors – no less than sixteen calls for projects in France Relance's plan are addressed to the actors of the ESS. The structures of the social and solidarity economy, including associations, do not make sufficient use of the aid at their disposal – I do not go back to the reasons. They may sometimes be miscalibrated. You have also rightly pointed out that associations are not sufficiently equipped to solicit them. That is why, in the last finance bill, we called for a substantial 28% increase in the resources allocated to the local support mechanism, which, as you know, allows associations to support the use of external providers to develop, enrich their resources and better respond to calls for projects. I welcome the upcoming consideration in the Senate of the bill to improve the cash flow of Sarah El Haïry's associations, whose determination you will have noted since she tabled and defended it when she was a Member of Parliament. We have a lot of bad news, associations are disappearing, but others are fighting and we are helping them, and we have good news, I am sure, for the associations: on May 12, in the Senate, the pending bill will finally come to fruition. This important text will complement the measures taken to promote the structural revival of associations. Beyond the urgency – I know that the debate is about this – know that I am not losing sight of the structural issues. We are working at this very moment to strengthen the associations' own funds, an essential condition for a sustainable and solidarity-based recovery. Sarah El Haïry and I will propose in the coming weeks measures to simplify access to devices such as participatory titles. As you understand it, associative structures link the general interest and the economic model. It is this balance that makes it the pillars of community solidarity. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups. – Mr. Paul Molac also applauds]] I will leave you with this sentence of Victor Hugo that we can all approve: "These men, who do these things, these fathers of masterpieces, these producers of civilization, these high and pure spirits, what do they have me? They have an incorruptible self, because he's impersonal. Their self, selfless, perpetual indicator of sacrifice and dedication, overflows them and spreads around them. The self of great souls always tends to be collective. Associations are the perfect example and they can, and will, count on the Government at their side, alongside this collective, whose commitment to the service of others we know.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1213.u33	We come to the questions. I would like to remind you that both the duration and the duration of the replies are limited to two minutes without the right to reply. Mrs Isabelle Santiago has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1213.u34	The year that has just passed has been marked by a tremendous boost of solidarity among the French who have invested heavily in the fabric of associations. While it has become essential to re-establish human relations, the economic and social crisis makes all solidarity actions carried out by associations indispensable. We saw them at work during confinement, and they are still very mobilized today: associations create social ties in our cities, in our neighbourhoods. Beyond the great well-known actors of the Restos du coeur, the Red Cross, Emmaus, in our territories, in our cities and in our countryside, in our neighbourhoods, a whole associative fabric often acts in the shadows, thanks to the constant commitment of thousands of volunteers. These associations are, for many of them, very strongly supported by the local authorities, but at the time of voting on the municipal budgets, many elected representatives warn us of the difficulties to cope with the influx of grant applications from associations overwhelmed by the worsening of the precariousness and the distress of our fellow citizens. As other speakers have said, associations are greatly affected by the crisis we are going through. They were unable to participate in various events that allowed them to increase their resources. The voluntary system has proven its effectiveness for a long time, but it is now in danger because the finances of local authorities are suffering from the current crisis. It will be difficult to increase the budgets of small associations that contribute to neighbourhood life. Is there a recovery plan for the associative world? If this is not the case, one must be defined. It is the voluntary and voluntary network in our territories that prevents our country from sinking into chaos. During the weekend and all week, volunteers are among the poorest; It is they who continue to commit themselves to the benefit of all.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1213.u35	The Secretary of State for Youth and Engagement has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1213.u36	Your question is first of all about volunteer engagement and how to support it. The health crisis produced a scissor effect. In fact, in this period, elderly people who lived in the territories were asked to stay at home to protect themselves from the virus. From the first confinement, people over the age of 65 were encouraged to stay at home. To support associative momentum, the Government had created the digital platform "I want to help" to build a civic reserve. More than 350,000 French people have registered, and – this is a source of pride for our country – almost half of them are young people under 30 years of age. At the same time, it was necessary to adapt the rules of governance, in particular to allow general assemblies to be held in distancial; Of course, this will never replace the meetings that make the community project live. Then you ask me about subsidies and small associations. The Government's commitment in this area has been exemplary: all the promised grants have been paid, whether the activity has been maintained or not, which has given the associations the stability needed to envisage the future. Finally, the topic had also been addressed by other speakers, and the Government had undertaken to conclude more multi-year contracts to allow associations to project themselves over time. It is also a way of addressing the lack of engineering in small associative structures that my colleague Olivia Grégoire pointed out. In order to help them to project themselves over time, the Government's work is based on three pillars: simplifying their lives through the association account, accompanying the arrival of new volunteers and guaranteeing grants over three years, which exempts them from repeating their efforts every year.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1213.u37	Mr Pierre-Yves Bournazel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1213.u38	The health crisis has profoundly affected the social fabric of our country. The containment and physical distancing measures, decided to curb the spread of the epidemic, have had a strong impact on the activity of the 1.5 million associations that are crippling our territory and making a significant contribution to its vitality. The pandemic also highlighted, as I said yesterday in a debate, the importance of associative action, particularly in the social and charitable field. Here I would like to commend the action of the hundreds of thousands of volunteers who have mobilized with great dedication and who are always mobilized to support vulnerable people and to provide valuable support to the healthcare staff, who are at the forefront of the fight against the virus. In order to encourage this momentum of solidarity and respond to the scale of the social crisis, the Government has taken urgent economic measures since March 2020 to secure associations. Part of the recovery plan is also devoted to them: EUR 100 million over two years have been directed towards the creation of a fund to support anti-poverty associations. Recognizing the value of associative engagement also means recognizing new rights for those who give their time to the service of others. The "Associative Life" roadmap presented by the Government at the end of 2018 provided for a better recognition of associative engagement throughout life, in particular through the certification of the skills acquired as part of this commitment. It also provided for the extension of the citizen engagement account to cover volunteers, which allows volunteers to acquire training rights in the same way as employees through the personal training account. These devices are excellent. They recognize the social value of the voluntary sector and encourage the development of volunteerism. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the exemplary commitment you have shown for a long time, and especially since the beginning of the crisis that we are going through. Can you tell us more about the deployment of these devices? Can you also tell us whether the Government is considering going further than the current arrangements, particularly with regard to the inclusion of voluntary activities in the calculation of pension entitlements?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1213.u39	The Secretary of State for Youth and Engagement has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1213.u40	Mr President, you have asked the question of the recognition and valorisation of voluntary engagement, suggesting that we go further. Today, two main pillars make it possible to build this recognition, or at least to act in this direction. The first is the deployment of the EQF, which allows each volunteer to acquire new rights – 240 euros per activity, with an annual ceiling of 740 euros. The activities recognized are diverse: they may be the management of an association or the supervision of young people, a firefighter's engagement or on the reserve. It is recognition of the action and usefulness of voluntary engagement. There is also certification, which recognizes the skills acquired. In fact, by engaging in an association, we have new activities and we acquire new experiences, even beyond the interest we find in it and the social utility associated with it. We have also launched, in accordance with the wishes of the President of the Republic, a major movement aimed at better accompanying the engagement of active young people through the deployment of a mentoring and mentoring initiative. An amount of EUR 30 million will thus be spent on associative structures in our territories, in order to create a virtuous ecosystem, conducive to commitment at any time in life, whether retired, active or young, when needed. The goal is to foster this relationship with a guardian, a mentor, through whom voluntary engagement is recognized in the person's eyes.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1213.u41	Mrs Valérie Six has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1213.u42	With 16 million people involved, volunteering in associations is the first form of French involvement. On the first day of the health crisis, the associations mobilized and everyone in their territory witnessed the tremendous solidarity that was expressed. We also know, and this has been said on all the benches of our assembly, that seniors play a very important role in this sector. In fact, 36% of those over 65 are volunteers in an association, while the commitment represents 24.6% in the general population. They thus bring to others the experience they have accumulated and a great availability. Feeling useful and doing something for others is a driving force for these people, who are often involved in sectors other than social cohesion. However, in the face of the current pandemic, seniors have withdrawn from their associative activities for safety and health reasons; Since then, there has been a lack of arms, as demand increases with the economic crisis. I would therefore like to point out here that there is a need to speed up vaccination. On the other hand, our colleague Audrey Dufeu's report entitled "Successful demographic transition and combating ageism" made very interesting proposals to recognize the place of seniors in society. In particular, it proposed the creation of a Republican certificate of recognition of commitment, the establishment of a reserve of senior competences in the municipalities and a certificate of competence outlining the career path which would be handed over by the employer to his future retired employee to accompany his transition from working life to retirement. So can you tell us how the Government intends to implement these proposals and support lifelong engagement?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1213.u43	The Secretary of State for Youth and Engagement has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1213.u44	I have, of course, taken note of the work of Mrs Audrey Dufeu, on ways to create a link and, above all, to strengthen the intergenerational link with the objective of combating ageism. One of the first stones that we laid was the deployment, together with my colleague Brigitte Bourguignon, of a mission called "Senior Civic Solidarity Service", which promotes this intergenerational bond and, in fact, fights against ageism. These 10,000 civic service missions create a real enthusiasm among our youth, and this is a necessary step. Added to this is the deployment of the Certificate of Competency, which recognizes volunteerism. We are also working with some companies to engage managers, as I have just said about mentoring and mentoring. Moreover, this momentum, this virtuous ecosystem is necessary, because each has its own stone to bring. The recognition of commitment must be accompanied at every age, from the youngest to the young pensioners, whose crisis has shown the importance in our associative structures. Barriers must not be created and, from an early age, this energy must be mobilised to support the development of associative structures. That is why, within the framework of the universal national service, young people between the ages of 15 and 17 are entering associative structures first of all for a commitment of fifteen days, that is to say eighty-four hours, where they taste for commitment, thus creating the necessary momentum for the committed nation that we call for.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1213.u45	Mr Paul Molac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1213.u46	Madam Secretary of State for Youth and Engagement, I would like to ask you about the Government's necessary support for a major part of the associative life in Brittany: the activity of the Celtic and bagada circles – so I mention, of course, all the dance groups, fanfares and other batucadas. I am pleased that the Minister for Sport authorises the supervised practice of sport in clubs, which concerns many members, because in the troubled times that we are going through, the exercise of sports, play and cultural activities meets an immense need for the well-being of our citizens. We were alerted at the general assembly of Kenleur, which brings together all the Celtic circles of Brittany, that is to say about 20,000 dancers. Twenty-four parliamentarians, so Yannick Kerlogot, myself, and, it seems to me, Mrs Graziella Melchior here, wrote to Roselyne Bachelot, Minister of Culture, to draw her attention to the difficulties faced by our bagadoque and our circles. The main difficulty they face is that it is simply impossible for them to repeat. In addition, it is impossible to draw up a timetable for the activities, which are carried out in the open air, for the coming weeks and months. It should also be noted that music or dance classes, as well as costumes, are paid for by activities that can be practiced mainly in the summer: the funds that allow associations to live therefore do not come from grants, but from their activities. Madam Secretary of State, could you reassure us of the resumption of the activities of the sounders and dancers, according to a suitable protocol?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1213.u47	The Secretary of State for Youth and Engagement has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1213.u48	Mr President, it happens that our territories are neighbouring, and I know the importance of festivals in the West, such as Breton music and Celtic circles. First of all, I will draw on the work of the Minister for Culture, who is responsible for these matters and who, together with the Minister responsible for territorial cohesion, has a budget of EUR 1.5 million. It consists of several parts, which makes it possible to shed light on its reading. It is first of all 500,000 euros for federations, which accompany amateur projects and allow in particular to finance the outfits, which you have mentioned. This is then EUR 1 million over two years as part of the practice; It is this budget line that concerns the Celtic circles. The Minister for the Cohesion of the Territories, meanwhile, finances 500,000 euros over two years, which are in addition to the credits to accompany amateur practice and are delegated to the DRAC, the regional directorates of cultural action, which will pay particular attention to the subsidies necessary for these festivals that irrigate the West, and in particular your territory. The funding lines are now identified: first, investment support to acquire and renew instruments, as well as to support practitioners; Then, operational support and support to bear the costs. Beyond these figures, what is at stake is obviously the vitality of these financings, and the ongoing work is aimed at defining protocols to resume an activity and to ensure the visibility of these events taking place outside. No doubt you have seen the latest interventions of the Minister of Culture, who referred to the preparation of summer protocols for festivals, with health rules allowing us to project ourselves in the future according to the state of the epidemic as we speak.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1213.u49	Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1213.u50	Despite the health crisis, the associations held on. They were on the front line, particularly in the accompaniment of the most fragile and the poorest. However, those in the social and solidarity economy do not have access to economic support schemes, contrary to the definition given by the European Commission, which incorporates them. Do you intend to remedy this and, if so, how? Culturally, artists have occupied the Fabrik, the national drama centre of the Indian Ocean in La Réunion, for about ten days, demanding the reopening of the theatres. How do you respond to this request? Another very sensitive question: at the beginning of last week, by the voice of Florence, Cécile, Gabrielle, Océane, Anaïs and Myriam, students from the preparatory classes of Saint-Pierre for the selection leading to the studies and the professions of childcare assistant and caregiver, submitted to me a project relating to the care related to the donation of organs. In fact, in this department, only two transplants are possible: those of the cornea and the kidneys. For others, it is necessary to go to the hexagon, with the constraints and the significant costs that this entails. The disease does not prevent and, when it is there, we must act – and, often, we must act quickly and well. While much is being done by the institutions, difficulties remain, particularly with regard to the support of families and patients, administrative procedures and follow-up when arriving in metropolitan France, accommodation, travel and catering. You understood very well that the difficulties were amplified by the crisis. Madam Secretary of State for the social economy, solidarity and responsibility, is the Government ready to take action in this area and are you prepared to provide more in-depth support to the world of associations, in particular the association Ptit Coeur, which works in this field?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1213.u51	The Secretary of State for the Social Economy, who is responsible for the social economy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1213.u52	Mr President, perhaps I have misunderstood your question, but I am sure of my answer: since I was appointed at the end of July 2020, I have endeavoured to ensure that all the structures of the social and solidarity economy are eligible for the aid set up for companies. This was not the case for business and employment co-operatives and SICs, the collective interest companies: we corrected this mistake as early as September last year. I weigh my words: the whole structure of the ESS is eligible for aid, whether it be the solidarity fund, the EGP, or the State-guaranteed loan, the exemption from tax and social charges or partial unemployment – until clickandcollect, as I was able to see on the ground. If that was not the case, I am entirely at your disposal to examine the situation. As for the Ptit Coeur association, I have noted its name – that is not the kind of name I can forget. Secondly, I will remain in line with what Sarah El Haïry has said: the Minister of Culture – I hope she does not look at us and takes a well-deserved rest – of which we all know the commitment, works hard with her collaborators, her services, but also with the cabinet of Jacqueline Gourault, Minister of Territorial Cohesion, to develop and above all implement protocols that would allow associations, especially cultural ones, to resume their activities by the end of spring. Let us know that we are fully mobilized in this direction. With regard to the last point, without knowing as well as you this serious subject, I measure the scope of what you say. I imagine you have already discussed this with the Minister of Solidarity and Health; I suggest that we do so in the vicinity of the Chamber, or that you contact my office tomorrow. To be precise, the news that I had created an emergency fund of 30 million euros crossed the oceans, since more than 200 applications came to us from the ultramarine territories, including 86 from Réunion, which is therefore not left behind – it is quite normal. We will look at this very closely, and we will talk again about Ptit Heart when you wish, with pleasure.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1213.u53	Mr Philippe Chassating has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1213.u54	First of all, I would like to welcome the efforts of the associations during this crisis to meet the most vulnerable and vulnerable populations: they have shown their agility. However, my questions will be about the accompanying nature of these issues. With 2.4 million people, the ESS sector has been able to meet the expectations of the crisis. This did not prevent him from being harshly tested: 58,000 short contracts were broken there, and the number of his associations decreased sharply. However, the State has not failed to help them: they can contract an EMP, they are eligible for the solidarity fund, but their rate of non-use of these devices remains relatively high – you recalled earlier, Madam Secretary of State. Perhaps that's why you created the UrgencESS fund for them. First of all, what assessment can be made of its use? Secondly, will it benefit from new appropriations in case there are too many applications? Finally, what about your reflection, indispensable to any crisis, on how to bounce the ESS?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1213.u55	The Secretary of State for the Social Economy, who is responsible for the social economy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1213.u56	Thank you for these questions, Mr. Chassating. Since the UrgencESS fund was only launched on 22 January, it is too early to talk about the balance sheet. As I speak to you, we have registered 7750 requests; Currently, there is an average of more than 200 per day from across the country. In your area, New Aquitaine, there were exactly 948 as of March 8th. What is interesting – I referred to it earlier in the gallery – is that, it seems, this fund is reaching its target: 64% of these requests come from associations with between one and three employees, i.e. from very small structures, and 62% from associations that have not benefited from the solidarity fund. The first tranche of EUR 10 million will allow 1620 associative structures to be accompanied, the premium, I repeat, of up to EUR 8000 for those with between four and ten employees. All in all, these 30 million will come out of the rut about 5000 associations today threatened, and will most likely – I dare tell you, I hope – be consumed at the end of April. First of all, it is important to make known the site emergency-ess.fr. I know how to count on you, on all the elected representatives: I see it on a daily basis. This is not the case for all the issues that the Government is dealing with, but what good does it do! When it comes to supporting the voluntary sector of the ESS, regions, departments, communes, state, all actors are mobilised. Let's split up, let's go fast! If these credits are exhausted before the end of April, I will ask for more: you know that I am not short of energy. However, I would like to point out that neither the Prime Minister nor Bruno Le Maire nor even Olivier Dussopt have forced me to ask twice for 30 million aid; their agreement was almost immediate. I therefore have good hope, if need be, of getting more; at least count on me to strive for it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1213.u57	Mrs. Florence Morlighem has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1213.u58	France is rich in its associative fabric. The importance of the actions carried out by the associations is measured in particular in exceptional circumstances, such as those we currently know. The economic and social implications of this unprecedented health crisis are considerable; small associations, in particular, carry out a work of necessary proximity in order to help those of our fellow citizens who risk feeling lost, neglected. I see this in my constituency, the eleventh in the Northern Department, where solidarity grocery stores, co-operative cafes, cultural associations play a crucial role in promoting living together at this delicate time. However, this same crisis weakens the small structures of the ESS, despite the creation by the Government of a welcome solidarity fund: many are unaware of it, or living with subsidies, cannot declare the loss of at least 50% of their turnover, since they do not have one – which prevents them from being compensated by this fund. The Government and its majority have become aware of the problem and therefore of the need for a specific mechanism for associations with ten or fewer employees; This led to the adoption last November, as part of the review of the fourth amending finance bill for 2020, of provisions to create a new fund of 30 million euros, UrgencESS, which has been fully operational since January. This measure demonstrates once again the full mobilization of the Government and the majority among the actors of the ESS. Madam Secretary of State, could you give us an outline, so that those concerned can take advantage of this essential tool?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1213.u59	The Secretary of State for the Social Economy, who is responsible for the social economy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1213.u60	Happy to meet you, Mrs Morlighem: the last time we saw each other was in Marlenheim, which allows me to recommend you to all Alsatian pasta. Moreover, this exciting trip has made us discover the associative structures of the East that benefit from the Emergency ESS fund. It works in a very simple way; And that was his goal. Simply connect to the website emergency-ess.fr – you will excuse me to repeat it – and fill in a small questionnaire: what the association does in practice, what types of aid it has already obtained, what types of problems it encounters, especially if it concerns financial problems or cash flow. From that point on, she receives a response within 15 days or even within 10 days in 80% of cases. For having been in another life in the place of these associative actors, I can tell you that there is nothing worse than waiting for a long time for an answer if it must be negative: that is why we give ours, whatever it may be, within fifteen days. Associations with between one and three employees can obtain up to 5000 euros; between four and ten employees, up to 8000 euros. Let us be clear: it is not a zero-rate loan, it is a direct aid. The interest is also that from the time the questionnaire was completed, even associations that are not really in need – whether they have had access to the EMP or the Solidarity Fund – are entering the circuit. They can thus benefit from the France Recovery Plan through other aid, in particular through the local accompanying arrangements – DLA – of active France. It is a window, a single point of contact, which works rather well; The CRESS, the regional chambers of the ESS, help us make him known, and I take this opportunity to thank them. Finally, when our answer is positive, which happens quite frequently, the funds are disbursed within 48 to 72 hours, so it does not take more than 18 days, shows in hand, for an association to obtain a payment on its account. If more money is needed, again, I will go and get it: I know you will support me.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1213.u61	Mrs Josiane Corneloup has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1213.u62	The impact of the health crisis on the activity of the voluntary sector is particularly worrying: the momentary sleep of the vast majority of associations, a significant reduction in their activities, the postponement or cancellation of several events of crucial importance to many of them. Nevertheless, they have made a strong commitment to the solidarity chains created from the very first confinement, particularly for health-care workers. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the volunteers, who have shown their immense solidarity and the need for their contribution to the maintenance of the French social fabric. Our country has 1.5 million associations, now in arrears, while this usually very dynamic sector – in the last ten years, it has grown by almost 2% annually – weighed in 2017 113 billion euros. Loss of social ties, loss of revenue, including reimbursement of contributions, loss of motivation of volunteers: their leaders and members of associations do not lack cause for concern. Associations of a certain size were able to benefit from the solidarity fund, the EMP, the partial unemployment scheme, or from exemptions or carry-overs; The smaller ones have been forgotten. Ladies and gentlemen, a plan to rescue these very small associations must be seriously considered. We cannot leave in such distress the thousands of people who make up the associative and social landscape of our country. The mobilisation last September of an additional €20 million for community-based associations through the "solidary neighbourhoods" emergency fund was a good measure, but largely insufficient. The FDVA, which is fairly easy to access, already benefits a number of small associations: don't you think it would be wise to increase its staffing very widely? [[Xavier Breton applauds]] In addition, how does the Government intend to support lifelong engagement?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1213.u63	The Secretary of State for the Social Economy, who is responsible for the social economy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1213.u64	Thank you for your question, Mrs Corneloup. Perhaps I should just take a minute to answer you, and leave the other one to Sarah El Haïry, since the voluntary sector uses both wage and volunteer work. We will spare you these perimeter issues, but they must show you how much we move hand in hand. The vulnerability of associations is a structural reality: it is not the result of the economic situation. The associative world follows the same K curve as the whole of our economy: some actors, especially in the ESS, have been able to maintain their activity, which is not being undermined; elsewhere, whole sections, such as sport, culture, especially those involved in events such as festivals, are in an extremely difficult situation. That is why, beyond the 20 million you mentioned, we have provided 30 million with the Emergency ESS fund, which, as its name suggests, is entirely devoted to urgency and not to recovery. Here are some figures that show the situation: 52000 jobs were lost in 2020 in the social and solidarity economy; It is the voluntary sector that is hardest hit. The Solidarity Fund, as I have indicated to you, has been used by less than 1.5% of the associations and it seems to me very useful to remind them all that they are still eligible. There are 190 million euros for 20600 associations; We could give ourselves the task of making them aware of the solidarity fund and the Emergency ESS fund, which is now intended for them. In addition, the reinforcement of the skills employment pathways within the recovery plan, for more than 200 million euros, should enable 40,000 people, especially young people, to board. These are all the resources our associations need – they tell us – in addition to funding. Finally, I welcome the action launched by Sarah El Haïry since the beginning of last year to support the recovery plan in the form of cash advances or the strengthening of associative own funds; this work is entrusted to the Caisse des dépôts; EUR 40 million is already being mobilised through the Bank of the Territories to ensure long-term financing by strengthening the associations' own funds. We know nothing of the difficulties. That is why we abound, reabunde and continue to do so if the need always arises.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1213.u65	Mr Eric Pauget has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1213.u66	Since the beginning of the health crisis, associations, the pillars of our society and our territories, have been crumbling. According to the associative movement, several thousand of them are threatened with disappearance, and voluntary engagement, which is essential to solidarity, is declining. For nearly twenty years I have been associated with the association, youth and sports of my municipality of Antibes, I will refer in particular to three affected sectors. The first is that of charitable associations, whose resources are threatened. Knowing all of us, on these benches, the associative fabric of our constituencies, we know that with the health crisis, the most economically fragile populations have suddenly moved from precariousness to poverty. They survive thanks to the action of associations and their volunteers. In my department of the Alpes-Maritimes, they are overwhelmed by the number of applications and have seen the use of their aid devices increase considerably. Because the measures provided for in the recovery plan are not enough, I propose to you, in order to maintain the momentum of solidarity in our society, to allocate the proceeds of fines imposed for failure to comply with the rules of confinement to these charitable associations. The same is true in the sport sector: membership of associations falls from 25 to 40 per cent. A true sponsorship strategy, provided by the private sector and even more incentive than the law of 1 August 2003, known as the Aillagon Act, would be welcome to finance amateur sport. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Finally, the cultural sector has a total loss of 1.5 billion euros. One in two associative structures is at risk and close to 100,000 permanent jobs are at risk of disappearing. Associative employment, threatened volunteerism, uncertain resumption of activity, financial insecurity: it is imperative that the Government realize the reality experienced by associations on the ground and think about the conditions for their resumption. It is equally imperative that it recognizes the exceptional commitment of volunteers and that they be given new rights in terms of training and retirement – I know that you are working there, Madam Secretary of State for Youth and Engagement. So my question is simple: are you ready to organize a real Grenelle from the world of associations? Indeed, it is in my view the existence of our French model.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1213.u67	The Secretary of State for Youth and Engagement has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1213.u68	I agree with you, honourable Member: each of the sectors has been shaken in a different way, which calls for specific answers, along with others, much wider, to accompany the revival and momentum of the community world. You know that I was sitting on the Finance Committee a few months ago: unfortunately, vases are not communicating and I cannot respond positively to your proposal. You are right, however, to point out that the charitable world was one of the first ramparts and that the health crisis has accelerated crises, exacerbated inequality in our territories and affected the most fragile. For this reason, the Government has allocated an additional EUR 100 million to associations to combat extreme poverty in particular, mainly to food aid networks. It was a necessary first step; new funds would be made available if the need arose. You also mentioned the issue of sport, and how to accompany it. It is noted that in sports associations, especially in the amateur sector, as you have pointed out, licensees or volunteers no longer return; the times of conviviality, which create a bond, have disappeared. For these associations, my colleague Roxana Maracinanu will release 100 million euros from the start of the year with a device, the pass'sport, intended to cover the cost of the licence of young people between the ages of 6 and 16. Beyond reopening and recovery, it is a matter of reinvigorating them. Once an activity has been stopped, it is necessary to restore energy to the associative structures in order to allow the licensees to return. This budget is, of course, in addition to the budget for the support of the federations, which amounts to EUR 15 million. We know that there is a mesh, each step of which must be accompanied and assisted, from the member, volunteer or licensee to the federation that accompanies the clubs. You've finally talked about philanthropy. I believe fundamentally in this activity, in this ecosystem in which everyone – businesses, communities, the state or even parliamentarians at the time of the vote on the finance law – can contribute their stone. The Aillagon law is, for me, one of the real treasures and a peculiarity of French philanthropy. It was stimulated by the previous finance law, with the creation of a franchise for TPEs and SMEs that makes it easier to support companies closest to sports associations in particular. We need to raise awareness of this mechanism, which is intended to facilitate their engagement. Finally, I believe in the great moments of meeting, no matter whether they're called Grenelle or General States. We will soon be celebrating the 180th anniversary of the 1901 law and I believe it is time to redefine together the momentum needed for our associative life.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1213.u69	Mr Luc Geismar has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1213.u70	I would like to ask you, Madam Secretary of State for Youth and Engagement, about the situation of cultural associations, in particular those involved in our territories for the preservation and memory of heritage. Cultural associations are experiencing difficulties that are not only cyclical, although the epidemic of covid-19 has had very negative effects and made the situation particularly critical for some of them. In a publication of March 2021, the coordination of federations and associations of culture and communication launched the alert about associative actors. The closure of cultural sites, made necessary by the health situation, has greatly constrained the finances of several associations and jeopardized many projects. However, cultural associations are necessary for valuing but sometimes also for the maintenance of our heritage. These associations, together with their volunteers, today make live the heritage of proximity: small estates, museums... in short, the material and intangible heritage that constitutes the memory of France. Today I would like to draw your attention to these associations whose work and projects are essential for the identity and attractiveness of our territories. Madam Secretary of State, what measures could be adopted by the State to assist associations involved in our territories for the preservation and memory of heritage?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1213.u71	The Secretary of State for Youth and Engagement has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1213.u72	I know, honourable Member, how committed you are to cultural associations, especially heritage associations, in our country. It turns out that these associations were affected by the health crisis; The Commission has identified pre-existing but aggravated flaws. In this regard, it is necessary to recall that the Ministry of Culture now has more than ten specific funds to accompany culture, heritage, living culture or festival or harmony. In addition, the transversal budget for culture amounts to €2.9 billion, a sum dedicated to support and transformation and entrusted to the regional directorates of cultural affairs, the DRACs, with whom cultural associations have a specific relationship, territory by territory. Beyond these elements, it seems to me necessary today to look more specifically at the associations that accompany the renovation or enhancement of the territorial heritage. To this end, I am currently working with associations that engage young people in volunteer projects, thus contributing to the transmission of memory. The associations, particularly those of veterans, explain that the second death would be forgotten. In order not to let the heritage get lost and fall into oblivion, I work with associations that create this little flame among the younger ones and invite them to move towards the specific commitments that are voluntary projects or renovation projects, particularly within the framework of the civic service. We are also working with Stéphane Bern on a general approach to raising the nation's awareness of our heritage. I cannot conclude this answer without mentioning the heritage lottery, a very beautiful adventure whose accompaniment has been confirmed in the law of finance by the national representation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1213.u73	It's a great success!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1213.u74	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1213.u75	Sport, culture, heritage, tourism, health or support for people in difficulty: with its approximately 1833 associations, the Biterrois is resolutely associative, and this makes our wealth. Yet, with the health crisis, the least we can say is that the difficulties are legion; I will quote three examples. The ASB – Béziers sports association – gym has thus increased from 620 members to about 500 last September, a worrying decline not only for budgetary reasons but also because the association is unable to repay the contributions of members who can no longer practice their sport because of the health measures. Football is not spared either: while the players of the ASB – Avenir sportif Béziers – evolve in National 2, they are simply deprived of a championship. This is an incomprehensible measure, as games can be played in camera as in League 1, but it has a cost. Finally, I am thinking of an association in charge of the integration and return to employment of people in difficulty, for which telework is particularly handicapped since it is aimed at people who are already in precarious and broken situations. Aware of these challenges, the city of Béziers has mobilized. We have thus doubled the amount of subsidies for essential associations, such as the Restos du coeur, and we have maintained or increased, by up to 30%, the subsidies of sports associations. But the associative world still suffers from the crisis; We must therefore act quickly and take strong action. In this regard, I am warning you about the FDVA, which replaced the parliamentary reserve. In Herault, in 2020, €300,000 less was distributed, a 45% decrease compared to 2019. Of the 118 beneficiaries in the department, only five were domiciled in my constituency; Therefore, everyone will be able to appreciate the territorial mesh of the scheme. I think some things have to be revised. Madam Secretary of State for Youth and Commitment, FDVA funding needs to be increased rapidly. I insist once again, and I am not the only one to say so in the Chamber: allocation decisions should be taken in consultation with local elected representatives and parliamentarians. Have you considered any such actions, Madam Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1213.u76	The Secretary of State for Youth and Engagement has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1213.u77	It turns out that, PLF after PLF, we have this debate in the Chamber. If the Senate adopts the bill to improve the cash flow of associations that will be considered from 12 May, parliamentarians will become members of the commission for the allocation of the fund for the development of association life. It is a bill that I have defended as a Member of Parliament and that has been voted unanimously, indicating that it has found an echo on all of our benches. It will provide parliamentarians with the necessary insight and a specific perspective on the deployment of funds. The budgetary increase is under way, Madam Member, with an additional EUR 20 million this year. Even before the bill is voted, I believe it is necessary for all parliamentarians to be informed of the subsidies allocated to the associations. That is what I am defending, before the arrival I hope very quickly of parliamentarians in the allocation committee. You also raised the question of how to stimulate the resumption of the activities of our associations. As soon as the health protocols permit, this recovery must be supported, as I said, by the local authorities but also by the State; We have raised almost 200 million grants, in the direction of cultural associations with the pass culture carried by Roselyne Bachelot, and on the other hand the pass'sport carried by Roxana Maracinanu, which will proactively stimulate the return of members to the associative, cultural and sports structures in particular. You also talk about amateur sports. The most urgent – this was the commitment of the Minister of National Education – was to allow the sport activity of the youngest. I have no doubt that, as soon as the health situation permits, we will find a social life, an association life and a life of commitment, which once again connects all our territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1213.u78	Madam Secretary of State, I have to thank you. You will also convey my thanks to the Secretary of State for the social, solidarity and responsible economy. The fact that two members of the government participated in this debate is a sign of respect for national representation, and I thank you for that. The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-24-O1213.u79	Next meeting, tomorrow, at 9 a.m.: Proposal for a law to protect minors from harmful uses of nitrous oxide; Motion for a resolution on the addition of the name of the former President of the Republic Valéry Giscard d'Estaing to that of the public establishment of the museums of Orsay and Orangery; Proposal for a law to accompany children with chronic pathology or cancer; Proposal for a law to better combat identity fraud in the context of unaccompanied minors; Bill to combat violent individuals during demonstrations. The meeting is adjourned.
