ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u1	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the second part of the finance bill for 2022 (No. 4482, 4524).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u2	We are dealing with the examination of appropriations relating to work and employment (No 4524, Volume III, Annex 42; No 4598, Volume III). Mrs Marie-Christine Verdier-Jouclas, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u3	When I was appointed, at the beginning of my term, as Special Rapporteur of the Labour and Employment Mission, which also deals with vocational training and apprenticeship, I did not know what was waiting for me. I did not know that this mission would lead me to work closely with all relevant actors and with the cabinet of the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Integration. I did not know that this mission contained so many budget lines, nor that there were so many tools available to deal with unemployment and so many structures dedicated to work and employment in the territories; I also did not know that these lines, tools and structures were so dependent on the budget that we would vote on every year. This year, I am about to present and defend the budget of the Labour and Employment Mission for the last time in the legislature. I will not mention the figures and their evolution, because they will certainly be presented by the minister, but I will talk to you about pride: pride, within the presidential majority, to present once again an increasing budget; pride in having stabilized, consolidated and energized all the necessary structures that work on the ground to serve the furthest from employment, to serve the young NEET – neither in employment nor in education nor in training –, the employees, the invisible; in the service of others, quite simply. I am also proud of the evolution of integration through economic activity (IEA), supported by integration structures, intermediate associations, integration enterprises or adapted enterprises; proud of the transformation of assisted jobs into skilled employment (CEP) pathways; proud of the reform of apprenticeships and the decision, following the health crisis, to increase premiums for employers as well as support for professionalisation contracts; proud of the local missions and their daily work, since the PACEA – contractualised path of adapted accompaniment towards employment and autonomy – and the youth guarantee no longer have any secret for them; proud of the rise of second chance schools and production schools, but also of the future development of EPIDE – Establishment for integration into employment; proud to have maintained the most successful job houses; proud of the experiments carried out and prolonged, territories zero long-term unemployed (TZCLD) of course, voted last December, but also the one concerning the integration enterprise for self-employment (EITI), which we will vote today. I am proud, then, of the Skills Investment Plan (SIP), which irrigated all regions; proud of the commitment of Pôle Emploi and the decision, taken two years ago, to stop the downsizing of its workforce; proud, of course, of the plan "1 young, 1 solution" – what a success! Let us pause for a few moments to enjoy the fact that, thanks to this plan, we have been able to bring a solution to more than 3 million young people. I am also proud of the way in which the Government has mobilized all possible means to ensure that employment, in particular that of the most vulnerable, remains the highest priority, even during the crisis; At the time of the rebound, he is still responding so that the recovery is a chance for each job seeker. For that, thank you, Madam Minister. I am also proud of the additional lines of credit that we are opening to implement the plan to reduce recruitment tensions, which provides for the training of employees on long or short journeys, professionalisation contracts for long-term job seekers, supported by an aid of 8000 euros granted to each employer concerned, but also the training, combined with a promise of hiring, of these long-term job seekers as well as the immersion of trainees – the list is not exhaustive. We must then mention, of course, the young contract of engagement, which was so much expected. It builds on all the available schemes and has an additional €550 million to strengthen support, or rather to have real support – at least 16 hours a week – to ensure that no young people who want to take an active part in a journey towards employment and integration are left at the side of the road. It is also a change of method that we have realized, by adopting a more "go-to" approach and by involving existing associations, which know where the young people we need to help are. By voting, we will now have the opportunity to bring these new tools to life in the service of employment for all. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] At the end of five years of work, five years of listening, consultation and negotiation, five years of hearings and meetings with actors on the ground, five years of discoveries, too, and beautiful meetings; After five years on these benches to defend successive budgets with commitment, envy and conviction, I have no doubt, ladies and gentlemen, that you too will vote with conviction the appropriations for the last work and employment mission of this quinquennium.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u4	I call Mr Perrut, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u5	The review of the finance bill (FLP) for 2022 comes in a context different from last year's: it is based on a 6.25% growth forecast, while the one we voted in 2020 was based on a 9% contraction of GDP. Employment figures are encouraging: more than 400,000 jobs were created in the first half of 2021 and 75,000 jobs are expected to be created in the second half of the year, representing nearly 220,000 net job creations in two years. This, of course, should not lead the Government to relax its efforts; The budget for 2022, as far as the Labour and Employment Mission is concerned, is in some form of continuity with the budget for 2021. But is that enough? Access and Return to Employment program appropriations are on the rise: they increase by 11% in commitment authorities and by 8% in payment appropriations. The support for economic change and employment development programme is decreasing overall, but priority is given to very small enterprises (SMEs) and small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs), which are increasing their credits; As for the appropriations of the programme Improving the quality of employment and labour relations, they decrease by more than 60% in commitment authorisations and increase by 4.2 % in payment appropriations, but this is only due to the creation of a new action Strengthening health prevention at work. Finally, with regard to the appropriations of the programme Design, management and evaluation of employment and labour policies, staff costs increase by EUR 11 million to deal with the consequences of the health crisis in deconcentrated services. As last year, the appropriations for the Labour and Employment Mission do not reflect the full amount of planned expenditure for employment since the Cohesion programme of the Mission Recovery Plan participates in the effort to the tune of 3.5 billion euros – that is less than last year, but the economic context has obviously changed. However, the extinction of the measures decided to deal with the consequences of the health crisis will undoubtedly pose a number of challenges to the economy and the labour market; Will you be ready – and we will be ready – to respond? In the meantime, while economic recovery should lead to an improvement in the situation of young people in the labour market, it should be recalled that their unemployment rate is structurally higher in France than in our neighbours. It is therefore necessary to consider the relevance of the arrangements available to us to promote their integration into the labour market. I have chosen in my report to refer to two of them: young people's learning and guarantees. In the area of learning, efforts have been made, notably under the "1 young person, 1 solution" plan; They have enabled learning to become a privileged path for occupational integration. It now attracts an increasing number of graduates of the superior, but this must not distract us from its primary objective: the integration of the most difficult young people. I am also concerned about the sustainability of the scheme: France's skills deficit amounts to 3 billion in 2021, of which 1 billion comes from learning-related expenditure. Without concealing the cyclical effects associated with the reduction of the wage bill, we know that the open window logic of the "cost-contract" makes this deficit largely structural. While companies can, thanks to the specific aid of 5000 or 8000 euros granted by the State, hire an apprentice, the success and future of this aid must question us: what will happen when it ends on 30 June 2022? We have no guarantee that learning remains a preferred route for the most difficult young people. I would like to hear from you, Madam Minister, on this matter. In committee, I asked you about the future of the youth guarantee and the lack of information on the future arrangements for accompanying young people. A message appeared on social networks now informs us about its contours; He's less ambitious than we expected. Does the youth contract add to, or replace, the existing arrangements to create a single accompanying framework for the benefit of the public still weakened by the economic crisis? In addition to local and Pôle Emploi missions, you expect public and private bodies to participate in its implementation; What are they? Can you enlighten us, Madam Minister? It is essential that this contract be based on a logic of rights and duties and that its benefit be conditional on the fulfilment of a number of commitments by young people; This is the condition of its success. I note that the future youth engagement contract is inspired by the youth guarantee – the same duration, the same allocation, the same sanctions in case of non-compliance with the commitments – and I wonder about the real added value of this new scheme as it is about its ability to significantly transform the support of young people in difficulty. We are aware of the shortcomings of the youth guarantee, in particular the fact that it leaves aside young people in precarious jobs who remain in an unstable situation, a situation which would justify accompaniment on the part of local missions. However, the new arrangement does not seem to address this issue. I also wonder how to improve the "go-to" approach to "invisible" youth, which, despite the initiatives undertaken, remains too numerous. Finally, I wonder about the realistic nature of the numerical target announced by the Government, with regard to the 400,000 young contracts that could be concluded in 2022, starting in March: how this figure has been determined and how these contracts will be financed. In conclusion, Madam Minister, I will be very attentive to the answers you will give in the debates that will follow. We do not want to promote attendance by means of a young RSA, nor – even less – to support promises that would not respect young people, because they must have confidence in the future. "The future is not foreseen, it is getting ready," said philosopher Maurice Blondel. This maxim must bring us together.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u6	We come to the spokespersons of the groups. Mrs Valérie Six has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u7	The discussion of the 2022 finance bill comes in the context of a gradual exit from the crisis in France. Even if the economic environment is no longer as degraded as last year, financial efforts must be sustained. Indeed, the economic recovery must not mask the persistence of a high unemployment rate, especially among young people – 19.8% for the 15-24 year olds, compared with 8% for the whole of the workforce in the second quarter of 2021. Support for the integration of young people into the labour market must therefore continue to receive the greatest attention from the public authorities. We must remain committed to employment and lead a high-quality accompanying policy. The support of young people towards employment is, among other things, reflected in this budget by the funding of the CAPEA and the Youth Guarantee, which I welcome. I am much more reserved about the Prime Minister's announcements about a youth contract, which will be integrated into the Labour and Employment Mission through the adoption of a government amendment. The aim would be to pay EUR 500 per month to the 500 000 most vulnerable young people, in order to accompany them towards employment or training. I find it difficult to understand what this contract of engagement is going to do, knowing that there is already a young guarantee. Is this a disguised RSA? The IDU and independent group supports the overall support of the young person, in the way that local missions do. We believe that the motivation comes from the creation of a global project and not from a mere allocation. At the same time, our public policies must improve the efficiency of the public employment service, in order to promote access to and return to employment for job seekers. The IDU and independent group wanted to propose an amendment aimed at improving the support of job seekers over 55 years of age, particularly affected by long-term unemployment, but the amendment in question was considered inadmissible. In addition, employment centres and local integration and employment plans (PLIE) are key players in employment policy at territorial level; They are real local coordinators of access to employment. Our group intended to propose an amendment aimed at stabilising the state funding they were receiving in the budget for 2021; he was also found inadmissible. I am surprised, because we have presented such a proposal every year and we have been able to discuss it every time. With regard to the positive aspects of this budget, I welcome the funding of the five-year extension of the long-term zero-unemployed territories experiment, which we unanimously adopted in this House. I also welcome the application of the law to strengthen occupational health prevention, financed to the tune of EUR 12 million. However, I would like to draw your attention to the chronic deficit in France's skills. The Personal Training Account (PCA) is a proven tool, but one that would require more supervision. Indeed, it is now possible to buy live training on the MyCompteTraining mobile app, but they are not always certifying or qualifying training. Expenditure on the CPF and learning is necessary and we support these arrangements. However, we must assume them financially and provide sufficient funds to ensure their development. It is about the future and the competitiveness of our country. The IDU and Independent Group will determine its vote on the budget of the Labour and Employment Mission on the basis of the progress and details to be made during the budget discussion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u8	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u9	Have you read it, Madam Minister for Labour, Employment and Integration? Did you read it well, this report produced by your services and ordered by you? Truckers, maintenance workers, cashiers, handlers, carists, construction workers, home helpers, security workers, salesmen, butchers, charcutiers, bakers, marketers, loggers, agri-food workers: what is the common feature of these seventeen trades? They form this "second line" celebrated by Emmanuel Macron at the heart of the crisis of the covid -19, this second line that held good for us, even if confined, even at the end, to be fed, housed, heated. These seventeen trades, a report commissioned by your ministry to several researchers, among them Christine Erhel – report entitled "The second line trades" of the Covid crisis -19: what conditions of work and employment in the private sector? –, took on the task of identifying them. What do the authors of the report note about these 4.6 million employees? I quote them: "On average, these workers are twice as often on short contracts as all private employees, receive about 30% lower wages, have low weekly working hours (except drivers), are more likely to be unemployed and have few career opportunities. Without flight, without lyricism, these phrases present an overwhelming observation, that of an injustice that can simply be stated: in our society, the most useful are the most abused and are underpaid. They receive wages of 890 euros per month, 798 euros, 814 euros, 682 euros, 767 euros, 1200 or 1400 euros in the best cases. And that is not all, since it is said that these employees "work in difficult conditions, are exposed more frequently to occupational risks and have twice as much risk of accident". In short, for low wages, they put their health at risk. One thing nevertheless makes them hold: "a strong sense of usefulness of their work, even before the health crisis. » This dark diagnosis, without fioritures, spreads over 48 pages but, in their conclusion, the authors open up opportunities for action and propose solutions: they recommend raising the level of hourly wages, reducing underemployment with part-time work and making hours more predictable. As for you, Madam Minister, what conclusions do you draw? None, nothing. "We are confident that social dialogue will lead to something interesting," the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Inclusion is told. So what actions and solutions are you going to implement? None. What are you going to do to raise the hourly wage level, to limit part-time work, to make hours more predictable? Nothing. You are confident that the social dialogue will lead to something interesting. Popular professions, indispensable, are precarising and "sub-smicardize" while at the other end of the chain the great fortunes explode... Let's play the Fair Price! In your opinion, Madam Minister, during the twelve months of health crisis, how much did French billionaires see their wealth increase? In addition, 68% in one year! They were not on the front line, however, neither in the second nor in the third – they were rather in their secondary residences. At the time of the Liberation, General de Gaulle had said to the bosses: "I did not see any of you, gentlemen, in London. We could, by parody, tell them today: "We didn't see you much during the crisis of the Covid-19. Here they are, the great permanent winners! And you, Madam Minister, earn 11,000 euros a month today, almost 30,000 euros yesterday at RATP – 29700 euros exactly! – that is, 15 times more than a subway driver. Is that just a reflection of your usefulness? Is it not legitimate, in the face of such an imbalance, to feel a sense of shame? At this game, it is always the same winners who wear costumes and tailors, while the others, the white and blue coats, the yellow and orange vests, rament in the galley. Then how will we manage to rebalance the scales? Naturally, spontaneously, by the grace of social dialogue! By the effect of mysterious providence, justice will be restored on earth. And for them, for them, for their wages and their schedules, we will magically "get something interesting." The truth, with this gibberish – "social dialogue" – and this blabla – "we have confidence" – is that you refuse to make laws on wages and schedules, and to protect the poor workers from your friends, the rich and the powerful. The truth is that truckers, maintenance workers, cashiers, handlers, agri-food workers, carists, building workers, home helpers, security officers, salesmen, butchers, meat and bakers, you wash your hands of it. The truth is, Pontius Pilate is sitting on that bench. The truth is, we let them crash.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u10	That's amazing!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u11	Shameful!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u12	Unacceptable!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u13	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u14	After several years of massive reduction in the appropriations allocated to the Labour and Employment mission, the draft finance law for 2022 provides for an anecdotal increase in funding of EUR 60 million, at constant scope, for work and employment. Nevertheless, the budget for the mission remains significantly lower than the first five-year budget by 14 per cent.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u15	There were transfers! It's intellectual dishonesty, I can't stand it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u16	This envelope shows no great ambition in the continuity of the previous exercise. It's normal: for you, just rely on the market, which will solve all the problems with the efficiency that is generously attributed to it and the sense of the human that is cruelly lacking it. [[MM. François Ruffin and Philippe Naillet applaud]] How can we not point out, first of all, that the presentation of this budget coincides with the entry into force of the counter-reform of unemployment insurance, several times postponed thanks to the judicial actions of the trade union organizations, but maintained in a forceful manner by the Government? Rather than fighting unemployment, you prefer to attack unemployed women by reducing the amount of benefits by more than 1 million of them, as if it could solve the structural problems of our economy. You thus expect 2.3 billion savings on the back of the precarious. You refuse to see the test of unemployment for the persons concerned and you insinuate that their situation is the result of a choice, since they would refuse to accept one of the countless unfilled job offers. One figure suffices to recall the hard reality of the labour market: there are thirteen times as many unemployed as there are vacant jobs. And if there are areas of tension, there is no trace of a policy to address it. Moreover, some of the job offers do not correspond to real jobs. To top it all off, while the support needs of unemployed people and young people are exploding, you are continuing the state's disengagement in the financing of Pôle Emploi, with a reduction in subsidies of 86 million in 2022, in addition to the previous savings measures. In total, nearly 400 million will have been withdrawn from the public employment service during the quinquennium. These decreases are not even offset by the ECU 175 million short-term package allocated to Pôle Emploi under the Recovery Plan to meet the support needs of long-term jobseekers. By the way, how can we not be alarmed at the 196 abolitions of posts planned at the National Agency for Adult Vocational Training (AFPA) in 2022? This decision testifies to the continuing weakening of a public instrument which is essential for the development of vocational training throughout life and for the raising of our level of collective and individual qualification in the face of the challenges of our time. For the past five years, you have been locked in a neoliberal mould and only the double health and economic crisis has forced you to deviate from your downward trend in public spending. You have revised your employment support policy by deploying additional funds to cover new assisted contracts in order to amortise the economic shock associated with the pandemic, but it is after having abruptly cut the current between 2018 and 2020, and seriously weakened the associative fabric. Youth was also not among your priorities. In the midst of a health crisis, you have repeatedly refused to extend the benefit of the RSA and other measures to young people between the ages of 18 and 25 in order to ensure a minimum safety net, referring us to the rise in charge of the youth guarantee, now known as a "young commitment contract". The recent announcement of this new device, far from the ambition shown, looks like a wet firecracker. While one in five young people live below the poverty line and there are at least 850,000 unemployed or trained young people, the youth employment contract should benefit only 400,000 of them. Moreover, this device is not suitable for all situations. Again, you are caught in flagrant deceptive communication. Undersized and insufficient in its staffing, the youth contract also excludes students, who continue to grow in the ranks of food bank users. For the rest, it must be recognised that the effort is notable for the integration through economic activity, whose appropriations are increasing by 150 million.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u17	Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u18	As for the stability of the resources granted to the services of the labour administration, it comes after four successive years of cuts in operating and downsizing expenditure. However, the work is not doing well in our country: it deserves to be secured in the face of galloping and better recognized precarization, especially through remuneration – a subject that you have always avoided throughout the quinquennium. Occupational health should also be a priority, so that everyone can flourish and be happy in their work. Once again, the budget of the Labour and Employment Mission will not allow us to be on the rendezvous.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u19	Mr Dominique Da Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u20	This budget of the Labour and Employment mission, the last of the legislature, aims to maintain and strengthen several mechanisms for the transformation of our economic and social model, in the continuity of the reforms initiated by the President of the Republic since 2017 and defended by the Government and the parliamentary majority. We have continuously increased our efforts to deal with the rigidities of the labour market and the exceptional crises in order to help, on a case-by-case basis, all French workers, whether or not they are employed. First of all, we have invested heavily in skills and learning. With an ICP of nearly 14 billion on the quinquennium, we will keep our promise to train 2 million job seekers and young people without qualifications during the period. The new ICP, announced last September by the Prime Minister, has been reinforced by measures aimed at reducing labour market recruitment tensions: an additional 689 million funds have been allocated to the immediate needs of enterprises, with employees and jobseekers being given priority to the occupations that recruit. The 2022 budget of the Labour and Employment Mission provides much more resources for our youth and, more broadly, for all those who are far from employment and employers who are struggling to recruit. Thanks to the extension, until 30 June, of the single aid for the hiring of an apprentice, we reached the figure of 525,000 contracts signed in 2020. In a few years, while it was suffering from a bad image, learning has become a recognized and popular path at all levels of education, including higher education – higher education apprentices account for 35% of the total. With the "1 young person, 1 solution" plan, you have, Madam Minister, since you arrived at the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Integration in July 2020, amplified all the measures in favour of young people. These have shown their effectiveness in a context of a health crisis that promised us chaos. A large number of these schemes are experiencing a rise this year: in 2022, the youth guarantee will cover an additional 200,000 beneficiaries; 45000 employment initiative contracts (EICs) will be proposed instead of 10000 last year; additional places will be created in second chance schools; Finally, more resources will be allocated to EPIDE. EPIDE's boarding schools offer a real chance of integration to young volunteers with great social difficulties. I am thinking of the centre of Margny-lès-Compiègne, in the Oise, which I recently visited. On behalf of the Republic on the move, I will defend an amendment that amounts to 2.5 million in appropriations to promote EPIDE, which we must rapidly raise awareness of and enhance the specificity of, as recommended by the Court of Auditors. Still for our young people, how can we not be pleased with the Government's amendment, which gives concrete expression to the words of the President of the Republic, providing for the creation of a young contract of engagement to accompany, from next year, 400,000 young people in a coordinated and individualized journey, based on a logic of rights and duties? Much more than a unconditional allocation, it is the desire for emancipation through work that we want to encourage and enhance. I hope that this principle of contract of engagement will become a universal rule for all the great excluded from the labour market. The individualisation of accompanying paths in training and employment also affects other, less young, audiences. With the employment inclusion fund for the most remote people in the labour market, we have achieved the target of 100,000 more annual CECs since 2018. With regard to the IAE, this year's resources will help achieve the target of 240,000 employees by the end of 2022, not to mention the extension of the TZCLD scheme to 50 new territories. Let us also recall the success of the generalization of free jobs to all the priority neighbourhoods of the city policy (QPV), which brings the objective to 36,000 contracts in 2022. Other amendments by the Group of the European People's Party confirm our determination in the service of work and employment: we propose to extend the experiment for two years in order to promote the development of integration enterprises through self-employment; subsidise production schools to the tune of EUR 5500 per student, which represents a complementary financial effort of almost EUR 5 million; and increase the allocation of the guarantee fund for the development of microcredit by EUR 1 million. In conclusion, the return to activity of young people and the most vulnerable, especially in the most difficult territories, remains our priority more than ever, until the end of our mandate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u21	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u22	Mr Gérard Cherpion has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u23	We are called upon to examine the appropriations of the Labour and Employment Mission for 2022, the last budget of the quinquennium. The amount of payment appropriations – EUR 13 billion – is down from last year and has still not recovered to the 2018 level. However, the economic and social situation, partly linked to the health crisis, requires resources, particularly for the public employment service. However, Pôle emploi saw its credits fall for the fifth consecutive year, by €85 million. Since 2018, it has been 362 million euros less. The AFPA is also undergoing a further reduction of 200 jobs, while your Government rightly insists on the need to train more in the face of the revival of the economy and the number of unfilled jobs. The learning figures are excellent, and I welcome them. However, apprenticeship is being developed in post-bac training, which is progressing, while pre-bac training accounts for only 39% of the total. It should be noted that a young person, whether trained by the university or by apprenticeship, finds a job within six months of graduation. The difference lies in funding: the university is financed by the State, learning by enterprises, through skills operators (OPCO). France's financial situation is worrying, with a deficit of more than EUR 3 billion, which is going to worsen. Its governance is highly contested by the social partners, who find bitterly that this body is a board of record for decisions which they escape.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u24	Here, we know that!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u25	There is also concern about transfers of shares directly dependent on the labour and employment mission to the recovery plan, as this means that their sustainability is not guaranteed. Examples are the NEF-Training scheme – the training assistance of the National Employment Fund – and the financing of the partial activity. The professional security contract is reduced to one line in Program 103, with no financial elements, no justification for results or forecasts. Perhaps it is linked to the award of part of the contract to a single private body at the national level, whose results are disconcerting – I rely on the data from the Inteva reclassification cell in the Vosges. In the Social Affairs Committee last week, you explained to us that 4 billion euros were planned for the "one young, one solution" plan in the PLF for 2022, which was a good thing. Today, by way of an amendment, you will insert the device of the young contract of engagement, presented the day before yesterday, and abound this PLF with an additional EUR 500 million. On the form, I regret that our committee has not been able to deal with this issue and that this only sitting is reserved for the consideration of a "large plan which is intended to last" as you indicated yesterday morning on France Info. The training of young people and their access to employment deserved a debate with clear and ambitious measures, not the distribution of cheques, as the Government had been doing for several weeks on many subjects. On the bottom, this measure, which will be put in place – what a surprise! – in March 2022, a month before the presidential elections, is nothing but an RSA for young people. But let us not be mistaken, it will not increase access to employment or training, alas. Indeed, the local missions have proved their worth in accompaniment to young people, and I remain dubious about the participation in this new Pôle Emploi scheme – which is certainly doing a good job – and especially associations, whose professionalisation is not guaranteed. In addition, I would like to draw the Government's attention to recent announcements concerning the payment of RSA to employees suspended due to the absence of a health pass. Is this tantamount to turning this solidarity scheme into an unemployment benefit? Could you indicate to our Assembly what measures your Government intends to take to offset the increase in departmental expenditure resulting from this new burden? Finally, the quinquennium will remain marked by the absence of structural reforms. Unemployment insurance has been reformed against the opinion of the social partners, social dialogue is akin to consultation rather than a genuine negotiation, the skills development plan is failing and pension reform is postponed from month to month. For all these reasons, the Republican Group will vote against the appropriations of the Labour and Employment Mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u26	Mrs Michèle de Vaucouleurs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u27	Simplify the law, reform unemployment insurance to make it a right for all and initiate a broad plan for training and qualification, these were the foundations of the construction site implemented in 2017 to protect everyone and improve the purchasing power of workers. This policy has borne fruit: in the first quarter of 2020, we returned to an unemployment rate of 8.1 per cent, compared to 10.1 per cent in 2016. And despite the crisis, thanks to the actions undertaken since 2017 and the extensive plan to support the economy deployed by the state, it has so far fallen to 7.6%, the lowest since 2008. While business creation is particularly dynamic in this post-crisis environment and for most audiences, the rate of return to employment has returned to levels close to those reached in 2019, it is necessary to consolidate the recovery with an ambitious labour and employment mission budget. Commitment authorizations increased slightly by $14.7 billion, compared to $14.2 billion in 2021. The mission is also supported by funding from the Recovery Plan, amounting to EUR 500 million for the upgrading of trainees in vocational training, the ICP schemes and additional support to Pôle Emploi. Programme 102, up 11%, consolidates the employment arrangements for those furthest from the labour market. After an exceptional upswing during the crisis, they continue their growth momentum and it is happy. This budgetary effort remains necessary because, unlike other target audiences, the beneficiaries of the RSA and the specific solidarity allowance (SSA) could not benefit from the labour market beautification. Their return to employment rate, from 3.6 points in 2019, fell to the lowest in 2021, to 2.6 points. To promote the return to employment of these audiences, we call on the Government to complete the IAE recognition policy. To this end, I will submit amendments to revalue the support for the post in the intermediary associations, whose sub-donation is evident. This budget also reinforces the work of local missions, whose work I welcome with young people. The CAPEAs and the Youth Guarantee are supported as essential tools of the "1 young, 1 solution" plan, with €5.4 billion. In order to provide support to the most jobless young people in the long term, neither in education nor in training, more than 550 million will abound the mission's appropriations through the youth engagement contract, following provisions close to the youth guarantee, but with further support. They will be added to the mobilisation of the funds of the "1 young, 1 solution" plan to the tune of 2 billion euros. The Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats Group fully supports the introduction of this new scheme for young people under 26 who are permanently away from employment and training who wish to take an active part in a journey towards employment. With this in mind, he will present two amendments aimed at translating this approach into the law and into the appropriations of the mission. This is not a blank cheque, as can be understood here and there, since this new right will be accompanied by duties, namely participation in training and acceptance of the internships and jobs that will be offered. In an amendment declared inadmissible, I wished to draw the Government's attention to the need not to limit myself to measures for access to employment or training, but to take into account the support needs of young people beyond their access to employment. For example, accompanying young people in the process of collecting the activity premium is a major lever for maintaining employment. The 103 programme, which provides support to enterprises for the transformation of their activity and the qualification and recognition of the skills of the assets, will once again receive a substantial envelope, with an increasing budget of more than EUR 2 billion. The dynamism of these credits contributes to the deployment of ICP and learning. Let us recall the excellent results of this policy, reformed in 2018, with more than 520,000 contracts signed in 2020. This programme reflects the deployment of solutions in direct response to the specific needs of each territory. It is the whole logic of the public service of integration and employment, which has expanded over the past year and which will continue this march forward in 2022. The last programme of the mission, Improving the quality of employment and labour relations, will have to be the vehicle for the implementation of the reform on health at work. The Democratic Movement (MODEM) and Related Democrats Group is very proud of the parliamentary work that was co-built over the course of the legislature with the Ministry of Labour. Consistently and confidently, we will vote for the Mission's appropriations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u28	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u29	Mr Boris Vallaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u30	The Work and Employment mission addresses topics that are at the forefront of French concerns. There would be much to say, particularly on the reform of unemployment insurance, the first adopted against the opinion of the social partners in forty years. We could also talk about the methodical siphoning of Pôle emploi's credits for several years or the continuous decline in this mission's appropriations during this quinquennium. But there is only one truly new element that deserves a few comments: the announcement by the President of the Republic of the creation of the young contract of engagement. We expected a lot of these announcements, because the reality is terrible. One in ten young people is unemployed or trained and the poverty rate at 25 is three times that at 60. Following the crisis of the covid, we saw the queues of food banks growing faces without wrinkles, but without smiles. We expected a lot because the Socialist and related group fought a lot for the proposal made more than three years ago, which aimed to experiment with basic income, in the wake of the nineteen socialist departments. At the heart of the crisis, we proposed a minimum youth, and our proposal to extend the benefit of the RSA in the time of the crisis was endorsed by the French. Every time we met with your indifference and refusal. We were waiting a lot, but our voice will join the disappointment concert that has been taking place for two days. The account isn't there. The unions say it, the youth associations say it, the researchers say it, the charitable NGOs say it, and unfortunately we are under an obligation to say it too. Indeed, what is the content of your proposal? First of all, let us note that the answer is late. Your device will come into effect on March 2, almost two years after the beginning of the confinement, which cost so much, especially to our youth. Funny sense of social emergency! Your answer is insufficient. The Prime Minister announced yesterday 400,000 beneficiaries of the scheme, but 200000 young guarantees were already announced, and 100,000 young people were taken care of as part of the intensive accompaniment by Pôle emploi. In fact, you have announced an additional 100,000 beneficiaries, and this guarantee will have nothing universal, so much so. France has between 835000 and 1 million young people between 16 and 25 years of age who are not in employment, education or training, which means that almost 500,000 people will remain excluded from the scheme. With your policy, you don't offer them much. Your answer, moreover, ignores the situation of precarious students and young people. You don't offer much to them either. What, moreover, must be expected from this contract reserved for young people "sustainably without employment or training"? What does the term "sustainable" mean? No one really knows – and I'm afraid you won't know it yourself. Your answer is particularly inadequate for the most vulnerable young people. First, because the conditions you attach to the device carry the risk of exclusion. You are dominated by the fantasy of the assistanat, by this mantra that was thought to be reserved to the right, but that you have made your own – you are, in many respects, applying a right-wing policy for the past five years. Nothing, however, supports the assumption that the payment of unconditional aid would be a disincentive to work. A very good study published by the Secours Catholique shows this with sharpness. What the Government is proposing to young people is, first, duties and, eventually, rights. Measure the incongruity that we have often denounced: we are 18 years old on a civic level, but only 25 years old on a social level. You are also proposing a shorter contract, the duration of which will be limited to six to twelve months, less than the youth guarantee. Due to its short duration and conditionality, this system will lead to segregation in access to housing, health supplements or adapted fares in transport. And then, the accompaniment that you boast – entrusted to Pôle Emploi, whose job is not entirely the job, or to associations, whose role is not necessarily the role – ignores the most fragile and remote young people from employment, especially those who leave the social assistance for children (ASE) and who need an accompaniment that includes a medico-social dimension. You did not take this need into account. In total, the account is not there: we can do much better. We will propose amendments – even though some have been deemed inadmissible – to make this mechanism truly universal, fairer and more ambitious in the proposed accompaniment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u31	Mr Paul Christophe has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u32	We are looking at the appropriations for the Labour and Employment Mission of the 2022 Finance Bill. The last budget of the legislature extends the financial effort for employment and vocational training undertaken since the beginning of the quinquennium and reinforces the resumption of activity in the context of the exit from the health crisis. On behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, I would like to welcome the effectiveness of public employment policies deployed since the beginning of the pandemic. They were able to thwart the apocalyptic scenarios that predicted an explosion of unemployment. The figures speak for themselves: we have already recovered the pre-crisis level of employment and the INSEE estimates that the unemployment rate should fall further to 7.6% of the labour force by the end of 2021, a level never reached since 2008. This is proof that the "whatever it costs" has played its full role as a countercyclical shock absorber and has enabled us to avoid the worst on the employment front. In 2022, the overall budget of the Labour and Employment Mission will remain stable at EUR 13.4 billion. These credits are particularly important, as they represent the nation's effort not to leave any of its members behind, as well as its ambition to enable people who are furthest from the labour market to return to employment and truly build a more inclusive society. We therefore welcome the increase in the appropriations allocated to the 102 Access and Return to Employment programme, whose increase of more than 11% over 2021 will help to strengthen the inclusion fund for people furthest from the labour market, the ICP – to which we are particularly committed – and the integration structures through economic activity. In addition, the 4% increase in the appropriations under programme 111 Improving the quality of employment and labour relations will support the implementation of the main measures provided for by the Act of 2 August 2021 to strengthen occupational health prevention, as well as the Fourth Occupational Health Plan, which covers the years 2021 to 2024. Our group has been particularly interested in this text, whose ambitious measures, such as the introduction of a new risk of occupational disintegration or the strengthening of the traceability of occupational risks, are a source of progress. We therefore welcome the choice of the allocation of these appropriations. Much has also been done with regard to youth employment. I am of course thinking of the "1 young person, 1 solution" plan, with 9 billion euros in the framework of the France Recovery Plan. More than 3 million young people have thus found employment or training, or have embarked on an integration path. Thanks to the introduction of an exceptional aid of 5000 to 8000 euros for the hiring of an apprentice, companies have made massive use of apprenticeships: more than 520,000 contracts were signed in 2020 and this record could be broken in 2021. This success is to be welcomed. However, it must be noted that youth unemployment, even though it has returned to its pre-crisis level, remains structurally too high: it reaches almost 20% among the 15-24 age group, compared with 6% among the 50 and over age group. This situation is not acceptable. To remedy this, the President of the Republic announced the creation of a young employment contract for 16-25 year-olds without employment or training, long-term away from employment. As of March 1st, the young people concerned will be able to benefit from 15 to 20 hours of accompaniment per week to discover a profession, to train, or to find an apprenticeship or a job. An allowance of up to EUR 500 will then be paid to them, subject to resources and attendance. This scheme will mainly be led by local missions, which are on the front line to carry out the last kilometer of social work for young people in the territories. I would like to pay tribute to their investment, in particular that of the employees of the local mission on the banks of the Aa and Colme, to whom I recently had the opportunity to give my full support. Minister, the stakes are great: can you indicate what additional resources will be allocated to these structures to enable them to accompany the new contract of engagement? [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – The Special Rapporteur also applauds]] We are well aware that the proposed scheme will not respond to all the precarious situations experienced by young people. I am thinking in particular of the students, who were particularly struck by the health crisis. However, we consider it to be a significant step forward in promoting the vocational integration of young people who are far from employment. The Action Together group will therefore vote in favour of the funds allocated to the Work and Employment mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u33	Mr Jean-Michel Clément has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u34	Over the past few months, the recovery of economic activity has been there. While it needs to be assessed in the light of the recession caused by the health crisis, it should be noted that this recovery is also felt in the labour market. Does that mean that the economic and social crisis linked to covid-19 is behind us? Nothing's less sure. Embellishment is not homogeneous: it does not concern job seekers with a reduced activity – often, precarious workers – or those over 50 years of age. Long-term unemployment increased during the crisis. In other words, while employment is resuming overall, it is not always of quality or sustainable. The Liberties and Territories Group therefore regrets that the initial appropriations for the work and employment mission have been reduced. You will oppose me that this fall is still slight, but it is a bad signal in this period, especially since the new calculation introduced by the reform of unemployment insurance has finally entered into force, after several postponements, despite the opposition of all the social partners. If you do not agree with the UNEDIC's conclusions on this matter, we cannot remain deaf to its warning: more than 1 million people should see their allowance reduced, while 4 million of our fellow citizens are already receiving nothing. We therefore have a great concern for all the precarious workers – seasonal, intermittent employment – who are already severely weakened by the crisis, who will be subjected to this unjust and dangerous method of calculation. We deplore it all the more because the resources allocated to the public employment service are in our view a cause for concern: from year to year, the subsidy paid by the State to Pôle Emploi is decreasing, even though the resources of this institution have been made more dependent on the contribution of UNEDIC, which is therefore more sensitive to the economic situation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u35	Right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u36	The situation of UNEDIC is itself worrying: if its accounts could soon become surplus, its debt has exploded. In view of these findings, we doubt that the funds allocated under the recovery plan are sufficient to give Pôle the resources to offer lasting and strengthened support.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u37	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u38	The other cause for concern is the extended experiment with the long-term unemployment zero-territories system. We welcome the increase in the funds allocated to the territorial experiment fund, but you are alerting us to the difficulty of the ultramarine territories, particularly Corsica, in mobilizing the financial and human resources necessary for the deployment of the device. We will also be defending an amendment aimed at remedying this situation. With regard to vocational training, which is the central focus of the Government's work in the field of employment, we believe that two priorities are essential. The first concerns the financial sustainability of France's skills, which is still experiencing a large deficit of around EUR 3 billion this year. Our group was already concerned last year about the shortfall of 4.9 billion in profits over the period 2020-2023. This raises serious questions as to the sustainability of learning schemes, the professional training account, or the skill investment plan, even as the number of applications is exploding. The other priority concerns access to training for jobseekers: they face significant difficulties in the face of the profusion of offers, the multiplicity of interlocutors or financial obstacles. We take note of the Government's plan to reduce recruitment tensions. We will come back to that when we consider the amendments. Finally, if the unemployment rate improves, it remains high for young people. What a waste of time since the beginning of the crisis, when it had to be an opportunity to reform the integration arrangements intended for them! You put forward the plan "1 young, 1 solution".
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u39	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u40	All right. We must rejoice at its good results. We fear, however, that you have given up your goal of building a universal youth guarantee, which seems to have been drowned in the midst of successive announcements of the creation of a "revenue of commitment for young people", and finally of a "contract of engagement", presented last Tuesday by the President of the Republic. As the name changes, it was the perimeter of the system that was restricted: exits the precarious workers or even the students, which was initially discussed. We will have the opportunity to express our views on the amendment that you will be presenting earlier to create this mechanism, but we are saying now that a budget of EUR 550 million to help 400,000 young people will not be enough. Since the first announcements, the planned amounts have been divided by four, while the target audience has been halved. Local missions and Pôle emploi are already following 440,000 young people. We should have been more ambitious and simpler.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u41	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u42	[[Boris Vallaud applauds]] You miss the opportunity to put an end to a blind corner of our public policies, blind to the situation of young people under the age of 25 in precarious situations. We will return to this during the debates, but as it stands, we will not support the appropriations of the Labour and Employment Mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u43	That's too bad!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u44	The Minister for Labour, Employment and Integration has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u45	This is the second time that I have the honour to present the budget dedicated to employment and training policies. Thanks to the "no matter what" and the stimulus plan you adopted last year, our economy is experiencing a strong recovery. INSEE even forecasts growth of 6.25% in 2021, which distinguishes France from its neighbours. The level of employment is higher than it was in 2019 and the number of hires has not been as high for more than 20 years. In addition, INSEE anticipates an unemployment rate of 7.6 per cent in the third quarter, which is comparable to that of 2008. I think I can say this: no one imagined such results a year ago. The challenge of the new budget is to strengthen this momentum and invest in the skills needed to ensure the country's future. The initial finance bill thus provides for 16.6 billion euros to be allocated to the financing of employment and training policies. We want to give everyone a place in the labour market, so that the recovery is truly inclusive. In concrete terms, this budget has several objectives: to support those excluded from the labour market by directing them towards the sectors in tension, to facilitate access to training for all the active people by enabling them to master their career paths and to invest more than ever for young people by stepping up their efforts for the most difficult young people. It follows a red line: building a society that encourages emancipation and facilitates access to autonomy through work. This budget is intended first of all to support people away from employment by training them to meet the immediate needs of businesses and leading them to activity. In order for the recovery to benefit all, in each territory, the Prime Minister announced on 27 September a new €1.4 billion plan to reduce recruitment tensions in certain sectors. In this way, we want to facilitate the occupational transitions of employees by earmarking EUR 600 million for their training and amplifying the training effort of jobseekers by earmarking an additional EUR 800 million for them. We want to act quickly. That is why you will be proposed to vote on appropriations from the second amending finance bill, says PLFR 2, for 2021, which you will be considering in the next few days. They will be supplemented by an amendment to the PLF for 2022, which we will present to you today, and which I call on you to vote massively. Through this plan, we pay particular attention to long-term job seekers. While the unemployment rate has fallen sharply, long-term unemployment persists at a high level. This is why we strongly urge companies to hire long-term jobseekers on a professional contract. More broadly, to build a more inclusive society, this draft finance bill strengthens all integration schemes for vulnerable audiences. Thus, integration structures through economic activity will benefit from EUR 1.3 billion, an increase of 150 million over 2021. Adapted companies will receive EUR 425 million in postal aid. The enlargement of the long-term unemployment zero-territories experiment will be financed by a budget of more than 33 million euros. I would like to pay tribute here to the work done by the Committee on Social Affairs and the Committee on Finance. We find ourselves around the idea that integration is a lever of social and territorial cohesion. That is why we will support the amendments tabled by Mrs Marie-Christine Verdier-Jouclas and by the majority. [[Special Rapporteur applauds]] I confirm that the employment houses will benefit from a €5 million envelope and that the experiment on integration enterprises through self-employment will be extended by two years, as we have committed to it. Secondly, the budget for 2022 aims to facilitate access to training for all assets, to enable them to move towards sustainable and quality jobs. First of all, the skills investment plan will benefit from a new commitment of €3 billion. This brings the total amount invested over the entire quinquennium to 13.6 billion euros, in line with the target of 2 million additional entrances into training for the years 2018-2022. We want to raise the level of qualifications of young people and job seekers to facilitate their integration into the labour market and thus make our businesses more competitive by anticipating the transformation of the professions. In addition, the personal training account has made it possible to revolutionize our training system. In fact, last week we celebrated the two years of the MyCompteTraining app. Already 2 million French registered to train in 2021 by downloading this application, compared to 600,000 for the whole year 2019. We have truly democratised access to training: the right to continuing training is now tangible. However, this success helps to put France's skills under heavy pressure.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u46	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u47	The operator's revenues were contracted as a result of the crisis, while its expenditure increased sharply due to the exceptional dynamics of learning and the use of the CPF. To ensure its financing, we will propose in PLFR 2 for 2021 to remove the gold rule of France skills and to pay it a global grant of 2.7 billion euros for 2021. In 2022, however, the State and the social partners will have to define the modalities for a sustainable trajectory. Finally, Budget 2022 continues to invest unprecedentedly in youth, strengthening our efforts for the benefit of the most troubled young people. With €9 billion deployed in 2020 and €2021, the "1 young, 1 solution" plan has undoubtedly borne fruit. Since its launch, more than 3 million young people have found their solution: a job, an apprenticeship, a training or a path of integration. And the number of young job seekers has been at the lowest since 2008. In 2022, we want to continue this mobilization in the service of youth employment. That is why we have decided to renew the solutions that have proved their worth. A budget of €5.4 billion is thus devoted to financing the continuation of the tools of the "1 young person, 1 solution" plan: extended alternation premiums until June 2022, qualifying training courses or aided contracts. In order to transform the vocational integration of young people in a sustainable manner, the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister announced on Tuesday the creation of a young contract of engagement. Our ambition is that every young person can find a way to employment. Economic recovery must benefit all, including young people who are not in a position to return to work alone. For them, we will therefore propose accompaniments of an intensity unmatched so far, with a systematic implementation throughout the course. The youth employment contract, which will be open to young people under 26 years of age without employment or training, replaces and harmonizes existing arrangements. Proposed by all operators, with common rules and requirements, it will take the form of intensive support from 15 to 20 hours per week of activation with a single reference who will mobilise all the solutions that the young person needs to find a job. That's the condition to be effective. The person who is ready to take part in this course will be able to receive an allowance of up to 500 euros per month. This contract will involve the mobilization of companies to promote the discovery of trades, immersion in a collective work and alternance training. In addition, we will go further to search for and remobilize young people who are breaking up with institutions, who no longer come on a local mission or to Pôle emploi. We will use the field network of anti-poverty associations to provide them with tailor-made pathways. We will also strengthen the model of the structures that welcome and remobilize these young people, by increasing the number of places in EPIDE, second chance schools and production schools. In order to give effect to these commitments, we are presenting two amendments to you today, which I also call on you to vote as widely as possible. In fact, Mrs Valérie Six, the draftsman of the opinion, I will answer your questions when considering these amendments. For young people who are far from employment, including those most in breach, the youth contract will represent an investment of €2.6 billion in 2022, of which €550 million will be credited by our amendment to increase the intensity of the support and to provide specific actions for young people in very precarious situations. A total of €6 billion will be spent in this budget to support young people towards employment. [[Applause on the benches of the groups LaREM, Dem and Agir ens. – The Special Rapporteur also applauds]] As you will have understood, this ambitious budget must allow everyone to accompany in order to leave no one at the edge of the road at a time when our economy is going back, to give the assets control of their journeys by allowing them to realize their wishes for professional development, and above all to invest for our youth, because it is the future of our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u48	We come to the questions. I would like to remind you that their duration is set at two minutes, as is the duration of the answers. Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u49	You are creating a young commitment contract, you say, to help our young people, but as the allowance is set at 500 euros per month, it is actually continuing its impoverishment. Are you prepared to propose an allowance which would be at least equivalent to that of a CEC contract, i.e. the hourly SMIC? Students are also excluded from the scheme. Consequently, those who are below the poverty line and whose number is 500,000 are abandoned. Are you ready to implement a student engagement contract for all without affecting their scholarship, other helpers or parents' income? The youth employment contract is intended for those under 26 years of age without training or employment. Are you ready to extend this scheme to all young people, even graduates, taking into account the territorial reality, especially that of the overseas? In some cases, you propose renewal contracts. Are you prepared to accept that the youth employment contract may last up to three years, a sufficient period to insert a young person? On the other hand, let us not forget the families who receive social minima. Are you ready to ensure that the youth engagement contract has no impact on the family quotient? I come to the question of overseas. Remember that in La Réunion, for example, many parents do not have the means to financially help their children who want to pursue their studies. Young people are abandoned, lost. Many graduates do not find work either. We must help them, reach out to them and not forget them. All young people must believe in their dreams and be able to realize them. Madam Minister, are you ready to launch a debate on this subject and to adapt your solutions to the situation in the overseas countries and territories? These questions deserve answers...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u50	Mr. Member, thank you.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u51	...unless your device is a com' on the way to the presidential elections.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u52	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u53	I am not sure that we can agree on how best to meet the needs of our youth.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u54	We can discuss it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u55	However, I agree with you that special attention will have to be paid to the implementation of the youth employment contract in the overseas territories, where the unemployment rate is unfortunately higher than in metropolitan France. You will have understood, the economy is leaving very quickly, the hirings are numerous, many companies complain of not being able to recruit. In this context, however, it is known that some young people will not be able to find a job alone. That is why, despite the economic recovery and even though youth unemployment has returned not only to its level before the health crisis but to that of 2008, we want to continue to put the package to support young people by mobilising €6 billion in support of young people's occupational integration in 2022, which allows answers to more than 1 million of them. We therefore strengthen the means to accompany, with unparalleled intensity, young people who are not in employment, education or training. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group. – The Special Rapporteur also applauds]] In this respect, I would like to remove any ambiguity: a young person who has embarked on a career in higher education but has obtained no employment will be able to benefit entirely from the youth employment contract. We will have the opportunity to come back to this during the debate, we are determined not to leave any young people at the edge of the road.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u56	Mrs Caroline Janvier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u57	The work and employment mission we are looking at today reflects the state's commitments to integration and the people furthest from employment – the long-term unemployed, young people without qualifications or disabled workers. But another issue needs to be highlighted: the employment of experienced workers, that of older workers. The problem is both dramatic and structural, as the figures show. While the employment rate of the 50-54 age group is still equivalent to that of the 25-49 age group, the situation is strong from that age. The 55-59 age group is now only 72% working, a rate that collapses to 31% for the 60-64 age group. The parliamentary mission entrusted to our colleagues Didier Martin, Stéphane Viry and Valérie Six enabled us to draw up an assessment of the policy carried out on this issue and to draw up numerous proposals. The main challenge, of course, is to encourage companies to keep their most experienced employees. They sometimes tend to separate themselves from them because they consider them too expensive – indeed, in France, wage increases are often linked to seniority. In order to encourage companies to anticipate this problem, the Government is proposing, within the framework of this mission, senior support for professionalization contracts, in the amount of 2000 euros. However, in addition to this measure, I would have liked to hear from you, Madam Minister, your ambitions regarding the employability of experienced workers.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u58	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u59	I'll be right with you, Congresswoman. Maintaining seniors in employment is a very important issue in our country. In view of the increase in life expectancy, it is certain that the French will have to work longer and we must therefore prepare for the extension of the duration of activity. The employment rate of seniors aged 55-64 in our country is six points below the EU average. We do not draw enough on the experience of these employees; We do not use the full potential of our fellow citizens. I think, however, that we should not be fatalistic. In large part as a result of pension reforms, the employment rate for the 55-59 year-olds increased by more than 24 percentage points between 2000 and 2020. This development is encouraging, but we cannot be content with it. I repeat: maintaining the employment of seniors is one of the priority projects of the coming years. The recent reports on this subject – in particular the one you mentioned, which emerged last September from the work of the fact-finding mission of your Committee on Social Affairs on the employment of experienced workers – all rightly underline the need to adopt a systemic and multidimensional approach. We need to use all available levers related to industries and businesses to strengthen incentives and remove barriers to the retention of older people; to better prevent professional wear and tear; to further encourage access to lifelong vocational training and facilitate access to retraining; to change the representations on the place of seniors in the company. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on several benches of the Dem group]] We will do so throughout working life to promote access to and retention of employment at every stage in order to enable all our citizens to make the best use of their capacities in the labour market.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u60	Mr Boris Vallaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u61	Taking into account this fifth PLF of the quinquennium, the total loss of earnings for Pôle emploi under its public service missions amounts, if I calculate correctly, to 1,259 billion euros, and I believe that this is the case. In a single quinquennium, you have withdrawn from Pôle Emploi a full year of subsidies for public service charges! During the debates in committee, the majority members stated that there was no savings on this major player in the public employment service. Madam Minister, I wanted to reread the budget bruises of the Labour and Employment Mission published since the beginning of the quinquennium to take stock of the evolution of the appropriations paid to Pôle emploi under this grant. They are systematically falling. This is how this is justified. In the PLF for 2019, it is "to take into account the productivity efforts undertaken by the operator in the exercise of his responsibilities, in particular the optimization of the processing of back office platforms and support functions, as well as the increased digitalisation of the support of the most autonomous job seekers". Savings! In the PLF for 2020, it is "to take into account in particular the continued productivity efforts undertaken by the operator in the exercise of his responsibilities". Savings! In the PLF for 2021, it is again "to take into account in particular the continued productivity efforts undertaken by the operator in the exercise of his responsibilities". Savings! In the PLF for 2022, and the formula ends up showing a certain lack of imagination, it is still "to take into account in particular the continued productivity efforts undertaken by the operator in the exercise of his duties". Savings! Minister, can you explain to the members of the majority that the government did well during the quinquennium of huge savings on the back of Pôle Emploi on the basis of productivity gains?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u62	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u63	We will probably have an opportunity to come back to this issue because you have tabled several amendments that relate to it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u64	I hope so!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u65	Perhaps you don't know that, but the employment subsidy is governed by a tripartite agreement between the State, the Employment Department and the UNEDIC. The resources allocated to Pôle emploi comply with this agreement. For our part, we believe that the social partners play an important role in our country; Therefore, when an agreement is signed between the State, UNEDIC and Pôle Emploi, we implement it. In the initial finance law for 2021, the grant amounted to 1_149.9 million euros; in the PLF for 2022, it amounts to 1_064.45 million in accordance with the commitments of the Convention. However, you will not have escaped that additional resources are being allocated to Pôle Emploi as part of the recovery plan to enable the establishment to deal with the consequences of the health crisis. An allocation first offsets the mechanical decrease in the UNEDIC contribution in 2022, which is a consequence of the contraction of the payroll in 2020. It also makes it possible to ensure the increase in the supply of services for long-term job seekers – I am thinking in particular of the remobilisation pact. Pôle Emploi will also benefit from European funding under the EU-REACT programme – an initiative to support the recovery of cohesion and the territories of Europe – amounting to EUR 463 million, which will be used to finance, in particular, 1300 advisers dedicated to supporting young people, the rise in overall support, or the implementation of a health benefit for long-term applicants facing psychological barriers. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on several benches of the Dem group]] It is certainly true that we do not see all these resources in the appropriations we are debating this morning, but I can assure you that we are careful that Pôle Emploi can best support job seekers, particularly long-term job seekers, and that the institution plays its full role in supporting young people.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u66	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u67	I call the funds from the Labour and Employment Mission, entered in Statement B. I have before me five identical amendments, Nos 2420, 2425, 2430, 2433 and 2490. The Minister has the floor to support Amendment No. 2420.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u68	You will allow me, Mr President, to defend, together with this amendment of appropriations, its 'literary' version, Amendment No 2419, which will be called later. The President of the Republic and the Prime Minister announced last Tuesday the launch of a youth employment contract in order to transform young people's employability in a sustainable way. Our ambition is that every young person can find a way to employment. We will offer accompaniments of unprecedented intensity so far with access to systematic activity throughout the course. The aim of the amendment is to create the youth contract. It is not one more scheme but a comprehensive one that integrates all the solutions that have proven their worth in terms of the integration of young people within the framework of the "one young person, one solution" plan. The contract of engagement is of course based on the success of the youth guarantee: it will be proposed by all operators, including Pôle Emploi, and will be based on the same rules and requirements. It will be aimed at young people under 26 years of age who are permanently unemployed or without training. It is a right open to all those who have not yet gained sustainable employment. There will be only one condition to benefit from it: to agree to embark on an intensive career path towards employment. The person who is ready to take part in this course will be able to receive an allowance of up to 500 euros per month. Mr Cherpion is no longer in the Chamber, but I would point out, Mrs Six, that this contract is a logical matter of rights and duties. The youth employment contract may also be implemented by third parties in the public employment service. Too many young people breaking up with institutions no longer come to Pôle Emploi and local missions. To get them and remobilize them, we will rely on all those who can compete. I am thinking in particular of the anti-poverty associations that are able to go to these young people on the ground – for example those that work towards integration through sport. We will offer comprehensive support that will address both employment and health problems as well as those related to access to housing. The amendment allows these bodies to implement the youth contract. As a result of the work carried out under the Youth Guarantee, we will allow young people with disabilities to benefit from the contract of employment up to the age of 29. Finally, we set a date for the entry into force of the contract of engagement on 1 March 2022. In the coming months, operators will be able to recruit and train additional advisers. This step is essential to intensify the support of young people. We will sign the decrees implementing the law at the beginning of 2022 to allow the start of the scheme throughout France on 1 March 2022. However, the budgets voted in the framework of the PLF for 2022 will make it possible to reshape the routes by intensifying them from the beginning of 2022. To implement the youth engagement contract, we are increasing the PLF's appropriations by €550 million in order to strengthen the public employment service and thus step up the monitoring of young people under contract of employment. Our goal is to be able to offer each of these young people between 15 and 20 hours of activity per week with a unique reference and personalized accompaniment. A total of EUR 268 million in commitment authorisations (EA) and payment appropriations (CP) will be spent on strengthening employment resources and local missions. The teams dedicated to the youth employment contract in Pôle Emploi will thus be strengthened by 900 jobs. These appropriations will also make it possible to pay an allowance to all young people covered by this scheme, if they need it and if they meet their commitments. As a result, EUR 140 million is added to the appropriations already budgeted. In addition, EUR 122.8 million complements the appropriations in order to seek out and accompany 40,000 young people who have broken up. Some young people who are far from employment experience difficulties, sometimes since childhood, which lead them to lose confidence in institutions. It is essential to meet these young people who no longer believe in it. We will therefore strengthen and complement the pathways for them by relying on the anti-poverty associations, in particular those mobilized in the ICP calls for projects "100% inclusion" and "identification of invisibles". I hear doubts or criticisms about these associations, including from you, Mr Vallaud. That surprises me. I really want to say my full support for these associations, which have very good results, two thirds of which are positive for the young people who have followed all the courses. We will also strengthen the structures that welcome and remobilise young people away from employment: €23.1 million will be spent on financing the network of EPIDE centres and €4.7 million on the network of production schools. These schools offer a model of access to qualification and an integration model based on a working alternance pedagogy, that of "doing to learn". These institutions have proved their effectiveness in the same way as second chance schools. We hope that this solution will be fully mobilised within the framework of the youth engagement contract for young people who have broken up. Finally, we want to develop a tool to diagnose the situation of young people and to propose a digital application that simplifies information on the youth engagement contract, dialogue between young people and their counsellor, and access to modules and solutions. To this end, the amendment provides for EUR 20 million in EA and CP. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on several benches of the Dem group. – The Special Rapporteur also applauds]] With these new appropriations, EUR 2.6 billion will be mobilised for the young commitment contract.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u69	The Special Rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 2425.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u70	Everything has been said, Madam Minister. You have described in detail the young contract of engagement that we all expected. I thank you for having taken into account the proposals and suggestions of the majority to really accompany all these young people who want to find jobs and training, all those young people who are looking for a project. I see that we are fortunate that young people are following our debates from the public forums. This contract may be for you! I also congratulate you, Madam Minister, for having had the political courage not to fall into the ease of choosing a young RSA – some amendments are still trying to do so. Today, we really forgot the A of the RSA...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u71	Speak the word!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u72	We want better than a young RSA; We want more. I remember three things about the young contract of engagement. First of all, there is the "go to" that takes into account field associations because they know where the young people are. Then there is the fact that we don't invent anything: we rely on everything that already exists, on all the tools available to us by strengthening their role: Employment centre, local missions, EPIDE, production schools, second chance schools... [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on many benches of the Dem group]] Finally, there is a real commitment of the young person we embark with us and who plays the game. If he does not play the game, the logic of rights and duties will apply: we, we will have done the right thing, will continue his path without us. On the other hand, we must be at the side of every young person who wants to go to a job, a training and a project. Regardless of the amounts; It doesn't matter what the numbers are. As the minister said, the essential thing is not to leave anyone on the side of the road. We'll be here to see to it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u73	Mrs Sylvie Charière has the floor to support Amendment No. 2430.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u74	This is an amendment by the Republic Group on the move. Thank you, Minister, for the very long work you have done. It makes it possible to achieve today. The Government is proposing an ambitious project and is putting the means into it. However, in order for no young people to stay at the edge of the road, other actors will have to contribute to the deployment of the proposed public policy. I am thinking of local and local elected representatives: they will participate in the identification of young people, the structuring of the "go towards" and the synergy of the local actors concerned. The departments, thanks to their social skills, will also be able to contribute to the removal of peripheral barriers, for example in the field of special education, and to the care of young people in great difficulty. The regions responsible for training will also have to be on hand to ensure that a suitable offer is offered in each territory, which will enable the young person to return to the path of qualifying training. Finally, the economic world, which has the ambition to exercise social responsibility, will have to offer young people benevolent immersions. This alliance of actors, this human chain, is the key to the success of the youth engagement contract. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] With its amendment, the Government shows that youth is its priority. It attests both to the desire to support young people in the face of precariousness, and to diversify the modes of care in order to make tailor-made and ultimately enable our youth to build a destiny.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u75	I call Mrs Michèle de Vaucouleurs to support Amendment No. 2433.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u76	This amendment by the Dem Group supplements, to the tune of EUR 546 million, the appropriations already entered in the draft finance law in order to ensure the full financing of the proposed reform for the support of the young people most in difficulty of integration, the specificity of this reform being to offer a comprehensive support modality, regardless of the structure that accompanies them. Thus, the appropriations under programme 102 will be increased to strengthen the public employment service and to step up the monitoring of those now under a young commitment contract for an amount of EUR 268 million in commitment authorisations and payment appropriations, regardless of where they are accompanied – Employment, local missions or third party actors in support. Provision is also made for the payment of a differential allowance to young people under a youth contract when they need it and meet their commitments. In addition, the most difficult young people will be able to benefit from monitoring within the EPIDEs, whose appropriations are increased for this purpose by EUR 118 million in commitment authorisations and by EUR 23.1 million in payment appropriations. It should be noted, because it is original, that a tool for diagnosing the situation of young people, which will be shared by all operators, and the development of a digital application that will simplify the information on the youth engagement contract and thus facilitate dialogue with its advisor. Finally, the appropriations under programme 103 will increase the allocation to production schools and strengthen the employment and EPIDE teams.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u77	Mr Paul Christophe has the floor to support Amendment No. 2490.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u78	Madam Minister, you have reminded us of the dynamics and efficiency of the "one young, one solution" scheme, and we can only be pleased to see it abounded with an additional EUR 500 million to reach EUR 2.6 billion. Of course, the Group of the European People's Party wanted to associate itself with this amendment. You also recalled that €6 billion will be spent on supporting young people, and we can only welcome this considerable effort. Even if, as I said earlier, there are still things to build, these 6 billion will contribute to it. Northern Departmental Advisor, along with my colleague Charlotte Parmentier-Lecocq, I pay particular attention to young people from child welfare. This new arrangement will strengthen the arsenal at our disposal to better accompany them. Already weakened by life today, let them not be weakened by employment tomorrow.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u79	What is the opinion of the committee on these identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u80	Of course it's a favorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u81	The draftsman has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u82	I have no doubt about the Government's willingness to do so, but I regret that we did not get to know this project in detail a week ago in committee. This would have allowed us to discuss it before the public session, in connection with our local missions, the Employment Department and all other bodies concerned. This morning, I interviewed a local mission manager who replied: "I don't see the difference with the youth guarantee run by local missions for about five years. »
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u83	It's shorter!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u84	He added: "It is our daily life and it is a shame that we have not been associated as much as we would have wished. » I know, Madam Minister, that you are going to give me some answers, but these are the thoughts I give you. First of all, the Prime Minister insisted that the youth contract will replace the existing arrangements. Apart from the youth guarantee, what other mechanisms are we talking about? What, then, are the public or private bodies involved in the youth contract? You have, of course, responded in part by mentioning associations, but can private bodies whose jobs it is they be asked to go and look for these young people who are invisible, to whom we are very attentive, to carry out measures to accompany them towards employment? Furthermore, I assume that the duration of the accompaniment will be specified by regulation. Can you tell us more? Finally, why is the amount of what will be paid to the young person under the new scheme not the same as the amount paid under the youth guarantee? I know that there is already a difference in the amount depending on whether the person concerned is in a young guarantee or in a contract of accompaniment, but could we not standardize all this? Many other questions could be asked. So, what do you put behind the words "sustainable jobs", knowing that it is a real concern to accompany young people in precarious employment and who are unable to get out of it?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u85	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u86	Madam Minister, this is rafistolage, a last-minute DIY not at all at the height of the double price that young people paid during the covid crisis: to be confined to protect the elderly and, instead of being rewarded, to stand up for food parcels!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u87	The contract is not a reward!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u88	[[Claims on several banks of the LaREM Group]] [[Same movements]] When I spoke on the subject in the spring, I was told that the President had just committed himself to a universal youth guarantee, evoking a million young people concerned... In the end, there will be only 100,000 more in addition to the others, at the risk that young people and their trainers will lose even more, especially since they will be subject to many conditions. And it is in a country where there are 1.5 million NEETs, these young people who are neither students, nor in training nor in employment, and of whom a third are in a situation of great insecurity, of great poverty, and will not be covered! And where are the 500,000 poor students in your device? Nowhere, since you don't plan for them. I would like to point out that the Youth Policy Guidance Council was calling for the criteria and the limitation to be lifted in time so that the youth guarantee is truly universal – and you are content with a com 'opportunity by renaming it as a young contract of engagement, when a real contract of engagement for the youth society is needed. We're not there at all this morning!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u89	Please conclude, my colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u90	Last point: I regret that we cannot have a real debate on the scope of what you are proposing, Madam Minister, because on an amendment, we can only make a small two-minute intervention.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u91	Mr Boris Vallaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u92	First of all, one observation: there are so many references to decrees that there is the impression of an order enabling the Government to legislate on its own. It is true that much was expected of this commitment by the President of the Republic, who had announced to us a universal youth guarantee. She's obviously nothing universal. According to my figures, 835,000 young people are not in employment, training or education when your press kit quotes the figure of one million, which is even more overwhelming. In other words, hundreds of thousands of young people will not be entitled to this support. On the other hand, many students go to food banks – I would remind you that the average amount of a scholarship is 183 euros – but there is nothing planned for them; There is also nothing for the precarious young people who follow the low paid and part-time jobs, since they are not permanently far from employment. In addition, everything remains to be done with regard to accompaniment. The work done in this area by Pôle Emploi and by associations is not the same as that done, for many years now and very well, by the local missions. Our colleague Christophe spoke of ESA's children: they also need medical and social support, because this is a very important issue. But the conditions you are setting will exclude the most fragile fairly quickly, and they will not be able to catch up with the running train. I confirm what my colleague Mr Ruffin has said: if we add up the 200000 young people's guarantees and the 100,000 young people in intensive support by Pôle Emploi, it appears that you have budgeted for an additional 100,000 young people. Actually, the account isn't there.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u93	You can't count!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u94	Mr. Thomas Rudigoz has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u95	Listening to Mr Ruffin and Mr Vallaud, we have the impression that nothing has been done for our youth since the beginning of this legislature. I am not going to draw up a list, but I will only recall the plan "1 young, 1 solution", and the record number of apprenticeship contracts beat last year, contracts that constitute a real response to our youth to enable him to obtain a qualification and access to employment. [[Applause on many benches of the LaREM group. – Mme Michèle de Vaucouleurs also applauds]] The young contract of engagement is a new tool which – I would like to stress because I am very fond of it, as is the case with Mrs Mörch, Sandrine Mörch and many other colleagues – takes into account the production schools. With your amendment, Madam Minister, and with the support of Industry Minister Agnes Pannier-Runacher, they will be able to benefit from the means to develop ambitiously at the level they want. At the beginning of the parliamentary term, we had managed to obtain a first funding of almost 5 million euros thanks to Mrs Pénicaud, and the level at which we reach this end of the legislature meets the expectations of the production schools, which will thus be able to develop throughout the territory. You will have to lobby the Minister of National Education, because I know that there are still some reluctance in his ministry to support production schools.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u96	Mr Gérard Cherpion has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u97	Minister, the intention is good. It is commendable to try not to leave anyone at the edge of the road, we all agree. There are already many systems to achieve this, and I am pleased to note that you are insisting on strengthening EPIDEs, just as I can only subscribe to the inclusion of production schools. On the other hand, it is surprising to see five identical amendments coming today from the Government and the majority when less than a week ago, in committee, there was no word on this young contract of engagement.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u98	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u99	There is either a desire not to inform Parliament,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u100	That's probably it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u101	... proof that this arrangement has been prepared in complete haste, the main thing being to put in appropriations and the rest will follow. But how are you going to bring these young people back to employment? How do you expect to get them if they're invisible? Putting money is great, it needs it, but it won't make them visible. Local missions are doing a very good job in this regard, and I think that we should continue to help them grow up, knowing that Pôle emploi also has an extremely important role to play. But these amendments do not correspond to the reality and the real needs of young people today.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u102	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u103	For many months now, the GDR Group has drawn attention to the particular situation of young people and has proposed a number of measures in various forms; But every time, we see ourselves opposed to an end of non-receiving on the pretext that a young person should suffer in order to fight. Let's not live our youth at the worst! It is true that her situation is difficult, but she may eventually get away with it. You recognize that there is a need for dedicated devices by putting a new one on the table today. But it must also be recognised that at least 850,000 young people between the ages of 16 and 25 are now without employment or training, perhaps even a million, and that the account is not there, as many young people are not covered by this scheme. Moreover, they could not be, since they are not suitable for all types of situations. I wonder how you're going to achieve even your goals. I have already seen on the ground that it is not so easy to reach the 200000 for the youth guarantee.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u104	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u105	We need to know how we can respond to the diversity of situations. Otherwise, isn't it simply a political coup, a com'coup? I shall conclude by regretting, like our colleague Gérard Cherpion, that this new mechanism could not be seriously discussed in the House. The multiplication of last-minute amendments poses a budgetary problem. This is still the case this morning, as was the case after the President of the Republic's statements on Marseilles. If every time the President comes out, hop, we add a line in the budget, it still poses a problem of global vision.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u106	Mrs Valérie Six has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u107	I salute the plan "1 young person, 1 solution" and your willingness to look for all means not to leave our young people without work or professional future. However, local missions are already supporting young people in a comprehensive manner. Through the Youth Guarantee, you have worked to support young people through the engagement of local missions, which receive young people on a regular basis and provide them with comprehensive and high-quality support. I asked you in committee about these contracts: you did not answer. Eight days later, we find ourselves with an amendment of 500 million euros, which is not nothing. How can we understand the subject without having received any explanation before this morning? What's more, it's going to be through a decree. You could have put money on production schools and EPIDEs directly in the mission budget, without needing this contract of engagement, since we already have structures like the local missions that accompany the young people very well.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u108	Mrs Marie-Christine Verdier-Jouclas, Special Rapporteur, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u109	I will allow the minister to answer your questions, but I would like to respond to Mr Ruffin's unacceptable remarks. You seem to say, dear colleague, that young people are waiting for a reward. You always say that we are above ground, that we are not in real life, but it is you who are in this case, because the young people, if you speak to them, do not wait for a reward, they wait for a project,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u110	A job!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u111	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] ... they wait to find their way, and they are supported to make learning, alternation, training, internships. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Finally, you say that it is a communication call: forgive me, but if there is a Member of Parliament who specializes in communications, it is you, certainly not us!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u112	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u113	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Mr Dharréville, you are telling us that for a year you have alerted us to the situation of young people, but it is not as if we had done nothing! I had the opportunity to say again, the plan "one young person, one solution" is 9 billion euros: no one had ever acted as much in favour of young people as this majority and this government. The results are there: 3 million young people were able to benefit from a solution, the employment rate is higher than it was before the crisis, the number of young job seekers is at the lowest since 2008.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u114	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u115	We have therefore acted in favour of young people in the last few months. You are asking us how the youth contract differs from the youth guarantee, Mr President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u116	It's shorter!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u117	We're not here to erase what works well, but we want to go further. In particular, we want a common framework. Today, a young person who addresses Pôle emploi will hear that he may benefit from the intensive support of young people, the AJI, another who addresses his local mission that there is the youth guarantee, and there are also EPIDEs or second chance schools (E2C). No one's found there anymore! We therefore want a common framework with the same requirements, the same benefits for young people, whether they go to Pôle emploi, to a local mission or to an association accompanying the most distant young people, those who do not go to the public employment service. We want intensive support that puts the young person in action from the first to the last day of his journey. I welcome what is being done in local missions, in the first few weeks, for the youth guarantee. I heard young people say, "As I didn't get up in the morning, I used to come every day to my local mission to see my advisor, who gives me things to do in the afternoon, businesses to call, and I got back to a rhythm, I regained confidence. »
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u118	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u119	What we want is to maintain this intensity throughout the course. This is good, because as part of the "1 young, 1 solution" plan, we have developed many tools: skills prepas, learning prepas... We will continue to capitalize on the success of second chance schools, EPIDEs, production schools, and skills training that we have strengthened as part of the recovery plan. We want it to be possible to build with the young person a tailor-made course that puts him in action throughout the course, with immersions in the company to discover jobs, in order to lead him as quickly as possible – you spoke of the duration, Mr Vallaud – towards a sustainable job. That is our responsibility, I think. The aim is not for the young person to remain one year, eighteen months or two years on this journey, but for him to be able, in a context where many companies are seeking to recruit, in areas of interest and motivation for young people such as ecological transition, digitalisation, care, to move as quickly as possible towards these jobs. The young people monitored by ESA are, of course, intended to be taken care of under this new scheme. This is what was provided for in the bill defended by Adrien Taquet: a systematic bridge between the ESA and the youth guarantee. Of course, we want this bridge to exist between the young people monitored by ESA and the new system, so that these young people are accompanied beyond the age of 18. Since we are not just talking about an allowance, we are not going to propose the same answer to students, whose first objective is to continue their studies, and to young people who are being proposed to start up 15 to 20 hours a week. But again, it's not like we didn't do anything for the students: there were emergency aid, 1 euro meals...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u120	That's it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u121	We also take care of students, but the answer cannot be the same for students who have to graduate and for young people who are far from employment, training, education. We therefore design solutions adapted to each individual. [[Ms. Danielle Brulebois applauds]] [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] I find the debates on the extraordinary figures. I rely on the statistics of the Ministry of Labour, which I trust. There must be a million young people in our country who are neither in employment nor in training, of whom 500,000 are sustainable. We address ourselves to them. You say that some are already followed, but fortunately that young people who are neither in employment nor in training know for the most part the public employment service! Yes, among these young people who will be on a young contract of engagement tomorrow, some are followed by Pôle Emploi. We're not gonna invent young people! We simply want all these young people, most of whom are fortunately already in contact with the public employment service, to receive the best support we can in our country, capitalising on all the successes: those of the previous quinquennium, such as the youth guarantee, and those of the current quinquennium, such as the plan "1 young person, 1 solution". The debate on figures is all the more unfounded because it is an open right.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u122	But you don't write credit!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u123	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] As announced by the Prime Minister, at this stage we are considering supporting 400,000 young people. I don't want to do a number policy. Local missions tell us that doubling the youth guarantee is not simple, and we are not going to throw away this guarantee, and tomorrow the youth commitment contract, to lead a policy of the number. We will remain on an open right. We set ourselves an ambitious target of 400,000 accompanied young people, and if more young people want to enter this scheme and are ready to commit themselves, they will obviously be entitled to this support.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u124	Perfectly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u125	I have been conducting consultations with all the players in the sector for months.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u126	And for us, it'll be a quarter of an hour!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u127	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] I will meet the Monitoring Committee for this young engagement contract on Monday and will take stock with the social partners on Tuesday. We will, of course, continue to build and refine this arrangement with them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u128	Mr François Ruffin has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u129	Personally, Mr President, following the remarks made by the Special Rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u130	There is no personal fact, Mr. Ruffin.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u131	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u132	No: she answers you, it's not a personal fact. We shall now proceed to the vote on the identical amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u133	As chairman of the sitting, I would like to point out that it is quite abnormal that an amendment of this nature has not been discussed in committee. It was tabled at 1330 hours yesterday: it could perfectly have been examined in the afternoon or in the evening.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u134	What a scandal!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u135	[[Other movements]] I say that to the attention of the chairman of the committee, who is not here: you will tell her what I said. Mr Jean-Michel Clément has the floor to support Amendment No. 2436.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u136	I could have taken the floor to support what my colleagues have said. This amendment allows me to come back to the subject in order to denounce the form and substance. We have just heard a satisfaction about all the measures taken. I want to say that if any action has been taken, it is necessary. There is therefore no reason to be satisfied: they were necessary, they were taken. I have also heard that we must have a device for a million young people. Now we're at 400,000 by 2022. The 200000 young guarantees of local missions and the 240,000 young people followed by Pôle emploi are already there, so I wonder what young people we are talking about. This amendment aims to increase the contribution to the new scheme by EUR 1.5 billion. Let us give ourselves the means, because this category of the population is the most suffering; It will do the jobs of tomorrow and must be accompanied, long-term and immediately, towards employment. We know that people are outside any system and that, even among those who are registered in devices, some are only formal – just look at how it goes on the ground. The aim of the amendment is therefore to strengthen the young commitment contract by increasing the corresponding appropriations by EUR 1.5 billion. Finally, the amending finance law (LFR) has to come very quickly: this arrangement has not been provided for in the previous budget, so we will have to come back to it. On the bottom as on the shape, all this is very questionable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u137	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u138	Unfavorable. We have explained at length the reason for the comment, and the minister has just made it clear that it was an open right. Today, 500 million are planned; Then we'll adjust. I say again, we will not leave any young people at the side of the road.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u139	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u140	Same opinion. Yes, 240,000 young people are followed in AIJ at Pôle Emploi, but we do not consider this support satisfactory. To transform it, we are adding 550 million euros, because we believe that we need to do more and better to support our young people as quickly as possible towards employment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u141	Mr Boris Vallaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u142	We must return to employment as soon as possible, Minister. Guaranteeing the duration of the contract in relation to the youth guarantee, however, is not the assurance of a faster return to employment, but of a faster return to a life that may be more difficult. The consultation for the drafting of decrees has been intensive in recent months and will continue, you say. It is therefore all the less understandable that the Government is tabling an amendment so late and that it has not been considered by the relevant committee. We ourselves have not been able to turn to our local missions, our employment centres, our integration associations to see what they thought of them: it is regrettable. I will support our colleague's proposal, because if the scheme is open to all, we must make provision for appropriations in order to give it a truly universal character. In essence, we can very well vote for credits at least until 31 July, as in the case of the health pass: we can go over the elections on the assumption that we will still have young people in difficulty afterwards. We therefore support a complete ambition.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u143	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u144	[[Exclaims on a few benches of the LaREM group]] [[Same movements]] I support Mr Clément's amendment. It's always the same: when it's for the poor, it's in millions, when it's for the rich, it's in billions. Since there are 1.5 million NEETs in our country, the minimum would be to move to the billion. With that $500 million, you're doing cosmetics. [[Mrs Christine Cloarec-Le Nabour exclaims]] No more than 100,000 additional people will be covered. This does not respond at all to the demands of the Youth Policy Guidance Board (YPC). Let me quote a few proposals from his report on the "Youth Guarantee of the Future": proposal No 9, "Revising the administrative criteria that prevent the care of certain young people [...]"; Proposal No. 12, "Deleting the NEET criterion among the eligibility criteria for the youth guarantee"; Proposal No. 20, "Deleting the time limit to make the youth guarantee a real right for vulnerable young people to have access to autonomy". Of course, the perspective is also to cover students, especially poor students. But for now, I haven't heard a single word about the students...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u145	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u146	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] ... in poverty who are forced to queue to receive food parcels.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u147	What about the 1 euro meals?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u148	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u149	Mr Ruffin, I can hear that you are not interested in talking about precarious young people who do not have a job or who do not receive training, but that is precisely the subject of the debate. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] In addition, if you were aware, you would know that all the requests you make to ease the length of the youth guarantee or to allow precarious workers to benefit from it are satisfied, since we have already done all of this.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u150	The Minister has the floor to support Amendment No. 2205.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u151	The plan to reduce recruitment tensions, announced by the Prime Minister on 27 September, plans to invest €1.4 billion in skills development over the period 2021-2023. A total of 600 million will be spent on employee training by financing 50,000 long-term training courses of an average of 400 hours and 300,000 short-term training courses of an average of 40 hours. In addition, 800 million will be spent on the support and training of jobseekers, particularly those of long duration. This appropriation will finance: an increase in the volume of training activities, in particular through an exceptional premium for those entering these training courses; an increase in the number of training courses contracted with the regions through the regional skills investment pacts – the PRICs – with funding of €350 million; and the development of professionalisation contracts for long-term job seekers of €240 million, which will make these contracts more attractive to employers through the introduction of a recruitment aid of €8,000. The amendment increases, for the year 2022, the appropriations for action 01 Anticipation and accompaniment of the consequences of economic changes on the employment of programme 103 to the amount of EUR 150 million in EA and CP 384 million for the employee component. For the training component of job seekers, the appropriations for Action 04 Skills Investment Plan of Program 103 are increased by 350 million in EA and 305 million in CP. These appropriations in the PLF for 2022 are in addition to those which will be proposed to Parliament as from 2021 under the PLFR2, amounting to 450 million in AE and 216 million in CP for the employee component and 450 million in AE and 204 million in CP for the job-seekers component.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u152	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u153	These announcements are consistent with the Prime Minister's commitment. The important point about the recruitment stress reduction plan is that it does not have a sectoral approach. All companies that hire will be entitled to take over training in return, of course, for a promise to hire. This is a welcome novelty that allows us to respond to the problems faced by companies that find no one to hire. The commitment will be twofold: it will concern both firms and long-term jobseekers who, with a promise of employment, will agree to start training. Minister, thank you also for thinking about continuing training for employees. This is entirely in line with demand, current circumstances and the labour market. Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u154	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u155	This new government amendment illustrates the situation once again. In the end, we will take account of the amendments adopted: you will see that there will be much more from the Government than parliamentarians,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u156	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u157	...and by far. In the end, we may have adopted only government amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u158	Don't exaggerate!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u159	You present us with a budget, and then you arrange yourself: you make more or less proposals for changes, you add stuff according to the statements of one or another. That is how the budget is prepared in this unique year. Frankly, that's pretty unfortunate. This does not allow for a genuine collective elaboration which would be necessary. With regard to your proposals, I have a question that I had already raised in the rostrum. What place do you envisage for the main public service of vocational training, and in particular for the AFPA? You never mention it. Positions are reduced, and each time, we don't see what is expected for the AFPA. Maybe it appears somewhere. In that case, I'm glad you're going to be able to talk about it, minister. Frankly, in terms of vocational training, the stakes are important. The AFPA could enable us to meet the challenges in all territories, provided that it is given the means to do so.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u160	Mrs Danielle Brulebois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u161	I would like to say that this is a very good initiative...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u162	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u163	... which adapts the budget to the immediate needs of companies. Thanks to the recovery plan, our companies have completed order books and have invested in new production chains. Unfortunately, they do not find staff. In Jura, the unemployment rate stands at 4.8% and we still have 4000 beneficiaries of the RSA. There is a problem in getting people to work. The proposed scheme will allow companies to recruit and recruit staff, while also offering people away from employment the opportunity to take training tailored to the needs of enterprises, which is an excellent initiative. Madam Minister, thank you for that.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u164	We don't say thank you, we decide!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u165	Mr Gérard Cherpion has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u166	Last week, this desire to reduce recruitment tensions was already present. However, the amendment has not been presented to us. However, when we look at the different programmes, we see that ICP is down 13% in Programme 102 and that Action 04 Programme 103 Skills Investment Plan is down 86%. In fact, we see very well that there is a pass-pass game: on the one hand, you withdraw funding from the PLF and on the other, you bring it back differently, by an amendment at the last moment, because you realize that the needs are there.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u167	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u168	I agree with you: the needs are there. But this system, which does not allow us to study in advance the machinery of the amendments tabled, is not acceptable. We could have discussed whether or not we could bring money, or simply reabundate or reactivate the ICP.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u169	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u170	[[Claims on several banks of the LaREM Group]] Madam Minister, you are lying to the Members of Parliament. When I tell you that the COJ is asking for the time limit to be removed, you answer: "we did it."
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u171	No, that's not what was said.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u172	I checked: the youth guarantee is a year long...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u173	What about the possibility of extension? You're out of date!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u174	...and it is possible to extend it to eighteen months. I take up the COJ's requests to "revise the administrative criteria that prevent the care of certain young people"; Again, you say, "We did it." I just went to the youth guarantee simulator site.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u175	But you're not young anymore!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u176	A question arises: "Do your parents pay taxes? " If you answer yes, the following message is displayed: "According to the information provided, you do not meet the conditions to benefit from the youth guarantee". Another question: "Are you enrolled in a school? " If so, the same message appears, without knowing whether the young person is a dropout or has resources. "Do you take a training course? "; If so, it is still no, even though this training would not be remunerated. "Do you have a job? "; a yes – even for a few hours as a self-entrepreneur – and you are rejected. Same fate if we get the civic service allowance.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u177	What do you want to do?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u178	What's going on?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u179	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u180	Mr Cherpion, we are in the process of including in the PLF the Prime Minister's announcements of 27 September. So it's not a surprise...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u181	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u182	... and the adjustments that have taken place correspond to the division of the EUR 1.4 billion between the PLFR that was presented yesterday and the PLF, to be as close as possible to the needs of companies in a time when recruitment tensions are a real subject: these are job opportunities that we do not want to miss for job seekers. We need to act now, and we have earmarked appropriations under the second PLFR and the PLF for 2022, which took a little time. But frankly, the announcements date from September 27th: everything was on the table. The corresponding decrees were published last week, in order to allow the introduction of the €8000 premium for professionalisation contracts and the aid of €1000 for long-term job seekers who are engaged in an operational preparation for employment which covers two aspects: a promise of employment and training. Mr Ruffin, let me tell you this: life is not just movies and simulators. I invite you to go to a local mission...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u183	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u184	...and you will be able to see that 4% of the beneficiaries of the youth guarantee go up to eighteen months...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u185	It's your simulator!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u186	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] ... and that precarious workers can have access to the youth guarantee. But it's not in simulators, it's in real life!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u187	[[Claims on several banks of the LaREM Group]] In order for the Assembly to be fully informed, the Government's amendment was tabled last Saturday. It is Thursday, and in the meantime, the committee did not meet to examine it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u188	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u189	But the announcements are from September 27th!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u190	[[Same movements]] I say this for the chairman of the committee; Since she's not here, you can tell her what I'm saying. I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 2083.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u191	This is an appeal amendment – but it is quite in real life, in response to the concerns of the minister – which is nothing controversial. I would like to pay tribute to the excellent work that is most often done by the employment offices of Pôle Emploi, as is the case in my constituency in Béziers. This is an opportunity to ask a question and highlight what I think is a small malfunction. According to Pôle Emploi, the number of job offers would reach 1 million; It's a record, the news has been picked up all over the media in recent weeks. However, when we look at it more closely, it seems that the figure is not entirely accurate. A few press articles even revealed that it was wrong. Sometimes the same ad for a single post returns several times, offers are not updated and some are even false. Of the 750000 ads studied, 18% have a description identical to the word of at least one other ad on the site. In addition, Pôle Emploi has already ruled out 15% of suspicious advertisements since the beginning of 2021. Again, it is not a matter of controversy. My appeal amendment aims to encourage Pôle Emploi to better organise job offers and thus make its action more effective. Madam Minister, would you possibly have anything to do with this little malfunction?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u192	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u193	Maybe there was a malfunction. The subject is not a legislative one, but I understand that it is a matter of obtaining explanations through an appeal amendment. So I'm going to let the minister answer you. Request for withdrawal; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u194	Has the committee voted on the amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u195	No, not at all.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u196	In this case, it is customary to state that, Madam Special Rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u197	I am therefore speaking in my personal capacity.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u198	President Le Fur is in shape!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u199	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u200	Mrs Ménard, you are right to stress the major issue of the quality of job offers available on the Pôle emploi site, or even simply the existence of duplicates. It is important that Pôle emploi can aggregate different sites – it is useful for job seekers – even if this can unfortunately create duplications, since it is known that a recruiter can sometimes place his offer on three different sites. Pôle emploi has an analysis algorithm through which all job offers pass, whether they are placed directly on the Pôle emploi site or transmitted to it by one of its 130 partner sites. This algorithm allows it to remove a large number of duplicates, and also to identify and exclude offers with illegal criteria. On the other hand, some partner sites publish duplicate offers that can pass through the algorithm, due to slight modifications. Pôle emploi pays attention to any reports to ask its partners to pay more attention to the quality of the offers published. I confirm that we are mobilized on this subject. I naturally propose that you withdraw your amendment; If I don't, I'll be unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u201	I call Mr Boris Vallaud to support Amendment No. 2153.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u202	To be pleasant to you, Mr President, I will also defend Amendments Nos 2157, 2154 and 2155. The aim is to restore the appropriations paid to Pôle Emploi under the public service subsidy. It is not up to unemployment insurance, but it is up to the State to finance these public service missions which are open to all. This is the opinion of the Court of Auditors in its last annual report. I would add, since you have referred to the tripartite agreement and the informed consent of the social partners on these charges, that the decree adopted pursuant to the reform of unemployment insurance, adopted against the opinion of the social partners, provides for a regular one-tenth charge to serve these public service tasks, from UNEDIC to Pôle Emploi.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u203	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u204	The minister has already responded to you extensively. You affirm the importance of Pôle emploi and that is something that we all agree with – the proof is that we also entrust it with the implementation of the young contract of engagement. I would remind you that Pôle emploi has no cash flow or financing problems: the mission Recovery plan provides Pôle emploi of 175 million euros; a European initiative such as REACT-EU will fund the strengthening of intensive support for young people in 2021 and intensify the overall support under the Poverty Plan. The number of full-time equivalents worked (FTEs) is clearly increasing. REACT-EU will also allow Pôle Emploi to cover part of the decrease in the UNEDIC contribution by financing intervention floor expenditure. In addition, the results of 2020 are positive thanks to the savings linked to the health crisis, and those of 2021 will be partly achieved thanks to REACT-EU funding. This will allow for a working capital levy of almost EUR 300 million. I agree that we should be concerned about employment, but I assure you that there is no problem with PTSD, so there is no problem with staffing or funding. I therefore ask you to withdraw your amendments, failing which I will, as a matter of my own mind, issue an unfavorable opinion, since they have not been considered by the committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u205	However, I had tabled the amendment!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u206	Yes, but you didn't defend him.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u207	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u208	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Mrs Valérie Six also applauds]] My answer will be valid for the various amendments relating to employment. I confirm that the State will obviously continue to provide substantial financial support to this major operator of employment policy, who has been fully mobilized during the crisis and during the deployment of the "one young, one solution" plan. I would like to pay tribute to the Pôle Emploi teams and to the work done in recent months. The level of state support for Pôle Emploi is, as I said, the subject of a three-year agreement signed by Pôle Emploi, the State and UNEDIC. The funding provided to Pôle Emploi since 2017 is in line with these agreements and will be even larger than expected in 2022. In order to take account of the impact of the crisis on the resources of Pôle Emploi in 2022, additional appropriations of EUR 175 million are foreseen under the Cohesion programme of the Relaunch Plan mission. As I said earlier, Pôle Emploi will benefit from European funding from the EU-REACT programme of EUR 463 million to finance, in particular, the advisers responsible for intensive support for young people, the increase in overall support and the establishment of a health benefit for long-term job seekers who have psychological difficulties. Human resources are also being strengthened. We have planned to maintain 1000 additional jobs compared to 2020 for the deployment of the "long-term job-seekers" plan. In addition, European funding will provide 650 additional jobs to support young people. The PLF strengthens the employment tasks and hence the means involved. As part of the plan to reduce recruitment tensions, announced by the Prime Minister on 27 September, funds are allocated to Pôle Emploi to strengthen the support and training of jobseekers, especially those of long duration. Finally, as part of the implementation of the youth employment contract, the employment teams responsible for this will be strengthened by 900 jobs. You can see, therefore, that the State does not withdraw from employment. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u209	Mr Gérard Cherpion has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u210	I personally support Mr Vallaud's amendment. Indeed, Pôle emploi's resources have been declining for some time now. That is why I agree with the proposal to replenish this operator very officially, very directly, for the additional tasks entrusted to him. Let us acknowledge – on this point, Madam Minister – the work done by Pôle Emploi. However, there is a question about its funding from UNEDIC: the rate of participation has been increased, but the level of funding has decreased as a result of a decline in revenues due to the health crisis. However, Pôle Emploi, which is by its nature a public employment service, must be financed by the State.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u211	Exactly! That was the point of the amendment!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u212	Amendment No 2157 by Mr Boris Vallaud has just been defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u213	I call Mr Dharréville to support Amendment No. 1709.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u214	Since this is the same question, it will be the second chance amendment. You announce that the youth contract will be awarded to Pôle Emploi. Still happy, if I can say: I don't see how it could be otherwise. You are announcing reinforcements to allow the operator to do this work, which is also welcome, because we do not know how things would otherwise be done. However, this does not solve the problem that Gérard Cherpion has just mentioned following Boris Vallaud. A subsidy for public service charges is awarded to Pôle Emploi because it is the public employment service. It is up to the State to ensure that it is financed and thus to assume its responsibilities in this area. The purpose of this amendment is to return to pre-decrease allocations in recent years. The State must respond to the urgent need for human support. And if the Pôle Emploi teams are indeed great, there is a lot of work.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u215	Amendment No 2154 by Mr Boris Vallaud was defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u216	The identical amendments Nos 1710 by Mr Pierre Dharréville and 2155 by Mr Boris Vallaud are defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u217	Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor to support Amendment No. 2030.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u218	By this appeal amendment, we call for a halt to the reduction in the resources granted to Pôle emploi. While the Government itself recognizes a "increase in employment" as a result of the various plans – training, long-term unemployment, etc. – and the large number of registrants, it continues to plan its resources: the state subsidy is down by €86 million, the supplementary appropriations of the recovery plan are down by €75 million and the contribution made by UNEDIC by about €300 million due to the crisis, almost €461 million less for employment. Jointly, the press explains that the Government allows itself the possibility of using the private sector to provide the remaining crumbs of the youth contract arrangement. We defend a public employment service with the means to carry out its tasks properly and denounce this scandalous competition with the private sector. For reasons of financial admissibility under Article 40 of the Constitution, this amendment abounds by EUR 50 million the commitment authorisations and payment appropriations of Action 01 Improving the efficiency of the public employment service of Programme 102 Access and return to employment, thereby reducing the appropriations of Action 04 Skills Investment Plan of Programme 103 Support for economic change and employment development.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u219	Mrs Delphine Bagarry has the floor to support Amendment No. 1951.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u220	It aims to create a basic income for 1.7 million young people, or 32 per cent of the 18-24 age group. This basic income should be available to any young person aged between 18 and 25 on the sole condition of income, without accompanying integration as an obstacle to the benefit. The aim is to make students, precarious workers and young people in training, in addition to young people without both jobs and training, eligible, in particular to prevent them from dropping out. We also want to merge basic income with scholarships to integrate students into the scheme. We then intend to set the limit of the allowance for up to 25 years in order to provide better monetary security for young people, in particular for housing, transport and the education of children, where appropriate. Finally, we want to optimise the modalities and the means of support according to individual situations, by considerably strengthening them for the young people who need them most. The cost of 6.8 billion euros corresponds to the sum estimated by France Strategy...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u221	Thank you, Mrs. Bagarry.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u222	... in Supplement No. 18 to its evaluation report on the National Strategy for the Prevention and Combating of Poverty, published in May 2021. Beyond budgetary aspects, income conditioning to meet certain commitments should not in any way be an obstacle to the fight against poverty and to inclusion. There is no evidence of the correlation between the conditioning of aids and the search for employment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u223	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u224	In fact, dear colleague, you're proposing a young RSA. However, the majority has said since the beginning of the legislature that they do not want it. Indeed, she wants a true accompaniment; It aims to provide young people with opportunities, not just an allowance. I would remind you that in the framework of this PLF, we have mobilised €5.4 billion for the "one young, one solution" plan, for the alternation bonuses extended until June 2022, for qualifying and pre-qualified training funded by the ICP, for integration pathways such as the CIE, the PEC, the IAE, the school of second chance..., and finally for civic services financed by national education. In addition, the majority have just voted on the youth contract. That is why I am personally against your amendment, unless you withdraw it: no to the young RSA and yes to all the solutions I have just mentioned.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u225	Mrs Delphine Bagarry has the floor to support Amendment No. 1547.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u226	The previous amendment sought unconditionally to grant basic income to young people, because we believe that this is the best way to respond to the precarious situation of young people – who represent a large proportion of the poorest. In response to this social emergency, this amendment aims to create a budget line entitled Active Solidarity Income for the 18-25 year-olds. The opening of the RSA to the under-25s is a strong demand from many youth organisations – the Young Ecologists, the Young Generations, Let's Go Children, the Socialist Youth Movement, the Union nationale des étudiants de France (UNEF), the Union nationale lycéenelle, Jeunes radicales de gauche. It is also, with its automation, a necessary step for the establishment of a real universal income of existence or basic income. The rules on budgetary admissibility oblige us to finance this measure by reducing the appropriations for certain missions, even if we do not intend to amplify the appropriations for the missions allocated to the accompaniment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u227	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u228	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u229	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u230	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] The Government is opposed to a young RSA. The young people I meet, and I have seen a lot of them since the launch of the "1 young, 1 solution" plan, do not ask for an allowance, but for an accompaniment towards employment, which is for them the best way to gain their autonomy and to integrate into the professional world. This is what we offer them with the young contract of engagement. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u231	I call Mr Boris Vallaud to support Amendment No. 2156.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u232	The aim is to increase the funds allocated for the support of young people, in order to effectively reach all those who are neither in employment nor in training.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u233	Mrs Delphine Bagarry has the floor to support Amendment No. 1546.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u234	This amendment aims to strengthen the support already proposed by the local missions; it suggests that the 420000 young people who benefit from the CAPEA receive a monthly allowance, subject to means-tested conditions, equivalent to the amount of the allowance paid under the youth guarantee. The Fédération des acteurs de la solidarité estimates that a €2.5 billion envelope is needed for such an allocation to be allocated to young people in PACEA. It is therefore a matter of extending an existing system.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u235	Amendment No 2151 by Mr Boris Vallaud is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u236	I call Mr Boris Vallaud to support Amendment No. 2152.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u237	The aim of this amendment is to double the amount spent on the support of young people benefiting from the Youth Guarantee scheme, in line with the recommendations of the Youth Policy Guidance Council of January 2021.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u238	Amendments Nos 1577 and 1576 by Mrs Paula Forteza are defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u239	Amendment No 2035 by Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u240	I call Mr Michel Castellani to support Amendment No. 1775.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u241	The aim of this amendment is to strengthen the funds allocated to the long-term zero-unemployed Territories experiment. Article 10 of the Law of 14 December 2020 on strengthening the inclusion in employment through economic activity and experimentation Long-term zero-unemployed territories specifies that the specifications defining the conditions for enabling the experimentation of future territories "takes into account the specificities of overseas and Corsica". The purpose of this amendment is to strengthen the appropriations allocated to this experiment to the tune of EUR 500 000, with a view to enabling the authorities to recruit mission managers for a period of 24 months in Corsica and overseas.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u242	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u243	You know my commitment to the long-term zero-unemployed Territories experiment: I was the rapporteur of the law of 14 December 2020 which opens the second phase of this experiment. I assure you that the budgets allocated to this experiment are largely sufficient to be able to respond to the specificities of the overseas territories and Corsica, since we had included this requirement in the specifications, and to respond to the first candidates, who will be chosen before the end of 2021 and will be deployed throughout the year 2022. As a personal matter, I would ask you to withdraw this amendment, otherwise I will issue an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u244	I call Mr Boris Vallaud to support Amendment No. 2150.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u245	The aim of this amendment is to upgrade the aid to the post in an intermediate association (AI), from EUR 1486 to EUR 4000. AIs are by far the least assisted, while they have one of the best positive exit rates for employment from IAE integration.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u246	I call Mrs Michèle de Vaucouleurs to support Amendment No. 2198.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u247	If I may, Mr President, I will also defend Amendments Nos 2199 and 2200. Amendment No 2198 aims to upgrade postal aid in intermediary associations from EUR 1486 to EUR 2700, an additional appropriation of EUR 25.5 million. AIs are by far the least assisted of the IAE: while they represent 45% of its staff, the appropriations that finance them amount to only 3% of its budget. However, they have one of the best rates of dynamic exits from IAE structures, with an employment rate of 51% in 2021. The significant disparity between the amount of aid for the intermediate-association post and the amount of aid for the post in the temporary integration work undertaking (ETTI), which amounts to more than 4300 euros, was partly justified by the specific exemptions granted to AIs until 2019. Since joining the general burden-free scheme, AI has been seeking to upgrade the aid to the post. They have made a very precise comparison of the aid granted to them in relation to the ETTIs, taking into account all the necessary parameters. According to this study, the correct financing of the postage aid for AI would be 2700 euros, hence the first amendment. Amendment No 2199 is a fallback amendment, which aims to revalue the support for the post in an intermediary association with an additional appropriation of EUR 12750000. The need for upgrading is real. A full-time equivalent (FTE) in AI is achieved on average by seven employees, compared to four in ETTI. However, the support provided for each employee is no less important because of a smaller number of hours. Under the current budget, support for the post covers only about 60 % of the cost of accompanying employees in integration, with the remaining 40 % remaining at the expense of the structures. The aim of this withdrawal amendment is therefore to increase the aid to the item to the amount necessary to cover the accompanying costs. Amendment No 2200 is another withdrawal amendment, which aims to raise the level of support for the post in an intermediary association with an additional appropriation of EUR 6365000. We propose multi-year support to return to a level of support for the post corresponding to the needs and the reality of the accompaniment in AI.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u248	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 2200 and 2501. Amendment No 2200 has just been defended. Mrs Marie-Christine Verdier-Jouclas, Special Rapporteur, has the floor to support Amendment No 2501 and give the Committee's opinion on the four amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u249	Minister, we look forward to a strong signal to the intermediary associations, which have been calling for a re-evaluation of postal assistance for several years. We need a factual and numerical comparison. I understand that you have launched a mission so that we can have a comparative analysis in order to make a realignment of the assistance to the post. They are therefore appeal amendments. It is indeed important for us that you take the floor on this matter. Intermediary associations do a remarkable job throughout the country and are one of the first employers of people in employment. We must therefore take them into account. The gap between postal assistance for intermediate associations and for other structures, and particularly for ETTIs, needs to be bridged.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u250	The committee did not consider these amendments. Personally, I rely on the wisdom of the House pending the opinion of the Minister, and if you allow me to do so, Mr President, I will take the floor later.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u251	What is the Government's opinion on these four amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u252	I have heard the requests of the intermediary associations and I know, Madam Member, that this is a subject that you are very interested in. As you know, we have launched a mission to take stock of the financial situation of these intermediary associations. I am aware that it has fallen behind, but I am undertaking, once its results are known, at the end of 2021 or the beginning of 2022, to take stock of the situation with the Members concerned and to draw conclusions from it in the context of our budget. This will take the form of redeployment or be part of a draft amending finance law; In any case, I pledge that we will take into account the findings of the current mission. I therefore call for the four amendments to be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u253	Mrs Michèle de Vaucouleurs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u254	Madam Minister, could you clarify whether, once we know the conclusions of this mission, we can propose an upgrade to the intermediate associations as of fiscal year 2022?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u255	That has been said!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u256	Yes.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u257	Mrs Marie-Christine Verdier-Jouclas, Special Rapporteur, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u258	I withdraw Amendment No 2501. I invite you to do the same, dear colleague, taking into account the Minister's commitment to carry out this re-evaluation through a redeployment of appropriations or a draft amending finance bill for 2022. So we will not wait for the 2023 budget. As Special Rapporteur, I am committed to following up on this issue by working with the ministry to take into account the findings of the mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u259	Mrs Christine Cloarec - Le Nabour, to support Amendment No. 2125.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u260	This appeal amendment is in line with those that have just been discussed. I congratulate Michèle de Vaucouleurs and the Special Rapporteur on their commitment. In view of the Minister's intervention, I withdraw this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u261	Mr Philippe Naillet has the floor to support Amendment No. 2149.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u262	The aim of this amendment by the Socialist and Related Group is to upgrade the appropriations for the Employment and Skills Development (EDEC) commitments. While the number of EDECs has increased since 2018, due in particular to a dedicated call for ICP projects, there are plans to decrease the State's commitments in the coming years. Forty-two EDECs exist in 2021, thirty-five are planned in 2022 and thirty in 2023. Budgetary appropriations would thus fall by EUR 22 million in 2022 compared to 2021. At a time when there is a pressing need to support ecological, digital and economic transitions across certain sectors and to support the branches, supported by a territorial social dialogue, it would have been fair and relevant to maintain the appropriations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u263	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u264	According to the information available to me, an envelope of EUR 19 million in commitment authorisations and payment appropriations is already entirely devoted to EDECs in the PLF for 2022. In addition, additional allocations amounting to EUR 14 million under the State-region plan contracts, as well as EUR 4 million under the ICP. These amounts are precisely tailored to the needs. There is therefore no reduction in the budget. That is why I am asking you to withdraw this amendment, otherwise I will issue an unfavorable opinion on my own behalf.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u265	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u266	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u267	Mrs Delphine Bagarry has the floor to support Amendment No. 1579.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u268	The aim of this amendment is to finance the creation of a solidarity fund for the benefit of the self-employed who have a child. Some self-employed workers, whether nurses, physiotherapists, lawyers, artisans or traders, are financially penalized by their motherhood and lose their clientele. We therefore propose to provide a solidarity fund for these young mothers, which would operate in a similar way to the mechanism put in place to deal with the covid crisis. This fund would cover losses in relation to, for example, previous year's turnover. This device could be capped. This amendment follows a call for testimony in recent weeks, at an open office organized by Paula Forteza, during which hundreds of women shared with us all the practical, physical and psychological difficulties encountered during their pregnancy, and especially during the first three months, that is, before the declaration of pregnancy.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u269	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u270	We are all sensitive to the problem you are raising, but your proposal is not within the scope of the Work and Employment mission. I recall the existence of maternity benefits for self-employed workers and co-workers. This does not solve the problem of the loss of customers, but in order to compensate for the loss of their turnover, these women may, under certain conditions, receive daily allowances and a flat-rate allowance. Personally, I would ask you to withdraw this amendment, because it does not fall within the scope of the Labour and Employment mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u271	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u272	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u273	The Special Rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 604, on behalf of the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u274	The Minister spoke about this in her speech at the rostrum earlier: this amendment adopted in the Committee on Finance aims to allocate a budget of EUR 5 million to employment centres.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u275	Amendments Nos 2045, 2047, 2048, 2044 and 2046 by Mr François Ruffin are defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u276	Mrs Delphine Bagarry has the floor to support Amendment No. 2143.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u277	In France, women's menstrual health remains a taboo in the professional community. This concept includes everything that, in the life cycle, can affect daily life, whether it be "normal" or painful rules, reproductive system-related diseases such as endometriosis, miscarriages, pregnancies, and even menopause.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u278	These issues remain invisible while they are a daily reality for many girls and women. In case of significant side effects, a woman with menopause or painful menopause will not turn to her employer: she will live alone and take leave if she is unable to work.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u279	Employers, human resources and occupational medicine are not sufficiently trained on these subjects which remain absent from our culture of society, certainly because of the invisibility of women within it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u280	It is therefore appropriate to launch a national study on the menstrual health of women at work in order to obtain more concrete data on these diseases and conditions, and thus to propose appropriate responses.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u281	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u282	I will reply to this amendment, dear colleague, as well as to the following amendment, of which you are also a signatory and which deals with the same subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u283	It is obvious that all the women here have empathy for the situations that you have listed and we regret.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u284	Men too!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u285	That being said, let us first of all recall that these issues do not fall within the remit of this morning's mission: I am sorry, but they cannot be resolved here and now.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u286	Moreover, it seems to me that your request is already largely satisfied: in an interview given in Brut on 4 December 2020, the President of the Republic announced that the Government would provide very concrete answers to the question of menstrual precariousness in 2021, in synergy with the relevant associations. Several reports have been published and all the ministries concerned are mobilized on this issue, be it the Ministry of National Education, Youth and Sports, the Ministry of Solidarity and Health, the Ministry of Higher Education, Research and Innovation or, of course, the Ministry of Gender Equality, Diversity and Equal Opportunities. Thus, concrete measures have already been implemented.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u287	I repeat, your proposal does not fall within the scope of the work and employment mission and important things are already being done in this area. I can therefore only ask you personally to withdraw your two amendments; If they don't, I'll give them an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u288	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u289	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u290	Mrs Delphine Bagarry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u291	My amendments concern not only menstrual precariousness, but women who are prevented from working for menstrual health reasons. What's there for them? Telework. But is it still possible to use it? No.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u292	This subject is taboo, unrecognized: women do not dare to talk about it; As they are sometimes prevented from working, they may find themselves in a situation of economic precariousness – which is different from the menstrual precariousness, which is linked, among other things, to the cost of sanitary protections.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u293	The Special Rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u294	To what I said earlier, I would add that a national strategy against endometriosis has been launched and that it will also address the issue of women who are prevented from working because of painful rules. The aim of this strategy, which has been carried out by a Member of the European Parliament, is to ensure that this pathology is considered to its proper gravity, in order to involve it in work arrangements or in sick leave for women who suffer from it. I forgot to mention that device.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u295	We are well aware of these issues, which are painful. Let us wait to assess the results of this strategy, because I am confident that action will be taken. Having signed the forum entitled "Endometriosis, a fight between politics and society and women", I am convinced of the importance of this topic.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u296	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u297	As the Special Rapporteur has said, we can only share the concern that you have expressed, honourable Member. It is indisputable that the rules should not be a taboo subject either at work or elsewhere, nor should they be an excuse for discrimination or a reason for ill-being at work. This is indeed the meaning, as the Special Rapporteur also said, of the national strategy against endometriosis, the conduct of which was entrusted to the MEP and gynaecologist Chrysoula Zacharopulou.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u298	However, funding for a public information campaign on menstrual health is not part of the work and employment mission's 111 programme. I would therefore ask you to withdraw your amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u299	Amendment No 2144 by Mrs Albane Gaillot, which therefore deals with the same subject as the previous one, is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u300	Mr François Ruffin has the floor to support Amendment No. 2034.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u301	Minister, you know my interest in the studies that come from your department. This is why the group La France insoumée calls for the continuation of the funding allocated to DARES, the direction of the animation of research, studies and statistics. Its allocation was reduced by 50% last year and we believe that it would be useful to restore its previous appropriations, as it is an important thermometer of the increase in precariousness and the changes that will take place in the field of employment in the context of the crisis of the Covid-19.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u302	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u303	I'm just like you very attached to DARES. I hear her representatives twice a year and the work she is doing is really very important. I am therefore very attentive to the appropriations allocated to it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u304	In that regard, I believe that you are confusing. I will leave it to the minister to explain it to you, but there was indeed a lack of legibility in the implementation of DARES's appropriations last year: I had also alerted the Government on this point. The problem was solved during the review of the 2021 finance bill through a major change in the budget model: therefore, there was no decrease in the appropriations allocated to DARES.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u305	As a personal matter, I would therefore ask you to withdraw your amendment: failing that, the opinion will be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u306	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u307	I confirm that the Government is also committed to providing DARES with the financial resources it needs to produce all relevant studies and statistics in the field of employment and labour. It is for this reason that the appropriations for Action 12 of Programme 155 have been – at constant scope – stable since the initial finance law for 2020.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u308	The decrease of 6.39 million euros in the initial finance bill for 2021, which you intend to offset by this amendment, was due only to a change in the scope of the appropriations entered in Action 12. In order to ensure better follow-up, the appropriations for studies and statistics produced in the framework of the competence investment plan have in fact been reversed in the action of the programme dedicated to it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u309	As the subject matter of this amendment is satisfied, I would ask you to withdraw it, failing which I will give it an unfavourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u310	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u311	I withdraw the amendment. We will check and reserve the possibility of re-submitting it at second reading of the finance bill, but I think there is no problem.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u312	Mr François Ruffin has the floor to support Amendments Nos 2038, 2039 and 2040, which can be put together.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u313	I mentioned this subject earlier in my introductory statement to the review of the appropriations for this mission and here I am basing myself on the DARES report drawn up, in particular, by Christine Erhel, who is therefore from your department, Madam Minister. This report indicates that the average monthly wage of unskilled construction workers is 814 euros, that of unskilled agri-food workers is 878 euros, that of unskilled handling workers of 767 euros, that of cashiers and self-service workers of 859 euros, that of home helpers of 682 euros, that of guarding agents of 1023 euros, that of maintenance agents of 764 euros and that of butchers, charcutiers and bakers of 1180 euros. These wage levels are all below SMIC; That is what the report says.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u314	So what will your ministry do, what legislation will you defend, what regulation will you apply so that this injustice that makes the most useful trades today are the least well paid, actually under the SMIC? Indeed, they are trades where part-time work is forced, where acting, CSDs and precarious contracts have become the norm. What are you going to do to regulate this situation and ensure that the second line sees its income increase very seriously?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u315	This would also help to respond to a challenge, which DARES also mentioned in a note, according to which if sectors are under stress and are struggling to find employees, it is because conditions of work and remuneration are unworthy. This note indicates that the "strong surge in tensions" results from "less than a training problem... than from a problem of attractiveness in about 30 trades. [...] The alleviation of recruitment difficulties and the reduction of unemployment could therefore also involve the improvement of working conditions and, or, in some cases, the upgrading of wages in certain occupations. »
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u316	It thus appears that one cannot simply trust social dialogue, hoping that something interesting will emerge for all these people. I insist, what actions are you going to take for all these second line trades?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u317	What is the committee's opinion on these three amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u318	Mr Ruffin, as you do every year when you examine the appropriations for this mission, you are presenting appeals amendments in which you point out particular situations. We can only agree with your findings, but, as I have already said, these issues cannot be resolved today in this House.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u319	Every year, we feel that we are in default, since you are talking about real problems and I can only say tirelessly that they are not part of our mission. For example, I cannot give a favourable opinion on the revalorisation of second line trades, the recognition of burn-out, the introduction of a public service of dependency, the financing of the tour of living aids and home helpers and the raising of their wages.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u320	We agree that these are important issues that need to be discussed, but the Government and Parliament are not the employers of these people: we cannot decide on an increase in their wages.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u321	I am therefore sorry, but I would ask you personally to withdraw all of these amendments, failing which I will give them an unfavorable opinion. I repeat, we are aware of these situations and we want to act, but we cannot do so today when we examine the appropriations for this mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u322	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u323	Despite your comments, which I found very shocking in the discussion prior to the examination of the appropriations for this mission, I will try to answer you calmly, honourable Member. The report you're brandishing, you see, it's me who asked for it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u324	I said it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u325	It is I who have asked experts to enlighten us in order to facilitate social dialogue within the branches in which we consider that working, employment and remuneration conditions are not satisfactory.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u326	As far as I am concerned, I am not content with brandishing a report in the National Assembly's rostrum to make my personal publicity: we have placed this project at the heart of the social agenda. For months we have been working with the various branches concerned and I can assure you that it is a considerable work that the departments of my ministry are doing. We meet the fifty-seven branches that bring together the workers of the second line, among which thirty-seven have lower minima than the SMIC since its increase on 1 January 2021, or even before. We communicate all the elements to the social partners, whether employers' or trade union organisations, with a view to achieving concrete and real progress for the workers concerned.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u327	You do not seem to have followed these discussions, but, for example, the security branch has decided to upgrade the payroll by 10%. The waste industry is discussing the introduction of a thirteenth month. With regard to the home-help sector, the amendment 43 resulted in a salary increase of 12 per cent. As for hotels, cafes and restaurants, they are also discussing a salary improvement and an adjustment of working conditions, as the employees who work there have rediscovered their families as a result of the health crisis and confinements, and are no longer willing to continue working every night to earn a SMIC.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u328	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I believe in social dialogue! The unions would appreciate it if you qualified collective bargaining as blah. For all these reasons, I am against your amendments: while you are communicating, we are working!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u329	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u330	You are telling us, Madam Minister, that this issue is at the heart of the social agenda. There are probably things to do in the branches with employers and unions, but we can do it here too! Wages are so at the heart of the social agenda that nothing has been done in the last two years – indeed, for five years! – to regulate forced part-time work, which is one of the main causes of low wages. [[Exclaims on a few benches of the LaREM group]] What has been done to regulate precarious contracts, which are also wage factors under the SMIC? Nothing! What has been done to raise the SMIC, which could still be a solution? Nothing! However, Spain does, even the United Kingdom of conservative Boris Johnson is on this path. You could do that, it's not a branch agreement. You have tools, the parliamentary majority has tools to act in this area, but you choose not to do anything every day!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u331	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u332	The continuation of the budget discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-04-O1045.u333	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Further to the discussion of the second part of the 2022 Finance Bill: Further examination of the appropriations of the Labour and Employment Mission; review of the appropriations of the health and solidarity missions, integration and equal opportunities. The meeting is adjourned.
