ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-07-O1292.u1	The President of the National Assembly received today, from the Minister of the Interior, a communication informing him that yesterday, Sunday, June 6, 2021, were elected Sophie Métadier, Member of Parliament for the third constituency of Indre-et-Loire, Victor Habert-Dassault, Member of Parliament for the first constituency of the Oise, Brigitte Bourguignon, Member of Parliament for the sixth constituency of the Pas-de-Calais and Lamia El Aaraje, Member of Parliament for the fifteenth constituency of Paris.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-07-O1292.u2	The next item is the debate on the bioethics bill (No. 3833, 4222). The Conference of Presidents decided to apply to this discussion the procedure of scheduled legislative time on the basis of time allocated to the groups of 12 hours and 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-07-O1292.u3	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-07-O1292.u4	This is an important day in the life of this assembly because we will discuss together what is desirable among what is possible. The bioethics bill is a French specificity. You're there, we're all very attached to it. Thanks to its field and its rhythm, it is a unique space in the world where, without grandioseness, we can say that France makes an appointment with its future. Few countries are conducting this reflection, which involves both the ability to deploy medical techniques and a collective will to defend a certain vision of freedom, humanity and solidarity. At regular intervals, parliamentarians take advantage of these subjects, which are all choices of society. In the face of very complex issues, it is essential to have calm, constructive and demanding debates, so that everyone can express himself or herself with respect for the collective interest. The objective character of science necessarily encounters subjective impressions, questionings, moments when certainty is swept away by doubt, and vice versa. It is the whole stake of ethics to know where to place limits so that the progress made by science does not undermine the principles and values that we share in the Republic. This text, ladies and gentlemen, did not arrive in Parliament yesterday. It already has a long history, if I may say so, and if the health crisis has interrupted its path, I am very happy, as Minister of Solidarity and Health, to see it again animating this House, because it is here and nowhere else that the great ethical issues need to be discussed. Let me pay tribute to your work and thank you, because I know how much Members of Parliament have taken this bill to heart with demand and honesty, far from dogmatism and partisan thinking. It is also the beauty of this bill to bring everyone back to his or her deepest convictions, to his or her unsolved questioning and, in essence, to his or her conception of life. I know that many, on these benches, would sometimes like to go further on certain subjects; I respect this wish, which embraces sincere and sometimes legitimate societal aspirations. This text will not satisfy everyone. He will be judged sometimes too cold, sometimes too bold. But I am convinced that it will be a balanced text, in other words an ambitious text without being adventurous and responsible without being lukewarm. The bill grants new rights and makes the necessary adjustments as a result of technical and societal developments. To grant new rights and new protections is the mark of progressism that has kept the sense of conquests and believes that I have never lost my militant compass, nor do I lose sight of the principles that give all their strength to these new rights. With each line of each article, we have scrupulously sought to maintain the balance between respect for the dignity of the human person, the autonomy of each individual and the solidarity of all. To this end, we have respected a categorical imperative: to provide a protective framework for the child who, by his or her majority, will have the opportunity to have unconditional access to the information relating to the honour third party and to the identity of the child. This protective framework will be ensured by the centralized management of data on donors, donations and children born from donations by the Biomedicine Agency, the ABM. An Access to Origins Commission will collect requests from donations and seek information from the Agency to enable it to carry out its tasks. We can be proud of Article 1. I say this with emotion because I think of all the couples of women who, for so many years, have been engaged in the combatant's journeys to carry out their parenting project. I would like to tell all these women that from now on their parenting and family plans will be fully recognized and that they will be accompanied appropriately in their approach. I have heard sometimes unfortunate comments about so-called medical disorders in children caused by medically assisted procreation techniques (MAPs). I say this without any ambiguity: these words are not only hurtful, and I condemn them, but they are also perfectly unfounded from a medical point of view. With article 1, the French family grew in the diversity of its models and in the richness of its configurations. It is an issue of equality and the strength of republican equality, it is precisely to recognize the diversity of situations, paths and projects of each one. During the previous quinquennium, marriage for all contributed to this movement towards equality, far from the anthropological shock feared by some. I pay tribute to all those who, at the time, on these benches and elsewhere, allowed France to be faithful to its promise of equality and emancipation. I also have a grateful thought for those who, a little over twenty years ago now, fought for the Civil Solidarity Pact (CAPS), sometimes alone in their camp. This was the case, in particular, of our colleague Roselyne Bachelot, who decidedly always clairvoyant. I commend the colossal work carried out in the special committee; I salute those Members who, beyond their sensitivities, have listened fully to French society and its aspirations. What Article 1e r offers to women's couples is the security of their project and the serenity of being able to carry it out, far from judgments of value, far from indiscretions. We have been able to face families from projects that are often very long, with eagerly desired children and parents who, no one will be surprised, are simply parents. To recognize the family in what it has of various, plural, rich, is therefore what this article proposes. For my part, I am making a commitment to you: the implementing texts must be prepared now so that they can be published immediately after the enactment of the law, so that women's couples can enrol in LDC courses as soon as they return and that first children can be conceived before the end of 2021. That means, ladies and gentlemen, that we are finally there. It is not because a model is more widespread than others that it acquires the status of standard for all. With Article 1, we make a clear and accepted choice. By this choice, we will affirm only one thing: the strength of the institutions. For democracy is the regime that looks at the problems and solves them. It is your responsibility and the responsibility of the Government. The strength of institutions and the spirit of responsibility will also have to guide our choices in complex and varied areas. I am thinking of the self-conservation of gametes for both women and men; I am also thinking of improving the quality and safety of practices with organ donations or the missions of genetic advisers; Finally, I am thinking of the development of genomic medicine within the framework of care or research, while respecting our ethical values. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] After more than a year and a half of a health crisis which has profoundly changed the lives of the French and that of this House, I cannot help but see in the return of this text to Parliament the sign of a country which looks back at the future with confidence, with demand and with reasonable optimism which is required after a long and painful trial. The choices we have made in recent months have been difficult; They reminded everyone where the most fundamental values of our nation were. If I say that, it is because this bill certainly changes the law, but it does not do so without a compass and with a wet finger: it does so with the constant concern to respect our great principles. We have before us a measured text which corresponds to the expectations of French society, which scrupulously respects our principles and which makes the general interest the only and only line of demarcation between possible and desirable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-07-O1292.u5	The next speaker is Mr Custody of the Seals, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-07-O1292.u6	Madam Chairman of the Special Committee, ladies and gentlemen, rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to meet with my colleagues Olivier Véran, Frédérique Vidal and Adrien Taquet for a new reading of the bioethics bill. We had the opportunity last summer to discuss this text at second reading. If our presence here today is due to the failure of the Joint Joint Committee, I welcome our forthcoming discussions, as much as those of last July had been of high quality. In the preamble, and as far as the Ministry of Justice is concerned, I would like to point out that this is not a matter of reforming the law of filiation. Article 4 takes into account, in this respect, the opening up of new rights for women, whether or not they live in a couple: that of resorting to reproductive health assistance (MPA) and that of being recognized as the mother of the child from birth. I would like to reiterate to you that this is a considerable step forward, in the long journey towards equality of rights, to allow families to finally be fully recognized by the law. I know that some of you would have liked to go even further by amending the rules on the establishment of filiation in the case of LDCs with third-party donors for all couples, while others, on the other hand, fear that this law will weaken a more traditional model of the family. I would like to recall, of course, that the Government respects everyone's beliefs, whether moral or religious. I stress that Article 4 does not open the door to new practices – on the contrary. It gives rights and legal certainty to both mothers and children, to families that already exist and grow up. It is indeed a matter of protecting mothers, first of all the one who did not bear the child. It is also a question of protecting the child who gave birth and who, in the future, will be able to rely on his/her partner in the event of separation to take care of the child's education and maintenance. Finally, and above all, it is a matter of protecting the child from the risk that the separation will permanently deprive him of one of the mothers who raised him. To this end, I am pleased that your special committee has reintroduced the simple and effective mechanism which the House voted on at second reading and which was then rejected in a stumbling block by the Senate. Now, at the time of consenting to the LDC, the two women will make a joint recognition before the notary, which will devote their joint parenting project. The bond of filiation will remain established as a result of childbirth for the mother carrying the child. In the case of the other mother, it will be established through the presentation to the civil registry officer of the joint recognition at the time of the birth declaration of the child. This system is as close as possible to that which applies to a couple formed by a man and a woman, without creating any discrimination. Equality of rights is guaranteed and the steps to be taken do not require more formalities than those required for a couple made up of a man and a woman. I would also like to thank your committee, and in particular its chairman, Agnès Firmin Le Bodo, and the rapporteur, Coralie Dubost, for reintroducing the transitional mechanism that will allow women's couples who used the LDC with third-party donors abroad before the law came into force to have the bond of filiation established by mutual agreement with the mother who did not give birth. As you know, in the event of disagreement, a transitional mechanism for the establishment of filiation in the context of an adoption procedure has been introduced in Mrs Monique Limon's bill, which I would like to welcome.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-07-O1292.u7	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-07-O1292.u8	I would like to reassure those who fear that this text will not be voted on until the end of the quinquennium. This important bill, which fundamentally amends the law of adoption by making it accessible to all couples, whether married or not, will be considered in the Senate next fall for enactment before the end of this Parliament. With regard to article 4 bis, there was certainly a link between LDCs and pregnancy for others (GPA), since both involved the use of reproductive health assistance techniques. However, as you know, GPA has been expressly prohibited in France since 1994. Today, to circumvent this ban, some children are designed by GPA abroad. But why would these children, who have not broken any rules, not also have the right to a secure legal framework? The European Court of Human Rights (ECHR) also requires us to allow the bond of filiation between the child and his or her parents of intention to be established once this bond has materialized. Since a reversal of the case law in December 2019, the Court of Cassation has admitted that the birth certificates of children conceived by GPA abroad are transcribed without any control of the child's interests or the conditions under which the surrogate mother renounced her rights. It is sometimes said that in some countries this is going very well and in others the conditions of GPA are much more questionable. As you know, I do not wish to enter into this debate. The GPA ban remains an impassable red line for the Government, which simply wants to go back to the jurisprudence prior to the 2019 turnaround – no more, no less. That is what the text adopted by your special committee allows, and I would like here to thank Mrs Aurore Bergé. Indeed, it repeats the wording adopted by the Assembly at second reading while being in line with European case law. By specifying that the reality of the facts set out in the Civil Status Act must be assessed in the light of French law, this wording also has the advantage, compared with that adopted by the Senate, of having a wider scope than pregnancy for others. It makes it possible to oppose transcripts of civil status documents which would be contrary to the French rules for other reasons – I am thinking for example of the birth certificates which would mention three fathers, as it could have been admitted to the United States. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, as you have understood, what we are going to discuss is the translation of a common and long-term work, which must at last, I say, be an illustration of our ability to move forward together on these complex issues and thus offer all children the same rights.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-07-O1292.u9	The Minister for Higher Education, Research and Innovation has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-07-O1292.u10	It has now been nearly two years since we opened the discussion of the bioethics bill together and more than three years since the debate began with the general states of bioethics. We are starting a new reading of this text, the third in the House, which is not so common in parliamentary history. However, this time was necessary because the revision of bioethics laws is not a legislative exercise like any other. Because bioethics is rooted in the intimate by questioning our relationship to life, death, filiation and family. Because by leading us to seek the best possible articulation between the technically feasible and the humanly desirable, between individual desires and the general interest, it invites us to plunge into the heart of democracy and its great balances. There are neither losers nor winners in a debate on bioethics, but only a society that strives to project itself towards the future by remaining faithful to its values. Science is one of those forces that allow us to move forward, the health crisis has reminded us at every moment. One of the major challenges of this legislation is to ensure the freedom that our researchers need to continue to meet the great challenges facing us. With the law of programming for research, you have made them the means to navigate the unknown. This law gives them today map and compass. Above all, you are completing the pact of trust that the law of programming has endeavoured to reconnect with our fellow citizens by drawing the contours of a search that is both free and responsible. Of course, this is a peak line because between the risk of sacrificing our most fundamental values to an unbridled quest for knowledge and the risk of abandoning the healing of the sick in favour of unfounded fears, the path is narrow. It is this path that we have managed to draw at second reading in the House and which I call for on the occasion of this new reading. By changing the mapping of four areas of research, we had indeed managed to solve an ethical dilemma: how can we progress in our understanding of development – which is crucial to treating pathologies with great suffering – while respecting the singular character of the human embryo? The answer lies in a very subtle balance between openness and constraint, a balance that stimulates creativity by fostering trust. In the field of embryo research, we have reaffirmed the major prohibitions while moving certain lines. Thus, the creation of embryos for research purposes, cloning and modification of embryos intended for re-implantation remain prohibited. We added a new limit by setting 14 days for the observation of the embryos under investigation. We have also developed the text so that it can incorporate new possibilities such as genome editing techniques. In the same spirit of balance, the text changes the framework of research on pluripotent stem cells to acknowledge an innovation – the creation of induced pluripotent stem cells (IPS) – and a shift in ethical questioning. It is now less the origin of stem cells than their ability to evolve in any cell in the human body. In addition, the text emerges from the legal blur from the 2011 law, which so far surrounded research on chimera. While explicitly prohibiting the creation of chimera by adding animal cells to a human embryo, the text that you have drafted in committee will allow another approach: to follow in vivo the mechanisms of cell differentiation beyond fourteen days, since it is the duration that has been fixed to study the human embryo. Finally, it takes on a key topic for the renewal of the relationship between science and society, that of citizen participation in the advancement of knowledge. On the issue of re-use of samples from care for research purposes, the text proposes to expand the patient's tacit consent to facilitate bridges between laboratory and hospital. On that of the donation of bodies to science, it provides the necessary framework to secure a practice that is at the heart of the training of our doctors and the progress of science for centuries. The regulations introduced in this area will restore confidence between citizens, doctors and scientists, hard tested by the scandal of the donation center of the bodies of the University Paris-Descartes. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, on this sensitive subject as on all others, I have every confidence in our ability to combine dignity, freedom and solidarity, and to demonstrate that science is not the enemy of wisdom.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-07-O1292.u11	Mr Jean-Louis Touraine, rapporteur of the Special Committee, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-07-O1292.u12	This third reading of the bioethics bill almost completes a long process planned for 2018, seven years after the previous revision. As the bill is finally approaching its final stage, I hear many Members of Parliament and our fellow citizens find it a bit lengthy. Many French people believe that the LDC for all is already in the law. On the other hand, I also listen carefully to those who would like to delay further this inevitable progress on the grounds that there would be no absolute consensus – as if one could dream of an identical text, applauded simultaneously by all, conservative traditionalists as well as progressive humanists. If we were to claim a total union on texts such as those on voluntary termination of pregnancy, abortion, stem cell research and many other bioethics issues, we should wait a few more decades. Balance, yes, soft consensus, no! And let the still reluctant minority reassure themselves: no one is forced to anything, except to respect the point of view of his neighbour. In fact, the time has come: while women's couples can now marry, adopt and raise children, how can they continue to deny them the right of access to reproduction? Of course, in same-sex couples and single women, the children will not have a father, but when these women adopted children, there was no more. Above all, we are fully reassured by studies showing the good development and development of children and adults from LDCs in heterosexual or homosexual couples or in single women. The French slow pace of legislation on social issues means that we are preceded in this area by many European countries. The investigations carried out there give perfectly reassuring results and guide us in the organization of a timely framework.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-07-O1292.u13	Let us therefore re-establish Article 1 which we had already voted for, stating, of course, that national solidarity will apply indiscriminately to all women, without discrimination. Putting an end to the stigma that still weighs on homosexual women will be an honour for us. Of course, the discrimination that penalizes trans people will remain to be ruled out in the same way. A number of other issues arising from this progress will naturally have to be resolved this year or very soon. The surviving LDC of will is recommended to us by the Council of State, as we allow the LDC among women alone. To prohibit it would be to consider widowed women as unfit to exercise their reflection and free will. Today, a woman can decide whether to stop or prolong her pregnancy, but not to extend the parental project conceived with her spouse. Similarly, the future will necessarily lead to the authorisation of the reproductive method of receiving the partner's oocytes (ROPA), a possibility that we had opened in committee at the second reading and then returned to. The text will provide women with additional rights as of this year, which will be supplemented at a later date. He will also provide them to the children. Thus, children born by a third-party donor will be able to access important and useful information about their origins from the age of 18. This will help them to build themselves better. Just as trees need solid roots to throw their branches into the sky, these people, thanks to accurate and accurate knowledge of their origins, will flourish much better. Other children remain deprived of rights and, in the past, France has been condemned for this by the ECHR: they are children born of GPA abroad. While some forms of GPA may be reprobative, children do not have to be penalized. The message should be addressed to their parents and not to themselves. In no way can they be held responsible for the conditions of their procreation, which they ignore for a long time. These children must have parents, their own. And I repeat in our account the commitment of candidate Emmanuel Macron who, in front of the French, called in 2017 to recognize the existence of children born of a GPA abroad living in France and to give them a legal status because they cannot be victims. In the meantime, we had voted here to transcribe in some cases the civilian states established in safe and strict countries, and then the succession was taken by the magistrates themselves. Finally, we have been promised a law that facilitates and shortens the adoption process. It is not yet promulgated and, in the meantime, it is probably desirable to allow magistrates to solve, in their own soul and conscience, each individual case. This revision of the bioethics law enacts fewer prohibitions than the comparable laws of the past. In a cautious, reasoned and supervised manner, it opens up possibilities for procreation, the autologous preservation of oocytes, respect for women and children, transplant treatments, highly controlled research on supernumerary embryos, progress in genetics and artificial intelligence. [[Applause on many benches of the LaREM group]] We can be proud of these advances, even if they require further steps. I am confident that the discussions will continue to develop here in a calmed state of mind, without denying the various, of course respectable, differences. After four years of preparing the text, outside the two houses of Parliament, I believe that our country will grow up out of the affirmation of respect for the different types of families and the improvement of the care given to children who will benefit from new protections provided by the law.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-07-O1292.u14	Mrs Coralie Dubost, rapporteur of the Special Committee, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-07-O1292.u15	"You know that they strap our legs on the table, they don't warn; Anyway, the doctor didn't tell me. He was talking about a shot; Actually, there are four, two on either side of the cervix. At the same time, they are so atrocious these bites that without the straps, I would have closed my thighs, by reflex": here are some of the words exchanged with Salomé Berlioux on the immense taboo of the AMP. In her book, La Peau des pêches, which I advise to all, especially to those who still doubt the strength of the future parent, she reveals the intimateness of becoming a parent otherwise. For a heterosexual couple, having to go through an AMP is a fundamental injustice, a fracture of the intimate. As Salome rightly states: "They married and had many children." We've been singing it since childhood, in every tone... parents are the majority. Often without a question. Why would they ask? When you breathe without difficulty, you are not aware that you breathe. » The silence on the tear of infertility as the trials of the AMP aggravate the suffering of these women, these men, those couples who put their intimate into the hands of science to realize their most natural right: to become a parent. They're asking us to name and recognize. We actually legislate on their intimate, the personal intimate of those who follow an AMP journey as the intimate relationship between parents and children. Intimacy is what characterizes our humanity. It uniqueizes us as a subject, binds us as otherness and defines us culturally. The feeling of injustice often stems from a denial of the intimate, as for homoparental families, hitherto non-existent in our law. With the AMP for all, we create the recognition of the mother who does not give birth. Comaternity is committed. It is a progress of society of which the majority is very proud and for which she thanks you, Mr. Keeper of the Seals, although there are still a few margins to lead to a broader reform of family law and filiation. Becoming a parent, is it a freedom or a right? In democracy, both must, because in order for the freedom to become a parent to be fulfilled, the right to respect for private and family life must be guaranteed, the prohibition of discrimination, i.e. the absence of interference by the State. Denial of certain family realities is perceived as an obstacle by the negative. The intimate freedom to become a parent has been greatly affected every time we have examined this text, either in a commission or in a public meeting. It is the legitimacy of homoparental, single-parent families and in so doing, by opposite symmetry, of heteroparental families that is at stake. Colleagues, remember that every time you put the argument of the confusion between the donor and the father, you harm not only the mothers who will follow tomorrow, the day after tomorrow – at the beginning of the year, Minister – an AMP procedure, but also all these men, these legitimate and loving fathers who have raised their children for forty years. Two years of debate should have made it possible to infuse the message of the 1994 law: the donor is never the father. The otherness that is built up in the delimitation of personal, relational and social intimacy does not depend on sex, gender, sexual orientation, or marital status. The child will be able to build personal intimacy with respect to multiple parental and emotional otherities, responsible for him for life, providing him with care and setting limits, which is far from systematic when he is born of a carnal embrace. In addition, I would like to send a message of gratitude and support to the men who follow an AMP journey because we have finally made very little mention of them. Of course, they do not experience hormonal stimulation, daily blood and stinging, ovarian puncture and then insemination in their flesh. Yet they are also, I believe, affected in their intimacy, especially because of popular beliefs about masculinity. They also accuse expectations, miscarriages. They share grief, mourning, feel the duty to rise up to support their companions in new attempts. So, gentlemen, don't doubt whether you are a man or a father to come. A spermogram says nothing about your strength, your love power, your paternal commitment. If the outcome of the AGP is happy, if you welcome a child, your responsibility will be total and will engage you for life. My last words will be for children from AMP, for some who have become major. You have been the vibrant heart of our debates, of our attention. Your voice has borne. Access to your personal origins tomorrow will be recognized. This is the end of taboo and secrecy, and we thank you, Ministers. Because access to your entire personal narrative sometimes requires fragments of genetic narrative, we expand the initial field of law. Intimacy, between secrecy and unveiling, requires at least an end to denial. Your relatives are clear, without ambivalence. There is no justification for veiling genetic history or gift. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups. – Mrs Valérie Petit also applauds]] May families flourish in a clarified societal climate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-07-O1292.u16	Mr Gérard Leseul, rapporteur of the Special Committee, has the floor. I would remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that the time allowed for the rapporteurs to speak is five minutes for each.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-07-O1292.u17	I am honoured to be the rapporteur of Title II on organ, tissue and cell donation for this new reading. During the second reading, a fair balance could be built around the provisions of this title, albeit less publicised but essential. Each room was first able to take one step towards the other on the subject of organ donation. The Assembly adopted Article 5 on cross-body donations in the drafting proposed by the Senate. He agreed with the Assembly's view that it should refrain from creating organ donor status. Moreover, the consistent adoption of Articles 8 and 9 demonstrates the existence of a consensus on the main ethical principles in the field of genetics. Finally, I note that the drafting of the Senate's article 7 ter, on the framework for the donation of the body to science, is also a consensus. On the other hand, a matter of deep disagreement between our two assemblies has persisted since the first reading. In a special commission last week, we once again abolished the reduction to 16 years of age from which the minor can consent himself to the removal of his bone marrow cells for the benefit of his parents, a provision reintroduced by the Senate. I would remind you that Article 6 aims to develop the donation of these cells within the intra-family framework for minors or protected adults. We cannot risk subjecting the minor to such pressure. This new reading will above all be an opportunity to discuss two important topics again in my view. The first has already been the subject of many debates in this House, I am of course thinking of the principle that no one can be excluded from the donation of blood because of his sexual orientation. At second reading, the special commission had made the choice to solemnly reaffirm this principle already laid down in the law of 2016 but whose application is very unsatisfactory. A specific period of abstinence is still imposed on men who have sex with other men. It's four months. If there has been clear progress, we cannot accept such discrimination, which I believe is totally unjustified. How can we explain that a man who has been in a relationship for many years with another man is not allowed to give blood if he has had sexual intercourse with his spouse in the last four months? Of course, the precautionary principle must be respected, blood donation is not a right and our duty is to ensure the safety of recipients. However, I would remind you that a note published in April 2020 by Public Health France estimates that the residual risk associated with HIV would only reach 1 per 4.3 million donations. The same study estimates that such alignment would correspond to an additional 3122 donors while a few days ago, the French Blood Establishment (EFS) alerted the dramatically low level of blood supply in France. The benefit-risk ratio therefore calls for the immediate removal of the specific abstinence period for homosexual men. I cannot be satisfied with the current wording of Article 7 bis, which maintains the status quo and discrimination against certain donors. Many countries have already opened up the donation of blood to men who have sex with men, including Portugal, Spain, Italy or Israel and even Poland. Can France still be late on this subject? Mr Minister of Solidarity and Health, you promised us new elements at second reading; We look forward to them. I come to the second point: the special committee has, contrary to my opinion, deleted a fundamental provision introduced twice by the Senate, prohibiting any post-mortem levy on a person subject to legal protection with representation in person. Since the informed consent of these protected adults cannot be presumed, how could post-mortem sampling be carried out in conditions that respect their person? The system of ordinary law, which provides for registration in the national register of refusals, appears inadequate because it implies that the person has the autonomy or even the discernment necessary to register with it. This highly personal choice of whether or not to give its organs cannot, moreover, fall within the remit of the legal representative. Finally, the minimum control provided for in the current law – the written consent of the guardian – cannot be maintained, given the termination of his duties on the death of the protected adult. I will therefore move the adoption of clause 7 as it stands in the Senate. [[Michèle de Vaucouleurs and Sylvia Pinel applaud]] Exciting debates, in conscience, are still waiting for us on these subjects. It is therefore with enthusiasm, ministers, that I am approaching this new reading.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-07-O1292.u18	Mr Philippe Berta, rapporteur of the Special Committee, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-07-O1292.u19	I am pleased, in turn, that we are addressing the new reading of the bioethics bill. First of all, let me hope that our debates will remain of the same quality as in committee last week and take place in a climate of full serenity. I am also pleased that, despite the calendar changes that have marked our agendas for almost two years, the parliamentary shuttle of this text so important for the future of our fellow citizens and our research has been able to continue. You have entrusted me with the responsibility of Titles III and IV which relate, on the one hand, to the articulation between our ethical principles and scientific progress and, on the other hand, to research on embryos and stem cells, which will guarantee the future of biotherapy in the years to come, especially for the 3 million children who suffer from rare diseases. With respect to Title III, two of its four articles have been adopted in accordance with our fellow senators at second reading and are no longer under discussion. It is now up to us to complete the drafting of the devices relating to the use of algorithmic treatment of mass health data and the recording of brain activity. That is why I have proposed in the special committee a new wording of Article 11 and an adjustment of Article 12. With respect to Title IV on embryo and stem cell research, the parliamentary shuttle allowed us to move forward, since two of the five articles were adopted in conformity by the Senate. Three articles therefore remain under discussion and a common position emerges between the two chambers on most of the arrangements. In particular, the distinction between legal regimes in embryo- and stem-cell-related research protocols was approved. For example, embryo research will continue to be guided by a legal licensing regime and by the principles and prohibitions of the Civil Code and the Public Health Code. This research will also be more clearly distinguished from that of embryos intended to be implanted and to be born, which are part of research involving the human person (RIPH). Stem cell research, whether embryonic or induced pluripotent, will be part of a reporting regime. These cells are not embryos and are not intended to become embryos. It is therefore logical to include them in different supervisory regimes and I welcome the agreement reached by our two assemblies on this point. However, a sensitive point of discussion remains: research into the insertion of human cells into an animal embryo. I regret that the Senate has returned to the balance found by removing any possibility in this regard. This seems particularly damaging to me because this research is of great relevance and should be developed, although it is of course framed. To move forward on this subject, we must end with a mythical vision of the field of this research: it is not a question of creating chimeras, as some suggest. The scientific approach actually consists in inserting into an animal embryo a few human pluripotent stem cells – embryonic stem cells or induced stem cells – in order to test in particular their contribution to early embryonic development, which is the best functional proof of their pluripotence, not to be confused with totipotence. Without this possibility, there will be no more stem cells in France. At the moment, these researches – which already exist, I would like to remind you – are poorly framed and poorly defined. The aim of the bill is to clarify the legal framework that must be applied to them and thus encourage and support cutting-edge research, while ensuring respect for fundamental ethical principles. Moreover, the major prohibitions are obviously maintained: prohibition of the creation of an embryo for research purposes, prohibition of changes in genetic characteristics likely to affect progeny, prohibition of the modification of a human embryo by the addition of cells from other species. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem and LaREM groups]] The balance thus proposed will improve our level of knowledge, not to satisfy our curiosity, but to enable us to find new therapies tomorrow, heal patients and save many lives.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-07-O1292.u20	Mrs Laëtitia Romeiro Dias, rapporteur of the Special Committee, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-07-O1292.u21	What a pleasure and emotion to see this text bearing new rights at last back in our Chamber! We all know here how many women, couples and families expect its final adoption, for whom it is a source of hope. For the part which concerns me, only three articles remain under discussion, as against seven at second reading. While I welcome the constructive dialogue between our two chambers, I find it impossible to reach agreement on these three articles. That is why, on my initiative, the special commission has come back to most of the amendments proposed by the Senate. With respect to section 29, on the National Advisory Committee on Ethics for the Life and Health Sciences (CCNE), the Senate cancelled the amendment made by the Assembly, reducing the number of its members to thirty-nine, thereby abolishing the opening of its membership to the associative community that we had defended alongside colleagues from other groups. I cannot, of course, share this very reductive view of the role played by these key players in health democracy, and I am pleased that the special committee has re-established the membership of the CCNE at 45, including six representatives of associations. We thus strengthen and reaffirm what is part of our DNA: openness to civil society and the role of the patient as an actor in the health system. With respect to section 30, on the Agency for Biomedicine, the Senate made several changes, including the introduction in the Agency's annual report of an analysis of decisions opposing certain stem cell research protocols. The special committee has come back to this change and has also re-established the Agency's information mission on neurosciences, which I welcome. This better information, especially from parliamentarians, is crucial for further reflection on future revisions of the text. Once again, I would like to express my satisfaction at the fact that associations other than those of approved users of the health system, i.e. associations promoting donation and donors, associations of unapproved patients and associations working in the Agency's fields of competence – but with the specialized object, such as certain associations of people who have resorted to reproductive health assistance – can now be represented in the Agency. Finally, in section 31, the Senate again removed the power to legislate by order on clinical investigations in the field of medical devices. The Special Committee has re-established this measure as it seems justified, in view of the time limits and the particularly technical nature of the matter, to use the authorisation procedure to adapt the Public Health Code to European regulations. [[Mr PhilippeBertaapplaudit]] On the other hand, I would have liked the review of the bioethics law to be approved every five years – a more frequent and better adapted pace to the rapidity of technological developments. Nevertheless, I welcome in advance the richness of our discussions during this new review. Some will probably be the same as others when others remain to be imagined. I know, in any case, that this bill, including the titles that I have had the honour to report, is a progressive and balanced path that is consistent with our values and principles. The work that will take place in the meantime will be based on sound governance, nurtured by the actors of health democracy.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-07-O1292.u22	Mrs Agnès Firmin Le Bodo, chairman of the special committee, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-07-O1292.u23	It is a pleasure, after almost two years of work, to meet again for the new reading of the text on bioethics, after tens of hours of debate, careful examination, proposals, exchanges and, above all, a great deal of respect. I thank all those who have made these moments, rich moments. We can be pleased to have been able to work on this peak line to try to articulate science, conscience and ethics in the best possible way. It was a perilous and very human exercise and we can pride ourselves on not having failed. Revising bioethics laws was a challenge that we met intelligently since never – or very rarely – did we fall into the invective. The revision of these texts invited us to wisdom to know what science can and what we humans can accept. Big ambition. Our shortcomings, our imperfections, our fragility make humanity: it is dizzying and ambitious but the legislator cannot escape. In this area, we must not be dishonored, trivialised or deceived, and I think modestly that we have managed to do so. Of course, this bill, like any text from the synopsis of at least divergent opinions, does not appeal to everyone. But it was written with measure, after all the points of view were listened to in the context of a real and profound work of parliamentarians, which was based on previous work that I would like to thank the authors: the Agency of Biomedicine, the Council of State, the Parliamentary Office for the Evaluation of Scientific and Technological Options (OPECST), the National Assembly's fact-finding mission, the general statements of bioethics opened in January 2018 and the CCNE which formulated its own opinion on the topics discussed in the said general statements. Our work is the result of these multiple contributions and has been heavily documented. This text sets limits – albeit necessary – but it also brings the hope necessary for progress. It is above all a text of openness and confidence that we examine, which at no time forgets these three principles: the dignity first, that is, the primacy of the human person, the respect of the human being from the beginning of his life, the absence of the heritage character of the human body, the inviolability and integrity of the human species; solidarity, which includes compulsory health insurance and equal access to care; Finally, freedom, which aims to preserve the private part of life and thus the autonomy of the individual in his or her choices. It is in the light of these principles that we have examined a number of topics, including advances in genetics, developments in artificial intelligence applied to health or in the field of neuroscience, or social aspirations – I am thinking of the relaxation of the current legal framework to allow access to the LDC for couples of women and single women, the possibility of taking and maintaining its oocytes, or the opening of new rights with access to the identity of the gamete donor for children born to LDCs with third-party donors. The aim was also to strengthen, support the donation of tissue organs and cells, and to continue to improve the quality and safety of bioethics practices. The examination of such diverse subjects required honest work to try to achieve a balance and not to remain blocked on an opposition between defenders of intangible principles and supporters of uncontrolled social advances. The path is narrow between the risk of sacrificing our values to an unbridled quest for knowledge and the risk of depriving patients of innovative therapies by giving in to fears or prejudices. It is not a question of allowing without control, but of trusting our researchers, subject to clearly identified and pre-fixed prohibitions. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups. – Mr Gérard Leseul and Mrs Sylvia Pinel and Valérie Petit also applaud]] It is to this delicate balance that we have achieved through dialogue, listening and consultation with our researchers. Everyone has examined this bill with their sensitivity, their experience, their vision of the public interest. Far from being easy decisions, these changes are guided by concrete, numerical, rational data, but also by more subjective elements related to our encounters, our lives, our convictions. Legislating with our intimate conviction is a pitfall if we go into it for no reason, but it becomes a force if we enlighten it with ethics. I wish us good work.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-07-O1292.u24	I have received from Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard a motion to reject in advance pursuant to Rule 91(5) of the Rules of Procedure. Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-07-O1292.u25	One thousand nine hundred and fifty-seven, My Father's Glory: The time seems so far away, when Marcel Pagnol wrote a book to sing the love of a simple and strong father – a father who has educated as much as he has educated; a father who impressed as much as he comforted; A father who was as angry as he was kissing. Pagnol had a father, and he delivered him to us with a poetic sweetness, so that the image of the father who was his but who could, also, be ours might spring up in us.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-07-O1292.u26	The image of a hunter father...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-07-O1292.u27	Two thousand twenty-one, this wonderful father is now guilty – guilty of being a father; guilty of being necessary for the conception of a child, for the birth of a lineage. This is again said in clause 1 of this bill, which has been removed by the Senate in its wisdom, and which you reinstated, in your blindness, last week in committee – blindly, yes, because by removing this father, it is the erasure of a part of the woman that you organize, and it is a part of the child that you steal. The woman of your ideology will be self-sufficient: she will need nothing or anyone, she will self-produce herself, with the sole support of not a man, but medicine and his test pieces. She will even be born in her old age, because she will have frozen her oocytes to hope to give life whenever she wants. But generating is not a zero-sum game: fewer fathers don't give more mothers. The child, on the other hand, will no longer be simply hoped for. It will be ordered, incubated and paid. He will live for, if medicine does not work miracles, it can defy the natural laws that have governed our humanity for millennia. He'll live, but without a father. Why? Because women and men, adults – they are always adults, who were born of a father and a mother – will have decided in his place as a child that he would not need a father, in the name of his best interests, of course, that you will come out of your sorcerer apprentice hat when it suits you. As this is not enough for you, you continue to transgress by attacking the law of filiation. For this, you are ready to do anything, including take on the worst contradictions. In the name of pseudo-equality between adults, you create discrimination between unborn children – between those who have a father and those who will not, between those who will have the right to do a paternity search and those from a LDC who will not. What are you doing? You're dedicating an organized lie. Whether you like it or not, a child is born from the encounter between a sperm and an ovule, from a man and a woman, a father and a mother, naturally or with the help of science. Of course, I know that you do not like to call "parents" those from whom the children come; "father" and "mother", you continue to strip these words to break the reality itself. You prefer the cold and soulless words of "donor" or "genitor." But that's not all because, in your semblance of all-power, you want to create animal-man chimeras,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-07-O1292.u28	Oh, there!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-07-O1292.u29	[[Murmurs on various benches]] [[Same movements]] ... ignoring the warnings of the Council of State itself, which is concerned about the risks of zoonoses, the migration of human cells to the animal's brain, or even a risk of human appearance. None of this scares you, moreover, more than to blame you on the embryo, the youngest form of the human being, so fragile, that we can tear ourselves to the point of doing everything so that each belly of a woman can carry one, but which, at the same time, is seen as a vulgar pile of cells, which we select according to its "quality" and on which we can do research during its first fourteen days. Embryos that this bill will allow to throw away by thousands – 12,000 to be precise – embryos that have become fetuses that some, here, would like to be able to abort until the last minute, until the day before delivery in the event of the mother's psychosocial distress. We'd cry... The worst part is that you always want more. The rapporteur Touraine made it clear that tomorrow it will be the ROPA, the post-mortem LDC and the GPA. Masks fall, but your transgressions persist.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-07-O1292.u30	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-07-O1292.u31	It is a sad time, deserted by wisdom, restraint and even humanity, which will sweep the entire lives of children born without a father, and which unfortunately participates in the collapse of a society – of our society already in decline. I warn you: it would not be surprising that today's transgressors – you yourself – are caught up in the anger of those who, tomorrow, you will have become orphans. For all of this, I ask you to reject the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-07-O1292.u32	We come to the explanations of vote on this motion of rejection. Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-07-O1292.u33	[[Murmures on a few benches of the LaREM group]] [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] There was no provision for me to intervene: much has already been said – particularly by me – about this bill that we are doing a new reading. However, with my comrades, I have just been subjected to a death threat video showing a mannequin, supposed to represent me, to be stabbed and shot in the head. I spoke about this a few moments ago, but I thought it was my duty to mention it here – as each of you would have done, I imagine, in my place – since this scene of the murder of extreme violence – I am still icy – is motivated by the fact that we claim to be from the LDC. As the video was released on Sunday, I thought that the most appropriate way to respond to it was to come to the Assembly's rostrum and say once again that, like many of you, I will defend the right to the LDC. Nothing will deter me, no violence, no threat, because Members have a duty to stand up: this forum is the place where things are said, and this House is the place where things are decided. The temple of the Republic therefore deserved to come and stand up to it. The video had to be seen more than 100,000 times before we finally decided to stop broadcasting it. I imagine that in the next few hours the public prosecutor will take up a complaint under article 40 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. Of course, I do not confuse this glimmer of violence, this unlikely incitement to murder, with the point of view developed by colleagues hostile to the LDC. I will remain in the state of mind that was mine – and many of you – during the previous sessions: we will present our respective arguments. This debate escapes in part from the traditional political lateralization, even if some are found around religious or philosophical convictions; they have the right to refer to it to make their arguments. It must be repeated that no father of a family will be deprived of his paternity rights and no woman will be forced into the LDC. Rather, it is a matter of recognizing freedom because it corresponds to a necessity and because, experience shows, the education of a child – boy or girl – by a woman – alone or living with another woman – does not create any of the problems that are sometimes observed in families where there is a father and a mother. Some biological parents are seen as child executioners, but no one has ever mentioned, at this time, a couple of women who have also been. So our observations and reflections allow us to conclude that such freedom can be good for society and for human beings, and that it can be very beneficial to children who will be lovingly cared for by two people. What matters in the couple is not so much sex – since sexual orientation is not a choice – but the care of two people rather than one. Parental care is more easily assumed when it is based on two persons. Unfortunately, however, we can also very well have to wear it on our own – I say it to the feminine because, more often than not, it concerns women. Children without a father or a father at home, there are thousands and thousands of them in the country. They will not necessarily be unbalanced, and the bruising of this absence will not necessarily afflict them with unsurpassable psychological disturbances.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-07-O1292.u34	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-07-O1292.u35	We can draw an indication on a point that is important to us. Of course, those who will say that male presence is necessary are right.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-07-O1292.u36	We need a father!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-07-O1292.u37	Humanity is made up of men and women who, although biologically different in many respects – that goes without saying – are similar in their human needs. Humanity being made up of men and women, will the birth of a child in a couple made up of two women amputate this child from a relationship to men? Of course not. Of necessity, he will have two grandfathers, perhaps two, three, four or five uncles and ten cousins. There will therefore be, in its existence, a male presence that will contribute to its formation and gender identification,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-07-O1292.u38	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-07-O1292.u39	... as he will build it by experience – for if sexual orientation is not a choice, gender orientation can be at certain times; This process is mysterious to me but I have observed it. Also, the distribution of genders often seems to me to correspond to prejudices or stereotyped behaviours which, all of which, are a cultural result. That is the point on which I would like to anchor my demonstration. I heard your arguments, Madame Ménard; I know them and, although I disagree completely with you, I respect them. I understand the construction of your reasoning, and I see the link that exists between your conception of a biological truth of parenthood and other aspects of your political thinking – you would find in us similar correspondences. It is by coincidence that among the supporters of the LDC and the freedom of formation of couples are the supporters of soil law – a highly political ground – while the opposite view counts supporters of the law of blood. A long tradition, in the political thinking of France and many other countries, would like to see a biological truth that would prevail in different fields – often, ethnoism is based on such an idea. Humanism comes from a completely different point of view. I have already quoted here, De la dignity de l'homme, de Pic de la Mirandole, which founded the beginning of the modern era by instituting absolutely and radically the individual responsibility of each person in the construction of his or her existence, and denying – which may be shocking – whether one is the object of a plan of salvation or a predetermination. It had escaped me that this book, so important in the history of European thought, had been preceded, fifty years earlier, by a text which fundamentally affirmed the similarity of human beings, and consequently their entirely cultural and social construction. This text is La Cité des dames, by Christine de Pisan, feminist point of view establishing this similarity, linked to each stage of the construction of philosophical humanism, at least in France. Thus, the many admirers of Montaigne on these benches will know that his work would never have been transmitted as he wanted without Marie de Gournay, who wrote a letter document on the Equality of Men and Women. We see the intellectual concomitance between the emergence of radical humanism, the founder of modern thought, and feminism. But feminism as a negation of the social and cultural attribution of genders necessarily postulates self-construction. The same applies to parenting. I have considered the issue from the point of view of feminism because it is probably what makes the debate easier, at this stage in our history where we discuss it a lot. Not that everyone admits it, but the basics of discussion are acquired for all of us. I could have done it from the point of view of the history of parenthood and recall that it was first and foremost the story of patriarchy. Throughout ancient times, or almost all of this, parenthood is defined first and foremost by the rights of the father and wholly subsidiaryly by those of the mother. Thus, in ancient Rome, as well as in ancient Greece, which often serve as a model for you as for myself, the right to expose children, i.e. to abandon them at birth, was an absolute privilege of the father, not of the mother. And it is in this way that throughout history, one has been able to ensure that parenthood, as it was built in a horizon visible to us, was reduced to paternity and that the rights related to parenthood and filiation have been systematically attached to man. That is why I believe that we will not have too much difficulty in our time in considering that we can proceed differently and recognize the cultural character of fatherhood, motherhood, parenthood over the centuries. I will remind you that, since the recent past, paternity has been declarative. "If your wife gave birth to this child, then it is yours. I will not have the bad taste to report the distance that can sometimes separate the declaratory state from the biological reality. Society is able to look elsewhere and everyone is willing to lean on a cradle by appropriating the being that is there, because often we have enough love for it. It's like this and since we all know it's like this, let's draw all the consequences, political and philosophical, at this moment when a request appears. The summit, no doubt, of this way of thinking, which reduces parenthood to paternity, has given rise to many legends and myths that help us to reflect on this subject, but I will start with something that is not a myth: a statement by Napoleon about parenthood that sums up very well what I said to you a moment ago. "The child belongs to the husband of the wife, like the apple to the owner of the apple tree. The woman is given to the man to make children for him. It is its property as the fruit tree is the gardener's. This is a brutal simplicity, which makes us startled today, but which has been the norm for two centuries. After that, more space was given to Solomon's judgment, which you know, Madame Ménard, as well as I, and which adds to the question of who the father is, who the mother is, by answering these two questions: it is the person who is able to love enough to give up the child rather than to see him suffer and, in the case of Solomon's judgment, to be divided in two. In the latter case, it is the natural mother who gives up, whereas in the Chinese legend and in the Caucasian chalk ring of Brecht, it is the adoptive mother who refuses that the child be separated, the two women being called to shoot each one at the kid to know who will have it. These stories show us, to us who know that paternity is declarative, that it is a social fact instituted by tradition, by the codes and laws that deduced the property of filiation – for that was the substance of the affair – that neither maternity has the absolute biological truth to which it can claim for all the reasons of obviousness that everyone knows. That is why I believe this bill is wise. I have set out the arguments which showed that it is not at all an alienation or a concession made at the time, but rather the result, the crowning of a long process which brings us to this point and which will undoubtedly give rise to generations that follow other situations which still seem untouched to us today, as a century ago would have seemed unheard of the idea that two women could not only constitute a couple but be the parents of the same child. It is a process of human emancipation that is being discussed. Of course we may disagree, but understand that it is difficult to hear that we would deprive a child of this or that. None of those who wish to adopt this text intend to deprive them of anything, but instead to add, to make possible, to broaden the scope of what is good and to allow society to be more open, to listen to children. No, in our view, there is no biological truth: there is a human truth, a philosophical truth that must speak at this moment. That is what I wanted to answer, madame, to explain why we are going to reject your motion. We hear the consistency of your point of view but at this moment it is overtaken by the history and benevolence of all those here who want a more tender and welcoming moment for the child, sweeter and more benevolent towards women. It is not, however, that, as some fear, at a later stage the supporters of the LDC would find themselves mechanically in favour of gestation for others. I tell you very solemnly: this is not our point of view at all. We are opposed to it, against some of our friends who believe that the idea is good and that it must also be accepted. I think they're wrong, and I've already told them. I am told: "In this case, Mr. Mélenchon, you and your friends are in a terrible contradiction since you refuse GPA, but you are asking that the children who come from it, however, be recognized by the people who declare themselves to be their parents? It's true, it's a contradiction, a blind spot, we'd prefer a piece of reasoning but what to do about the facts? The child is here, he has parents. This gentleman, this lady wouldn't have the right, in case her child was hospitalized for example, to intervene, to give her point of view, to accompany her, for lack of legal responsibility for her? So, if it is true that this is a contradiction, which I concede, I will reply that I only have to refer those who are the authors of this situation to the moral responsibility for what they have created. For I do not believe, and I will never believe, with some incredible exceptions that may arise here or there, to the gift, in this matter. What has been observed everywhere and systematically is that the GPA transforms the body of the woman who carries the child for someone else into a production tool, and in this regard we will never be in favour of the reification of the human body. That is why we will oppose it. You will tell me, as this is not the subject: "You have a good game of opposing something that is not proposed. Perhaps, but I wanted to tell you this because opponents of the LDC often imply that GPA would be on the lookout, ready to jump as soon as we vote on the LDC. Well, no. It will meet as much opposition as the LDC has support because I am sure that, in this case, we will not be alone. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group and several benches of the GDR group]] I conclude without setting out further arguments that you have already heard, but I am happy and proud to have been able to present them before my friends intervene in their turn during the examination of the text. It is only a question of telling you at this moment, Madam, that I am voting against your motion of rejection in the spirit of naughtling, not you, of course, but those who threatened me with death because I defend this opinion, as well as all those who share this conviction with me.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-07-O1292.u40	Mr Pierre-Yves Bournazel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-07-O1292.u41	We will of course oppose this motion of prior rejection, first of all because it is time to debate, to get into the heart of the matter, then because our action as legislators – I am thinking of parliamentarians of the presidential majority and, beyond that, all those who want to accompany this advance – must allow lesbian or single women to finally found the family to which they have legitimately aspired for a long time. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group. – Mrs Valérie Petit also applauds]] We will also vote against the motion because we have been doing this work together for many years, particularly in the special committee, whose action I have welcomed for the past two years under the leadership of its President, Agnès Firmin Le Bodo. The views were exchanged, the debate took place and everyone was able to form an opinion. I respect each other's positions, but it is time to make what will be a major step forward for the country.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-07-O1292.u42	Mr Stanislas Guerini has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-07-O1292.u43	I would like to share with you the determination of the presidential majority and, far beyond that, of many Members, not only of our determination but of our pride in discussing, defending and ultimately voting on this bioethics bill for the progress it contains. There are laws that define new progress, laws that mark turning points, laws that long after are celebrated the emancipatory character, and the text that we are about to discuss is part of it. By opening up medically assisted procreation to women's couples and single women, by voting for its full reimbursement through health insurance, we are going to change the lives of thousands of women in practice. [[Applause on many benches of the LaREM group. – Mr Pierre-Yves Bournazel also applauds]] It is the pride of this House to be able to make this advance because we must look at society as it is. Today, society as it is, it is also homoparental families and single-parent families. That is why we must endorse this progress. To refuse to see the reality of our society is to refuse to admit some of our fellow citizens as they are. We will not withdraw rights, but add them. We must therefore reject this motion for prior rejection and enter into the lively debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-07-O1292.u44	Mr Gérard Leseul has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-07-O1292.u45	Without the previous work, without the opening of marriage to same-sex couples, the bioethics bill would be anecdotal – and I would like to thank all those who, at the time, kept good and allowed a major societal breakthrough. In the motion for rejection, we are talking about the LDC, and in particular its extension to women's couples and single women. The questions we are asked are as follows. On the one hand, should we or should we not medically accompany single women who want to have a child alone, by allowing them, like infertile heterosexual couples, access to medically assisted reproductive techniques? On the other hand, should women's couples be allowed to be medically accompanied in order to use the LDC as is the case for heterosexual couples? Yes, we answer yes. As far as single women are concerned, you believe that the absence of a father would be a problem for the formation of a family and the development of the child. You forget that according to INSEE data, the Institut national de la statistique et des études économiques, a quarter of the families in France are single parents. In this regard, the CCNE has taken a position in favour of opening the LDC to women alone, in the name of women's demand and recognition of their autonomy. Absence of violence related to the technique itself and relationship to the child in the new family structures... In this case, it is necessary to look at things in the face and listen to families: the absence of a father, contrary to the ideas received, arouses special attention in single-parent families which leads them to surround themselves with male presences which can play the role of third parties and offer identification figures. So, according to the members of my group, there is no danger to the development of children. The absence of otherness in a single parent couple or family is not a problem in itself. It is when society returns a negative image that there are potentially harmful consequences for children. For all these reasons, the Socialist and Related Group will vote against your motion of rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-07-O1292.u46	Mrs Sylvia Pinel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-07-O1292.u47	Members of the Libertés et territoires group will vote against this motion of rejection. It has been almost two years since the Special Committee began its work and many of the issues discussed in this text have been extensively explored and worked out. We have conducted numerous hearings and it is high time to move forward to allow these women's couples and these women alone to have access to the LDC, which is a new freedom, a new right that we have here and that will allow for equal treatment. I would point out that the legislation in force does not allow this and that, in order to use this technique, many women are obliged to go abroad, in countries where ethical rules are not necessarily the same as ours. We are therefore also motivated by a concern for equality. In special commissions and sittings, some still maintain the confusion between father, donor and genitor or on questions of filiation, and pretend not to understand by saying that there can be no paternity search in case of donation, whereas this is already the case since 1994. It is therefore time to move forward, I repeat. That is why we must now debate and vote on this text, which, I would remind you, is not limited to the LDC.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-07-O1292.u48	It is Mr. Keeper of the Seals who has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-07-O1292.u49	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and FI groups. – Several members of the GDR Group also applaud, as well as Valérie Petit and Sylvia Pinel]] Madame Ménard, you thought you should use Marcel Pagnol, whose entire work is marked by tolerance and humanism. Marius took off – not in my mother's Castle, of course. He left Fanny on earth, who is pregnant with his works and will give birth to little Caesar. This one bears the name of his grandfather and will be raised by Fanny and Honoré. And then Marius returns and claims his right to paternity. This is what Caesar said to him: "This child, when he was born, weighed four kilos... These are his mother who made them. Now he's coming to seven... These three kilos more, it's three kilos of love" – no heterosexual love, Madame Ménard: of love, quite simply. That is the philosophy of this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-07-O1292.u50	In the general debate, Mrs Aurore Bergé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-07-O1292.u51	For several days, we have heard words that seem far removed from the debates that concern us. This is what we are talking about: a debate on a forced march, a lack of transparency, a debate on a catimini basis. This seems to me far from a text that has been under discussion for two years now in our Assembly, and even for four years with the French, since, at the time of the presidential campaign, this promise had already been made. Then, we organized the general states of bioethics, seized the NCCE. Finally, we did not wish to initiate the urgent procedure on this text, so that it can be submitted to you at third reading so that a quality debate can be held. I also have the impression that we are not talking about the same institutions – as if, in the House, anything would be hidden from our fellow citizens, while everything is public. Nothing is hidden in our votes, in our intentions, in the words we use or in our votes. The debate on the revision of bioethics laws is beginning today in open session, and for the third time. Let's get to the bottom of the text. Mr. Keeper of the Seals, you have spoken of love, and that is a word that seems important to me when it comes to the best interests of the child, which many have in their mouths, but which many forget in the true intentions that should be given to them. We are talking about a new right that we want to open to women, a right that exists for some but not all. Too many people consider, when it comes to women's rights, that we would have – they would have – always have time to wait, whether it is their economic rights – and that is why we strengthened them in a bill presented here in the Assembly – or the right to be able to freely use their bodies – which is why, in the Assembly always, we have made it possible to extend the time limits for abortion. We wish to complete this reform, and I know that the Government intends to do so. Allowing new rights to be open to women does not, of course, remove anything from men. It is not a question here of erasing fathers, but of allowing more mothers to become, and become, safe – safety for their own children and health security too, since too many of them are forced to go abroad to have access to this practice under conditions which, unfortunately, are not always satisfactory, it is necessary, for them as for the children who come into the world. This text contains further progress, of which we are talking less, particularly on organ donations, which is a vital issue for so many families and so many of our fellow citizens, and about research. We cannot, in fact, speak morning, noon and evening about French sovereignty and the need for our research to remain a flagship while at the same time preventing our researchers from working and trying to discredit how they would do so on one of the most sensitive subjects: embryonic stem cells. This is not about traffic. Each of us, I believe, received today a small box sent by an association. In addition to the issue of its funding, I was questioned by this lobbying effort to say that parliamentarians who would pass the law and allow research on embryonic stem cells to save children tomorrow by, among other things, advancing research on pediatric cancers would, in the words used, trade men and make them "hybrid". There's nothing like this here. The parliamentarians we are want, precisely, to better frame embryonic stem cell research and, of course, to advance research, because it is a necessity for all of us, as we have seen well in recent months. The issue of pediatric cancers should bring us all together and avoid polemics. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Unfortunately, our country is often bleak, and some of us here are involved, in a plot that is harmful to democratic life. The debates we have on the laws of bioethics honour, on the contrary, our assembly, both by the serenity and by the quality they testify to. I very much hope that this third reading will make it possible to do so again, because this law is a necessary law, a law of equality, a law of freedom for more women and a law that will advance our search and, I believe, our democracy.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-07-O1292.u52	Mr Patrick Hetzel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-07-O1292.u53	On 17 February, a joint joint committee was held, at the request of the Prime Minister, to reach an agreement between Members of Parliament and Senators on the bioethics bill. Our colleague, Agnès Firmin Le Bodo, the chairman of the committee, only needed twenty minutes to see that there was no convergence on this text – I repeat: "The differences that have been exposed bear witness to the vitality of our democratic debate. However, they are very profound and prevent us from reaching an agreement. » The two houses, in fact, voted, both first and second reading, on very different versions of the bill. In October 2019 and July 2020, the National Assembly voted in favour of the LDC for single women and women's couples – i.e. the institutionalization by law of the fatherless child –, the self-preservation of gametes without medical grounds, a new filiation consisting of registering two mothers on the birth certificate of a child, the authorization to create transgenic embryos, chimera embryos and artificial gametes, and the introduction of a reason for psychosocial distress for the medical interruption of pregnancy. For its part, the Senate, in February 2020 and then in February 2021, limited, and even abolished at second reading, the possibility of an LDC without medical grounds, maintained the condition of a medical motive for the self-conservation of gametes, replaced the fictitious filiation envisaged by the adoption of the child by the mother's spouse, reintroduced the prohibition of the creation of transgenic embryos, chimeras and artificial gametes, and removed the cause of psychosocial distress for the medical interruption of pregnancy. In this context, the Government, instead of withdrawing the text, decided on a third reading in both chambers. As this will not allow a common text to be reached, as the cleavage is deep, he knows perfectly well that it is the National Assembly that will have the last word: to say that the presidential majority will then have their hands free, ignoring the work of the Senate, the opposition of many deputies to the most cleavageful measures, the conclusions of the general states of bioethics organized in 2018, or even very recent polls – such as that of Ifop published today – that highlight the desire of a large majority of French people to apply a precautionary principle in the field of bioethics and that limits are laid on research that is challenging the integrity of the human being. However, interestingly, 63% of respondents said they supported the Republic on the move: proof that you would have to look at things a little closer. Not content with its manoeuvres, the executive thus shows a catastrophic lack of sense of priorities and responsibilities. The French are currently experiencing enormous difficulties and the health crisis is not over, far from it. Its consequences are far ahead: the recovery plan needs to be reviewed, poverty has increased considerably in our country, entire sectors of our economy and society are being rolled out, nearly 10 per cent of students have dropped since the first confinement, students and new graduates are on the brink of despair. In addition to all this, there is a worrying situation of insecurity, as well as recurrent acts of terrorism. Because the gravity of France's state requires urgent measures to be taken, for which Parliament is indispensable, the legislative congestion is impressive: draft laws on the state of emergency, the prevention of acts of terrorism and intelligence, strengthening respect for the principles of the Republic and the fight against separatism, as well as debates and votes on the numerous orders related to the crisis, in order to allow the necessary minimum parliamentary control in this field. For the bioethics bill, the Government wants to move into force, which on such a sensitive subject is inconceivable. Why talk about passing in force? At present, the French are looking elsewhere, and that is legitimate. However, in the face of the dizzying possibilities offered by biotechnology, these debates concern them first and foremost: it is a question of knowing how to use biotechnology while respecting the dignity of the human person. While the pandemic reminds us more than ever of our fragility, and many legitimately mobilize, not to mention, to protect the environment and biodiversity, should we not be much more concerned about the human species? The profound societal change envisaged in this text implies taking the time to build a minimum of consensus, far from ideological postures. Above all, it is not compatible with the state of health emergency that the country is just emerging. In addition, since the bills are government-driven, the ministers concerned are required to follow our debates and respond to questions from parliamentarians. This is precisely what Mr Olivier Véran, Minister of Solidarity and Health – who has just left the Chamber – was unable to do at the second reading, both in the National Assembly and in the Senate, because of his mobilization for the management of the health crisis – which is quite understandable. This bill must also be reviewed in the wake of the health crisis. The need to limit three times has come, among other things, from the difficulties and the lack of resources in our health system. Ministers, doctors and researchers must give priority to the health of the French. However, the task is immense and incompatible with the satisfaction of individual desires that are unrelated to their mission of care and prevention of diseases. If I insist so much on the passage in force, it is because I consider that the text did not allow to go to the bottom of some questions, because it mixes two very different dimensions: the MPA, which is a societal issue and bioethical issues. Not only have we not been able to have a substantive legal debate on the MPA, but the Government is seeking to dilute bioethical issues in a scientific debate, since in its view the role of the law should be reduced to making research possible what biotechnology would make possible. Without reaching unanimity, the previous French bioethics laws were shown as an example abroad, as they were drawn up around a real consensus. This time, however, from the outset, the majority has refrained from seeking consensus: this will remain an indelible stain on the text, because it is contrary to what a law of bioethics should fundamentally be. You will even create an additional break: not to doubt and not to try to answer a minimum of questions from the opposition and some members of the majority, is to prevent a law of bioethics from being shared by all. However, a law of bioethics should contribute to "making nation", not to accentuate divisions and create tensions; It should be a source of appeasement, and the safeguards it establishes or maintains should reassure. For the time being, it is exactly the opposite: this bill is worried, because it leads us to a so-called less ethic. Where an authorisation was required, a simple declaration will suffice; Where we were banned, we make it possible without knowing what's going to happen. Bioethics laws should, however, be laws of balance – the right and legitimate balance, which allows researchers to carry out research while allowing society to keep control over what is happening in research laboratories, all the more so when it mobilizes public funding. Thus, it would be wise, at the very least, to apply to research on human embryonic stem cells the rules that frame research on living animals. A law of bioethics must protect, provide safeguards – especially ethical ones, precisely. The bill is asking a lot of questions – and we have asked a lot of them, without obtaining answers from the majority and the government. If the questioning is legitimate, it must not, of course, turn into blur and leave it – as the text gives the impression. On the contrary! Combble with all this: while it claims to eliminate discrimination in societal matters, this law will unfortunately create new ones. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] For all these reasons, we invite the executive to the reason and respect of the French: we must postpone these societal and bioethics debates, which must not take place during a period of state of emergency. And, since we are one year from the presidential election, let us give way to a real democratic debate in 2022. Candidates who wish to do so will then – officially this time – be able to register in their program the MPA for all and their willingness to recognize the GPA, with a view to a real citizen and political debate. Only this clarity and transparency would lead to a broad consensus on highly sensitive issues that go beyond all of us.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-07-O1292.u54	Mrs Michèle de Vaucouleurs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-07-O1292.u55	Today, our chamber is considering, at third reading, the bioethics bill. It should be recalled that the law of 7 July 2011 provides for the review of bioethics laws every seven years by Parliament, so that Parliament can discuss ethical issues related to advances in medicine and biology. It is in this context that work began, as early as January 2018, with the holding of general states of bioethics, under the auspices of the National Ethics Advisory Committee for the Life and Health Sciences. They were followed by an opinion of the Council of State, the report of the Agency for Biomedicine, an assessment of the implementation of the 2011 law by the Parliamentary Office for the Evaluation of Scientific and Technological Choices, and the report of the National Assembly's fact-finding mission on the revision of the Bioethics Act. Almost three years after the start of the examination of the text which has been submitted to us, and after the hearing of a large number of stakeholders, it is high time, ladies and gentlemen, to decide on the new provisions which we believe are useful and expected progress. At second reading, the Senate removed many major provisions on which our assembly had reached a balance: it was, therefore, an important restoration work that the special commission began last week. Contrary to what sorrowful minds want to think, this text does not lead to an anthropological rupture, but the new framework it proposes – concerning the opening of the MPA to women's couples and single women, the self-conservation of gametes, organ donation, the use of information on genetic characteristics, the supervision of research work or the extension of neonatal screening – is part of a fair and proportionate evolution of practices. With regard to the scientific aspects, when the matter is arduous, the necessary and useful explanations which will be given to us again at this new reading should remove the last concerns which have once again been expressed in the special committee last week. With regard to the opening of the MPA to all women, I fear that it will be more difficult to rally the whole Chamber, although the opening of this technique to all women does not pose any bioethical problems – the previous work has demonstrated this. Let us remember that it is a matter of allowing every woman to become a mother, regardless of her sexual orientation, her will to be a couple or the possibility that she had to be. This situation exists, apart from any moral consideration. It is therefore a matter of treating it as a social fact. However, since this does not contravene the social order, it is up to the legislator to give our fellow citizens full recognition of their way of access to maternity. Before concluding, I would like to highlight another point in the text: children's access to their genetic origins. Even if not all are concerned about knowing them, this possibility can facilitate the child's construction by enabling him or her, if necessary, to find the answers that would prove necessary for his or her development and balance. On this point, we believe that the questioning of a child in adolescence can justify that his or her parents may have access to the donor's non-identifiable data, if this proves necessary before the majority of the child. We will propose an amendment to that effect. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group and on some benches of the LaREM group]] From a societal point of view, this text contains important advances from the commitments made by our majority to the French in 2017. They are expected and hoped for by many of our fellow citizens, so it is our duty to make them possible from now on. Our group is committed to doing so with conviction, while respecting the freedom of conscience and voting of each of its members.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-07-O1292.u56	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-07-O1292.u57	The meeting was resumed. Mr Gérard Leseul has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-07-O1292.u58	So here we are at the third reading of the bioethics bill, which includes the opening of the MPA to all women: almost two years of progress towards a text and societal evolution expected by many of our fellow citizens. This is proof that, as part of the legislative process, we can take the time of dialogue, of exchange, when we bother. We should be careful, however, that this long time does not reduce the scope of a long-declared reform, but does not reduce certain measures. The subjects discussed are sensitive: they touch on what we have most intimately, on our deep convictions, especially since these advances occur in the context of a globalization where trust in science, in medicine, is too often undermined. By its universal character, science unites men without calling into question the freedom of thought which even allows the individual to opt for the metaphysics of his choice; It is a neutral and secular space that we absolutely must preserve. That is why we must move forward with conviction while preserving the ethical principles essential to our society. I would also like to take this opportunity to commend the Agency for Biomedicine, the Parliamentary Office for the Evaluation of Scientific and Technological Options, and of course the National Advisory Committee on Ethics for the Life and Health Sciences, not to mention the ethics committees that now exist everywhere, in which the debates allow us to move forward, while formulating with humility, clarity, our questions and our doubts. Thus, our debates will be both the fruit and the continuation of those who preceded them. To supervise the progress of science and medicine in order to avoid its drifts, this is the whole objective of bioethics laws: we can also be proud that France was the first country to set up an organ such as the CCNE in 1983. It then adopted a specific legislative framework for bioethics through three laws enacted in 1994, one on 1 July, the other on 29 July. This legal framework was first strengthened in 2004; Then, because the rapid progress of science and societal evolution required a regular update, the law of 7 July 2011 laid down the principle of its revision seven years later – a work officially opened with the launch of the general states of bioethics on 18 January 2018. This bill obviously takes into account developments in our society. If we are here today, it is because other major societal advances have previously been supported, in particular by left-wing governments. I am thinking of the PACS created in 1999, under the Jospin government, and of the adoption in 2013 of the marriage for all, defended majestically by a very great seal guard, Christiane Taubira, to whom I pay tribute here. These measures offered rights and legal recognition to those who did not. It is these successive conquests that now allow us, ladies and gentlemen, to debate the progress contained in this future bioethics law, particularly the MPA for all, that is to say, its extension to women's couples and to single women. The long controversies, the conservative positions expressed with regard to these developments, which must be accompanied and framed, all too often remind us that the fight for equality must be carried out tirelessly, and that it is, alas, never spontaneously acquired. The debates in the special committee, the thousand amendments tabled, have shown how the former opponents of marriage for all are once again turning their old arguments into loops. Yet, once again, our society is changing; family and parental patterns too. According to INSEE data, our country now has a quarter of single-parent families; The NCCE has also expressed its support for the opening of the GPA to single women, invoking their request and recognition of their autonomy, as well as the absence of technical-related violence and the relationship to the child within the new family structures. Let us listen to the families, let us face the evolution of the family models of our society! Contrary to accepted ideas, the absence of a father is taken very seriously by single-parent families: male presences can play the role of third parties and make identification possible. The important thing remains to offer a peaceful, open, love-driven family setting. The lack of otherness in the couple is not a problem in itself, as long as there is a strong family project that is conducive to the child's development. On the other hand, we need to be particularly vigilant in the face of violent and discriminatory discourses against families that do not fit into the classic "father + mother" scheme, as they once did with children born out of wedlock, because it is these tensions that can have negative consequences for children. Moreover, the "normality" dear to some is unfortunately not always the dream life: domestic violence, femicides, are sad social realities, as the news often reminds us tragically. Let us accept it humbly, but sincerely, honestly and definitively: it is not the marital status that makes someone a good parent.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-07-O1292.u59	All these reasons prompt the elected members of the Socialist and related group to support this reform as a whole, as well as the health insurance coverage of the acts of AMP for women's couples and single women, which would thus benefit from the same modalities as heterosexual couples. This text deals with other sensitive issues which, I believe, must be fully seized by the legislator. Having already spoken to me on this point as rapporteur for Title II of the bill, I will not go back to the donation of blood, which, in my view, continues to be the subject of discrimination – incomprehensible – towards homosexual men. The question of extending the common law of filiation to couples of women or to any unmarried woman who uses an AMP with third-party donor must also be raised. Under the current wording, a woman in marriage with another woman would become a mother only by recognition before a notary, whereas if she were single or in marriage with a man, she would become a mother by giving birth. However, all the provisions necessary to simply extend the common law regime to include women's couples are already included in our law: the donation with third-party donors, the AMP and double filiation without biological link exist, just as, since the law of 17 May 2013 establishing marriage for all and opening the adoption to homosexual couples, the mention "mother and mother". We therefore propose to extend the common legal filiation to the future public concerned by the AGP with third-party donor, which will not in any way affect the rights of couples composed of a man and a woman who already have access to it, while allowing the rules in force in the context of filiation disputes to be retained for all parents, whether single, heterosexual or same-sex. Similarly, the question of the filiation of a child born of pregnancy to others abroad, which has now arisen for many years, should be answered in practice. Finally, I am convinced, personally, that we should take advantage of the opportunity offered by this text to clarify the practices and reaffirm that medical interruption of pregnancy (IMG) for medical reasons or in the event of psychosocial distress must apply uniformly across France. IMG is a medical procedure that occurs when there is a high probability that the unborn child will be affected by a condition of particular severity that is recognized as incurable at the time of diagnosis, or when the continuation of pregnancy endangers the health of the pregnant woman. This definition already includes situations of very severe psychosocial distress. All too often, however, there are differences of interpretation at the local level as to the appropriateness of taking into account all the distresses among the causes of serious peril justifying the realization of an IMG. [[Mrs Valérie Petit applause]] This text could constitute a real societal advance, provided that we give ourselves the means to deal to the end with the issues that remain open, to remove the ever-increasing number of discriminations, and to ensure the effectiveness of new, consecrated or reaffirmed rights.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-07-O1292.u60	Mr Pierre-Yves Bournazel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-07-O1292.u61	We are looking at the bioethics bill at third reading. We are thus approaching the end of a parliamentary process that began almost two years ago, which has generated rich and exciting debates, sometimes lively, in which the sensitivities, doubts and convictions of everyone have been able to express themselves, strengthen themselves or evolve. First of all, I would like to commend the work done by the rapporteurs and by our colleague, Agnès Firmin Le Bodo, who chaired the special committee to examine the bill with a sense of responsibility. Science has long been on the side of human progress, as a force to fight against obscurantism and an instrument of emancipation and better life. The twentieth century has shaken this evidence: while scientific, medical or technological developments have so far been beneficial, history has shown that they can also lead to the worst. We must therefore make a distinction between technical progress and human progress, the former being in no way able to interfere with the latter. This is where ethics intervene, that is, the normative translation of the corpus of human and philosophical values that structures our civilization. As far as the living is concerned, we have invented the notion of bioethics, which, in the face of the innovations of science, sets the limits that we collectively refuse to cross. It allows us to arbitrate between what is desirable for our society and what is not. I am very happy to take up the words of Jean-François Mattei for whom "Ethics means... morals in application, in the face of new situations. Even if we deal with new and complex scientific disciplines such as artificial intelligence, nanotechnologies, biotechnology or neurotechnologies, and because these technological revolutions are capable of changing our very conception of the human being, these situations must not escape democratic debate. That's the meaning of bioethics laws. It is therefore a heavy responsibility of the legislator to find a balance between, on the one hand, the opening up of new rights in favour of the well-being, freedom, equality and emancipation of the French and, on the other hand, the guarantee that these developments are carried out in accordance with our intrinsic values and that it is indeed ethics which defines the orientations of science, and not the other way round. In short, our task is to ensure that human progress remains human. To this end, as recalled by the Council of State in its study on the revision of the bioethics law adopted in 2018, everything we undertake in this area must be based on three pillars. The first is that of dignity, which encompasses principles such as the primacy of the human person, respect for the human being from the beginning of his life or the inviolability of the body. The second pillar is solidarity, illustrated by the altruism of gamete, blood or organ donors. I also take this opportunity to thank our fellow countrymen, who, through their generosity, save thousands of lives every year and allow others to give it – for the principle of solidarity also means hearing the suffering expressed by those who are confronted with the pain of not being able to build a family project. The third pillar is freedom, which aims to preserve the share of privacy, thus the autonomy of the individual in his or her most intimate choices, including that of determining himself or herself by forming a couple or a family, whether he or she is a single parent, a heteroparent or a homoparent. It is also the freedom to choose one's identity in order to build and flourish in society. Dignity, solidarity, freedom: this is the triptych on which our bioethics model has been based for more than twenty-five years. While the debates that accompanied the previous bioethics laws have been passionate each time, society has emerged from them and the new rights that result from them now seem to us to be very natural. In 1994, three bioethics laws established the principle of respect for the human body and supervised data management for medical research, organ and gamete donation, reproductive medical assistance and prenatal diagnosis. In 2004, the legislator chose to prohibit cloning, whether reproductive or therapeutic, to broaden the scope of individuals who could donate organs and to allow embryo research in a highly supervised manner. In 2011, parliamentarians authorized the cross donation of organs in the event of incompatibility between relatives and redefined the modalities and criteria for authorizing the MPA. Ten years later, it is up to us, as legislators, to adapt the existing law to technological developments, constantly ensuring that we satisfy the ethical foundation on which our legislation has been based for a quarter of a century now. The third reading, in essence, is not the time for the opening of new debates. Nor is this the time to rekindle the disagreements that we have already expressed. I am convinced that the restoration by the Special Committee of the balances achieved at second reading by our House will honour national representation, beyond political divisions. This text is indeed the result of a long-term work, begun in 2018 with the launch of the general states of bioethics, which have associated citizens, associations, health professionals and scientists for six months. All of these contributions were the subject of a synthesis report published by the National Ethics Advisory Committee for the Life and Health Sciences. The reflection was then fed into the same year by the report of the Council of State and the OPECST report. Finally, the text is the result of a parliamentary process in which, for two years, senators and deputies were able to express and defend the diversity of their sensitivities in a debate of quality, serene and respectful of each other's positions. This substantive work, carried out on all the benches of the Chamber in a transparant manner, has made it possible to change the original text in depth. The bill therefore reflects the right balance between social progress and the preservation of our ethical principles. I would like to welcome the major social advances that we are preparing, I hope, to vote at the end of this new reading. One is the opening up and care by the health insurance of the medical assistance to procreation for all women – in lesbian or single couples –. As I said earlier, I am thinking of these women, who are waiting for them to be given the essential right to build a family – their families. This provision embodies a campaign commitment by the President of the Republic. It puts an end to the de facto inequality that existed between heterosexual and homosexual couples, but also between women with sufficient means to carry out their parenting project abroad and those who could not – economic suffering added to that of not being able to build a family. The passage of the bill will provide a response to a social reality that we cannot ignore. It will secure mothers who engage in a love project and protect the child from the risk of being deprived of one of his parents in the event of separation. For these children, the bill creates a right of access to origins: by its majority, a child born of an MPA with third-party donor, who has become an adult, will be able to access unidentifiable information and the identity of its gamete donor. New donors will therefore have to accept, before making a donation, that their identity can be lifted one day at the request of the child. Among the other advances allowed by this text are the possibility for everyone to keep their gametes for no medical reason to prevent the risk of infertility, or the relaxation of the conditions for cross donation of organs and transplants. It is the honour of the National Assembly to defend such medical and social progress, which is expected by many of our fellow citizens and which draws on the life experiences and deepest feelings of each of us. I hope that this afternoon's debates will be nourished by fruitful exchanges, respectful of personal convictions and beliefs, without unnecessary outrages or provocations. We owe it to those who listen to us and who expect the respect and dignity of our assembly when we discuss such issues, which affect the intimate. [[Applause on the banks of the Action ens group, as well as on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] More than any other piece of legislation, bioethics laws do not accommodate voting instructions. The elected members of the Action Group will therefore be constructive in the debates and free in their vote, which will appeal to the conscience of everyone. For my part, as you will understand, I am fully committed to voting in favour of this text and I thank all those who have awakened my conscience and allowed me to forge a conviction. I am very pleased to support these advances and new rights for women.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-07-O1292.u62	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-07-O1292.u63	Our chamber has already had the opportunity to debate twice the bioethics bill that we are now considering at third reading. We could therefore think, like some of the previous speakers, that the debate is behind us and that today, a majority, in accordance with the commitment of a President of the Republic, wishes to open up access to medically assisted reproduction to single women and women's couples, presenting this provision as a measure of progress, equity and social equality, in the context of a text on the bioethics law. This also invites us to reflect and ask ourselves whether this generalization of access to medically assisted procreation is a bioethics text or rather a political and societal text. One thing is certain: the consequence of this openness has nothing to do with bioethics; It is simply a change in the law of filiation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-07-O1292.u64	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-07-O1292.u65	It is on this point, ladies and gentlemen of the majority and of the Government, that you encounter a contradiction. You tell us that the opening of the MPA to all women does not affect the evolution of a society in which, as we see in practice today, a single woman, two women or two men raise one or more children, and that our role, as politicians and legislators, is not to judge who – heterosexual or homosexual couple, single man or woman – is best able to raise a child. But these issues have nothing to do with what is defined by law. In this regard, it provides that the child's filiation is determined by the existence of an unfailing bond – even if it can be called into question by court decisions – and that the child is the result of the encounter, if not of a man and a woman, at least of a male gamete and a female gamete. I hear the value judgments sometimes made today on this right of filiation, considered to be outdated or anachronistic. However, it is based on an unsurpassable biological reality. It is precisely this foundation that you must now question, or even undermine, to justify the idea that the MPA allows all women to build a parenting project. To those who dispute the indisputable nature of biological reality, I answer that reality, or in any case biological likelihood, is unsurpassable. Now, in the light of Article 4, you are ignoring it, at the cost of contradictions from which we are unable to come out. Speaking of comaternity, you question the fact that the mother is the person who gives birth – which is impossible, both from a biological and a legal point of view.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-07-O1292.u66	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-07-O1292.u67	[[Mrs Caroline Fiat protested]] You are in fact systematically looking for legal artifices to allow the second woman to be declared as a mother. If, from a moral and societal point of view, this is not discussed from a legal point of view, on the other hand, it does not stand.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-07-O1292.u68	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-07-O1292.u69	I would add that this will not stand any longer tomorrow in view of the way in which family law in our country will evolve. You also tell us, heart on hand, that this new right granted to single women and women's couples will not lead, tomorrow, to the obligation to recognize the legality of GPA in our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-07-O1292.u70	Come on! Mr. Mélenchon explained everything to you!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-07-O1292.u71	Today you create this right in the name of equality, equity, for women, but what will you say tomorrow to couples of men who want to build a parental project through procreation? Because I recall that the construction of a parenting project in itself is already possible. Indeed, it was before the opening of the MPA to women's couples or single women since, since 2013, adoption is now open to single persons and same-sex couples. GPA is indeed the next step, which you will not master, nor will you master, in the field of research – which is well known for the law of bioethics – the potential drifts related to the authorisation of the mixing of human stem cells with animal stem cells. Such drifts will not occur, or at least not immediately, in France, where research is public, supervised, in particular governed by a reporting regime – even if we would have preferred a system based on authorisations – but you will not be able to prevent them. From our point of view – I am speaking in my personal capacity because within the IDU and independent group, as in each parliamentary group, each has its own point of view and vote as it sees fit –...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-07-O1292.u72	It's a "we" of majesty!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-07-O1292.u73	... for the first time since the beginning of bioethics laws, dikes are broken, creating a situation that is no longer controlled and to which the law reacts – after the fact – to validate what is already allowed by science. This is a matter for debate: should science always take precedence over law or should certain elements of law be preserved that allow a society to retain its roots? For just as a tree deprived of its roots dies, a civilization that forgets its roots is mortal. It will always have to be in mind when, article after article, we decide, or not, to open the MPA to all women or to facilitate a little more embryonic research. Considering that a human tissue is only a human tissue, as a male or female gamete is only a male or female gamete, the promoters of this bioethics law certainly show consistency but some of us also see it as the major danger of the text. This is not a debate between progressives and conservatives.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-07-O1292.u74	Yes, that's a bit of it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-07-O1292.u75	Those who would reduce it to this dimension would lie to our fellow citizens, who have understood it well. Indeed, this bill does not go unnoticed in public opinion, despite the fact that the second reading examination in the National Assembly took place at the end of July and that, for the third reading, the debate can hardly last more than a dozen hours before, doubtless, only a few hours are devoted to the final stage of the legislative process, thus to the final validation of the text. Despite these constraints, several scientists, doctors and intellectuals speak on these issues, while some of our fellow citizens are hampered by the provisions of this bioethics bill. Unfortunately, while our society has been very fragmented and remains marked by confrontations and a lack of confidence in collective responsibility, in what is nation, in what is beyond the individual alone, the heart of the bill is precisely the consecration of the individual will, including against what defines the national community. In our view, this is not a debate between conservatives and progressives, but a debate about what our humanity will become and what it will become from the point of view of French citizens. [[Applause on the benches of the IDU-I and LR groups]] Finally, even if we look at the text at third reading, perhaps not all the questions have been exhausted. I would like to point out to the Government that our colleagues in the overseas countries and territories, particularly the Caledonians, have drawn our attention to the fact that, at this stage, we still do not know, with regard to the scope of this bill, what provisions would be the responsibility of the Caledonian community. I imagine we will have an opportunity to discuss it again.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-07-O1292.u76	Mrs Sylvia Pinel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-07-O1292.u77	It has been almost two years since our assembly began work on revising our bioethics law. At the time, we all knew that the road to its adoption would be long; We were far from imagining that she would be so tortuous. When it comes to bioethics, it is important to take time and listen to the different points of view before we legislate, but we recognize that we have fallen behind. We owe it in part to the epidemic of covid -19, which came to upset the examination of the text. Today we cannot agree to waste more time because it would be at the expense of technical, medical, but also social and societal advances that are very expected. The last revision, the very one that provided for a revision clause every seven years, dates back ten years. We are clearly out of time. As a result of this delay, the right we are updating may no longer correspond to the technical and medical developments we are seeking to regulate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-07-O1292.u78	She's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-07-O1292.u79	However, on all these sensitive issues, time is an enemy because any waste of time is often synonymous with loss of luck for many people waiting for innovative techniques or treatments. This is obviously the case for medical assistance in procreation. Its openness to all women, regardless of their socio-economic category, parenting project or sexual orientation, is a fight that I have been fighting for many years. This is a strong expectation for many women, a demand that we can legitimately access. It is also a promise that has been delayed for too long. How many women have hoped and nurtured a parenting project? How many have waited patiently, with the hope of finally realizing it? How many of them had to give up after all these years of waiting? At this moment, I'm thinking of all these women. On this subject, I can only deplore our disagreements with senators. At the first reading, they had considerably reduced the scope of the text by removing the social security coverage of the AGP for women's couples and single women and by reintegrating the strict medical and pathological criteria. At second reading, the Senate's position was deeply strengthened, leading to the outright deletion of Article 1 on the opening of the MPA to all women. Although, of course, I respect those who do not share my position, I sincerely regret that we are still unable to agree on this issue. I consider that our discussions have been sufficiently long, thorough and informed. So I cannot let it be said that we are legislating in an emergency. Like many of us in this House and outside, I now wish for a speedy adoption of the text. It is more than time to reach the promise of equal access to MPA techniques. In order to ensure full compliance, I will propose an amendment to ensure that trans persons who have changed their marital status, without having benefited from a gender change intervention, have access to the MPA. The other important step in the text, which the Senate did not want, concerns the self-conservation of gametes, including oocytes. Its authorization is a good measure from the point of view of preserving female fertility. In spite of the progress I welcome, I will also make a few regrets, given the lack of ambition or the chilliness of certain issues on which I hoped that we could go further. If our special committee has re-established a national plan of prevention against infertility, I stress the need for a genuine prevention policy, which will not exist without real political will or means. We need national information, prevention and awareness-raising campaigns from an early age. Research into the causes of infertility must also be strengthened. So many essential steps for everyone's free will to express themselves, so that the parenting project can be thought of more in terms of will than capacity. But another step is to improve our AMP techniques so that the journeys are as painful, as invasive as possible, and above all so that they will end up more often. Unfortunately, the success rates in our country of attempts at MPA after in vitro fertilization are far from satisfactory, as they reached only 20% in 2015. Behind this figure, there are women who are undergoing heavy treatment and suffering, there are couples who resign and parenting projects that do not succeed. In the end, however, this text will not have proposed anything for the development of techniques that would improve this success rate: I am of course thinking of the pre-implantation diagnosis with a view to the search for aneuploidies, which will not be introduced into this text. I regret this because it would prevent the transfer of embryos with virtually no implantation potential, and thus lead to miscarriages or medical interruptions of pregnancy, causing suffering and dangers for women. This is a missed opportunity when we would be able to set the limits for the use of this technique by defining a legal framework to avoid drifts. Unfortunately, France will not allow the use of this technique, which would have prevented so much suffering and distress for many women. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, it is still time to allow the so-called ROPA technique, through which a woman can make her oocytes available to her spouse to carry the child. This method would also ensure compliance with the principle that each member of the AMP candidate couple has his or her gametes at his or her disposal. I will make one last regret. It concerns the prohibition of the MPA, even if it is very regulated, in the event of the spouse's death. But we can still move forward on this point and I will therefore once again defend an amendment to allow the transfer of the embryo in the event that the member of the deceased couple has given his consent and provided that a time of mourning and reflection is observed. As I said, this text has some progress, but it is a source of regret. And it also has limits since the issue of filiation remains unfinished. I would remind you that from the first reading, I voted in favour of extending the common law to include women's couples. I continue to believe that this solution is most likely to guarantee equality between all couples and an absence of discrimination against couples who use an AMP with third-party donors – including, of course, homosexual couples. However, the anticipated joint recognition proposed in Article 4 is an interesting but fragile balance solution, as it keeps women's couples in a regime derogating from ordinary law. That is why I continue to say that we will not avoid a profound overhaul of our civil code in relation to filiation and more broadly in relation to family law. This is essential because we have to keep our hands, otherwise we will still leave it to the courts to play our role as legislators. I am thinking in particular of the transposition of birth certificates for children born to GPA abroad. The Senate wished to prohibit the complete transcription of these birth certificates and foreign judgments validating this method of procreation. The wording adopted by the special commission was far from satisfactory, since it provided that the reality of the facts declared in the civil status certificate was assessed under French law, whereas those birth certificates had been drawn up in accordance with the relevant foreign legislation. It would be very disturbing to go back to the validity of these civil status acts on the pretext that they would not correspond to the French legal reality, because it would put the children concerned – who, I must remind you, are not responsible for their conception – and their families in legal insecurity, and that would be contrary to the best interests of the children. Keeping your hand is the ultimate goal of revising our bioethics laws. We are doing this for the AGP, but let us remember that this bill goes as far beyond it, and that is an additional reason to see this bill quickly passed. The loss of luck is not only for those who want to see their parenting project complete, it is a reality for all those who are waiting for new treatments and medical techniques with a hope of healing. Beyond the MPA, it is indeed a question of encouraging our researchers to develop innovative and less invasive therapies: I am thinking of the incredible potential of gene therapies that can only be fully exploited if we accompany stem cell research. The bill also addresses other crucial issues on which we need to make further progress, such as addressing the suffering of intersex children, the use of artificial intelligence, the donation of blood and organs, and the donation of haematopoietic stem cells that medical techniques are constantly improving to cure certain cancers and immune deficiencies, as well as genetic testing. I believe that the epidemic that we have been going through for over a year brings us back to our condition of being human, aware of its fragility, and reminds us of the importance of long time when it comes to health research. This crisis underlines the major role of research and science, and the absolute need to support them as vectors of progress. This reinforces my conviction that this bill is essential, despite the limitations and regrets I have raised. [[Applause on the benches of the LT group, as well as on several benches of the LaREM group. – Mr Gérard Leseul, rapporteur, also applauds]] As in previous readings, members of the Freedom and Territory Group will speak freely and conscientiously. If I represent them today in this general discussion, my views cannot reflect the diversity of positions that each of them may have on the various issues at stake in this text. For my part, you understand, I will continue to provide strong support and strong support.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-07-O1292.u80	Mr Bastien Lachaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-07-O1292.u81	How many women have had to give up having a child since the promise of the adoption of the MPA for all women and how many parental projects have been disappointed? How many children were separated from their mothers because the legal link between them could not be recognized in time, which caused untold suffering to both children and parents? Today, the AMP puts lesbian or single women in the same position as women who had to go abroad for abortion before the legalization in France of the abortion: there are those who have the means and the others. All share the unbearable feeling that society denies them the opportunity to give birth to other women, that their sexual orientation or marital status excludes them, that they are denied the right to decide for their bodies, for their families, for their lives, and that society helps other women to have children... but not them. This discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation and marital status could finally end. The sooner the better. Better late than never: this bioethics bill comes back to the National Assembly for final adoption, it is hoped, before the end of this quinquennium. It's more than time! But for some, it is already too late because, as long as politics keep its promises, they have passed the fateful age.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-07-O1292.u82	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-07-O1292.u83	These questions, moreover, have nothing to do with a bioethics law: it would have been fairer and faster to deal with them in an equal law on family matters, because there is much to do in this area. Unfortunately, however, the Government's refusal would not allow this law to put an end to the discrimination itself. For if all women can finally have access to the AGP, the law will continue to freeze discrimination that is not appropriate by perniciously dictating how families should be formed. However, the law must protect all families in their diversity, and it does not have to tell each other how to live. With regard to reproductive health assistance, it is necessary to respect the person's free choice to carry his or her child, and to open these techniques to those who request them. It is absurd to continue to discriminate on the basis of sex in the civil status of the persons concerned. Why should a transgender man, alone or in a couple, who would have chosen to have his marital status in accordance with his gender identity, give up his parenting project? Why else should he be exposed to all the risks of a craft MPA or should he always have to go abroad, whereas the same person who would not have made this change of civil status could eventually access the MPA? In fact, there would be no fundamental change since these families already exist... Since 2016, transgender people can have children and start a family because there is no longer a need to provide proof of sterilization to change their sex in the civil registry. The problem is that the law does not take the consequences and does not provide for such cases, which causes great legal uncertainty for the establishment of filiation. There is a total absurdity: biological parents cannot establish their filiation with their own children, only because they have changed their sex to the marital status. We have tabled amendments to put an end to this absurdity. If they are not adopted now, they will have to go back, so let us not prolong the legal insecurity of these families in the name of a narrow conception of gender identity. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] On filiation, we must stop all those salmigondis who seek to spare two contradictory options: equality, which we advocate, and discrimination, which others defend. In between, we choose equality! Women must not have different rights depending on whether they are in a relationship with a man or a woman, filiation for women's couples must be able to establish themselves under the same conditions as for couples composed of a man and a woman. The Minister of Solidarity and Health has had a great game to write on twitter: "The fight against homophobia and transphobia is a daily fight. It is up to us, politicians or citizens, to pursue it. Improving transition paths, eliminating discrimination in access to the MPA, prohibiting conversion therapies: let's move forward! » It is true that it was 17 May, International Day to Combat Homophobia and Transphobia. But the same minister says the opposite when it comes to the concrete fight against homophobia and transphobia enshrined in the law. It is still time to change your mind and bring it into line with the tweet. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Finally, I would like to address the issue of unconsented intersex transactions. As Rule 21 bis has been voted in conformity by the Senate, we cannot amend it by way of amendment, it is important to remind the associations concerned, which follow this parliamentary debate. However, I believe that the legislative work on this subject has not been completed and that we will have to go back to it. For ethical principles are not clear: our right prohibits mutilation, but the law of bioethics organizes a course of care for children who are not sick and who have healthy variations; Of course, therapeutic forbearance is mentioned as a possibility, but it should be the rule outside vital emergencies. The ethical principle is clear: freedom to dispose of one's body and respect for the integrity of the body. However, despite our many amendments, this principle is not included in the bioethics law. Thus, the collection of the free and informed consent of the person concerned, personally expressed, prior to any operation without vital emergency, is not required. In short, this bioethics law is designed to buy a good conscience at the Macron quinquennium, supposed to have led to a great societal law by giving guarantees of progressism to voters who believed in this mirage. The debate comes to an end shortly before the presidential election. What a waste of time! How many women have seen their bodies instrumentalized for the purpose of electorism? How many more families will have to wait before the law proclaims substantive equality in law?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-07-O1292.u84	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-07-O1292.u85	We are almost at the end of the tunnel into which the bioethics bill has entered over the past two years. Many things have changed since the first reading: the health crisis that we are facing today requires a closer look at the place that we must give to science in our legislation, of course, as regards its contributions and the work carried out by all those who do it. The GDR Group has tried, I say, to find the right compromise between the progress made by science and the ethical forms that this progress must bring to our lives. That is why, during both the first and second readings, we defended the opening of the MPA to all women, considering this extension to be both a fair and indispensable step forward. Our opinion on this matter has obviously not changed and we are pleased that the MPA will finally become accessible to all women, probably in September, when the implementing decrees come into force. We know that our society is determined to accompany this change and that it welcomes the consecration of the happiness to come for these women eager to carry out their parenting project. The upheavals will not be anthropological, but very real in the lives of those who will be able to welcome a child into the greatest happiness. Society expects us to guarantee by this text the equality of all in the use of medically assisted procreation. So this is a new step that we must collectively be proud to take. Women couldn't wait any longer. Our only compass must be the best interests of the child. Regrettably, children born of lesbian couples or single women are well among those who mobilize to ban women's rights; we see it all around us and many studies show it. The hardest part for these children is the words of hatred; those of intolerants who, for example, chant that a child born by AMP is comparable to a GMO vegetable. Nearly two thirds of respondents are in favour of an equal MPA for all. The French and French are decidedly more ready for this advance than many limited organisations. In essence, I believe that this point is now relatively undisputed in the ranks of our Parliament, even though the right-wing senatorial majority eventually denied what it had agreed to accept at first reading. Why such a turnaround? No doubt it acted out of the will to distinguish itself from the presidential majority – it must be said that it is not always easy. It should also be noted that the opening of the MPA to all women is not the legalization of the GPA. First, because the AMP already exists for heterosexual couples who sometimes use a third-party donor to carry out their parenting project. One in thirty children is born through MPA, i.e. either by artificial insemination or in vitro fertilization. In this second case, the medical technique does not treat infertility; Medicine does not restore a failing function: it allows, through a social arrangement, women and men to become parents. Why would it be different for a woman alone or for a couple of women? Secondly, because GPA is prohibited by our legislation. Our group, which will vote for the opening of the MPA to all women, has always opposed the GPA, which responds to our sense of a logic of commodification of bodies. However, as a personal matter, I find it essential to secure the filiation of children from a GPA practiced abroad. This legal recognition is indeed in the best interests of the child. In addition, we refused the majority's proposal to open up the possibility of keeping gametes to private centres, if there was a lack of a public centre in a department. For us, this is a red line that we must not cross if we are to remain faithful to the humanist philosophy that has been the singularity of our country for many years. Yes, we believe that bioethics must be excluded from the mortifying logics of capitalism. The same applies to our health data. Again, the health crisis has allowed us to ask ourselves at new expense what is acceptable or not with regard to public health and privacy requirements. Unfortunately, as the latest journalistic revelations show, I believe that we are embarking on a path that is not compatible with respect for our fundamental freedoms. That is why we must urgently protect our data, especially those related to our health, from the voracious appetites of private groups wishing to go ever further in the commodification of bodies. There is no doubt that this issue will be one of the main issues in the future revision of bioethics laws, along with the debates surrounding chemeric embryos and all the techniques related to the creation of genetically modified seeds. On this and other points, the legislator will have to be vigilant in order to ensure that science does not exceed the limits set by humanist philosophy. [[Ms. Carole Fiat applauds]] I shall conclude my remarks by expressing a personal regret which must certainly be shared by a large number of colleagues. I regret that during the three years of discussions we were unable to address the important issue of the end of life. We have seen very recently that it is of interest to many citizens and parliamentarians, mostly in favour of legislative change in this area. I believe that this non-discussion is due to the will of the Government and I regret it, because the issue had its full place in the bioethics bill...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-07-O1292.u86	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-07-O1292.u87	[[Mrs Agnes Thill protested]] [[Carole Fiat and Danièle Obono applaud]] ...it questions intimate convictions that are glaringly beyond traditional political cleavages. I, too, support this development and hope that the next revision of bioethics laws will give everyone the right to medical assistance to die. There is no greater freedom than to decide the future of one's being, respecting the moral autonomy and ethical conceptions of one's own. For the time being, by sticking to the text as proposed, the GDR Group will obviously vote in favour of a decisive step forward which has been too late.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-07-O1292.u88	Mr Marc Delatte has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-07-O1292.u89	After a long journey, we come to the end of the revision of the bioethics law, at a time when advances in knowledge are questioning us in a shorter and shorter period of time – how far since the birth in 1982 of Amandine, the first test baby! This calls for and even urges us to provide legal clarification, to impose prohibitions and to provide for new rights. Therefore, I thank those who have enlightened us and nurtured our thinking to build a law of balance that takes account of societal realities, in line with ethical principles protecting us from any drift towards eugenics and transhumanism. Through the opening of the AMP to single women and women's couples, this law reflects a more open, fraternal and supportive society. Thank you to you, Madam and Mr Ministers and colleagues – let me also thank Ministers Agnès Buzyn and Nicole Belloubet –...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-07-O1292.u90	Oh, yes! I miss Agnes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-07-O1292.u91	...for the quality of the debates and arguments and for the mutual respect that you have all shown despite our differences of appreciation and the inevitable tensions between the intimate and the collective of which we are not exempt. Two years, you'll tell me, it's a long time. But in the face of the challenges of the future, everyone has moved forward, progressed, doubted too, with this question in mind, the thread of the CCNE: in which society do we want to live? Some would like to go further, others have expressed their ethical concern. Everyone is convinced of the correctness of their convictions. I can assure you of my pride in belonging to this noble assembly, which has been able to answer many questions, at a time when we must gather more than ever in solidarity with our fellow citizens in the face of the pandemic. The acceleration of knowledge inevitably leads to questions. It is wise to ask these questions, and that is how we are moving forward. Are we entitled to deny access to the AGP to a parenting project, to a love project from single women and women's couples? Would that not be contrary to the principles of justice and fairness? Let us also mention the loss of opportunity for many people who have unfortunately died because they were unable to access a transplant during the pandemic. The possibility of cross-gifts will, in the future, offer new hopes. The loss of luck would also have been not to trust the research community. The scientific prowess they have accomplished to develop an RNA vaccine – ribonucleic acid – messenger, life-saving for humanity, is a perfect example of this. Thanks to them, hope is reborn. This is why, now more than ever in the societal debate, the change in knowledge leads to legal developments. This is true in the context of the opening of the MPA, in particular at the level of filiation, while respecting the rights of the child. This is also the case in the field of research, concerning both embryonic stem cells and IPS cells as well as supernumerary pre-implantation embryos intended to be destroyed following the abandonment of the parental project, with prerequisites: the relevance of the medical team; the purpose of the project; and the absence of an alternative, in accordance with Article 16-4 of the Civil Code and the Oviedo Convention. Finally, in the face of scepticism, the many fantasies and false allegations that we have had to fight about e.g. messenger RNA vaccines, I repeat this forcefully: researchers are responsible people. There is no question of creating de novo embryos for research purposes, of modifying the genetic heritage of progeny or of authorizing GPA. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] That is why the LaREM Group will vote for this law, in a version in full conformity with that adopted by the National Assembly at second reading. It is a law adapted to our time, imprinted with humanity. As the Agency for Biomedicine recalled, France can pride itself on being endowed with one of the most successful legislative and regulatory systems in the field of bioethics, based on dignity, freedom and solidarity, in harmony with our republican values of freedom, equality and fraternity.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-07-O1292.u92	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-07-O1292.u93	A story of equality. This is the story of Ali, François and Salome. Two men in civil status, one cisgender and the other transgender, conceive a child, "the little person", which will be carried by Ali. He was assigned a woman at birth. He managed to escape forced sterilization and gave birth to little Salome. Last February, he confided to the microphone of France Culture: "It was important for me – even though it would not work – that my loved ones continue to respect my gender identity; they don't finally tell me that nature has taken over its rights. And it's still something I'm worried about today in discussions about parenthood and pregnancy. [...] In the public space, people turned to me, especially women. Women thought it wasn't pancreatitis, I didn't drink a lot of beer, it wasn't that. This is one of the craziest experiences of my life. I loved my big ass, my big thighs, my big legs. Everything was nice, actually. » Céline, a midwife who accompanies the couple throughout this journey, explains: "It is the personality of the present person that is important. It's Ali, and there's no question of whether it's a man or a woman. She's a pregnant person. » The story is beautiful – in any case, I think it is beautiful – and it is especially rare. As Ali explained on 21 February at the "LDC for All" gathering held in front of the National Assembly, this story takes a particular echo in the context of the bioethics bill that we are discussing today as a new reading, at a time when the MPA is denied to transgender people and where, since 2016, the legal issues related to the establishment of the children's filiation of trans people are the dead end of the legislation. On February 21, Ali explained: "Our chance was to meet, before the birth of our child, magistrates whose only objective was to secure at the same time the double filiation of our daughter and the paternity of each of us. They did it. But our situation remains uncertain, as our child's birth certificate could be considered irregular. In the silence of the law, it is the legal insecurity of our families that is maintained. How many situations will be presented as blond and potentially dramatic? » Thus, with the text as it is today, some transgender people will have access to the MPA and others will not, depending on their degree of transition, their status to the civil status, depending on whether they are in a couple or not, and also, alas, depending on the level of prejudice of some caregivers. Why, if not to protect standards rather than people? Why, for transgender people, equality and universality of rights remain, at this stage of the law, unfinished? A history of humanity. This is the story of Mr., the first intersex person to file a complaint in 2015 for violence that resulted in mutilation or permanent disability, sexual violence and permanent deterioration of the genitals. M., like about 2 per cent of the world's population, came into the world with the attributes of both sexes. Her genitals were perfectly healthy, but the doctors convinced her parents to operate her. By this act and many other subsequent operations – five heavy surgical procedures between 1980 and 1993 – they inflicted on Mr. an endless series of health problems, life-long treatments and the impossibility of having children. From the first days of his life, he was injected with a lot of hormones. It's still stings and injections that make him take pounds, give him buttons. Reproductive organs are used to make them look like a girl's sex. When she's one year old, an operation removes part of her sexual organs. At 3 years, all internal genitals are removed and M. undergoes clitoridoplasty, to reduce the size of what can be considered a developed clitoris acorn or micropenis, without any urgency or medical necessity. This operation and the following clitoridoplasties will remove from this sexual organ almost any sensitivity and ability to feel pleasure. At 4, it's a vaginoplasty to form a vagina. These surgeries will leave him with multiple scars and difficulties for sexual intercourse. In adolescence, he will be given Androcur, a treatment that increases the risk of tumors in the brain. It is the story of Mr. and hundreds of other children who bear witness to the same abuses, the same suffering, the same human rights violations, which in 2016 led France to be condemned on several occasions by various UN bodies: the Committee on the Rights of the Child, the Committee on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women and the Committee against Torture. International human rights associations such as Human Rights Watch and Amnesty International have openly positioned themselves to stop these practices. In France, the inter-ministerial delegation to the fight against racism, anti-Semitism and anti-LGBT hatred calls for the cessation of these mutilations. In May 2018, the National Consultative Commission on Human Rights (CNCDH) and, in July of the same year, the Council of State issued similar opinions. It took months and repeated calls from the associations of the persons concerned for the subject to finally come to debate at first reading. Finally, it is a measure of accommodation rather than a prohibition that was introduced in the text at second reading. It is now impossible to return to it as a new reading, even though it is the most directly bioethical subject of the text, much more so than the opening of the MPA to women alone or as a couple, which is a matter of equality – equality, too, unfinished. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups. – Mrs Delphine Bagarry and Mr Aurélien Taché also applaud]] For all those concerned, who have sometimes experienced the debates as a challenge to their lives, their families and their bodies, and even their humanity, for all those who have manifested, petitioned, protested, explained and told their lives even in the most intimate details, with modesty and determination, in the hope of seeing equality and the universality of rights, and finally cease these discriminations, the battle continues and we will continue to lead it with them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-07-O1292.u94	Mrs Catherine Pujol has the floor. I would remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that even in the context of the scheduled legislative time, a non-attached Member cannot speak for more than five minutes.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-07-O1292.u95	Bioethics is a fundamental subject that, rather than being the business of scientists and jurists alone, should be debated by society as a whole through a referendum. It is not a question of adapting the right to the evolution of technical knowledge, but of setting red lines for the search for the purpose of scientific progress not to supplant the best interests of human dignity. French bioethics must not be wiped out in front of the Anglo-Saxon progressive ultraliberal model that puts the contract above human dignity, because what is technically possible is not always ethically desirable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-07-O1292.u96	Well, we won't revive you again!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-07-O1292.u97	First of all, this text contains a major reform of filiation. Since the 1970s, the law of filiation has been guided by the search for biological truth. Every effort has been made to ensure that the child has access to the biological reality of his/her filiation: the disappearance of the irrefragable presumption of paternity of the child born in marriage, the widening of the procedures for challenging paternity and the search for paternity, etc. The reform of the LDCs proposed to us breaks with this development. The child will be offered a sonage not only unlikely, but biologically impossible. The desire of any woman or man for a child, regardless of sexual orientation, is perfectly understandable and respectable, but the AMP provides a bad answer. This text takes into account only the desire of the adult child, never the interests of the child. The desire of the child cannot be reduced to the issue of equality and the fight against discrimination: in the name of equality, it will be impossible to prohibit the GPA, as long as the GPA for women's couples is acquired. One of the fundamental characteristics of our bioethics model is the defence of the weakest and most fragile. The freedom of adults must be limited where the right of the child begins. Moreover, the text contains the springs of a drift towards the commodification of the human body. The shortage of gametes will inevitably lead to their marketing, through the imbalance between what might be called the supply and demand of gametes. There are many reasons to oppose this text. These are not fantasies, but risks that will become real if we do not set any limits, no red lines to scientific progress. For example, the creation of man-animal chimeras is an ethical aberration.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-07-O1292.u98	Oh, there!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-07-O1292.u99	Allowing the modification of an animal embryo by the addition of cells of other species, including the human species, is highly dangerous. There are many examples of worrying developments in this text, but I do not have enough time to list them all. In just 20 years, the human embryo and embryonic stem cell (HESC) research regime has moved from an absolute ban to a supervised authorisation, while basic research on IPS cells already has equivalent results while respecting all bioethical principles. The lowering of our ethical requirements for embryonic research is one of the worrying developments introduced by this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-07-O1292.u100	Let's not save lives!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-07-O1292.u101	In the name of a progressism of aligning the rules of bioethics with scientific progress, for fear of missing the train of modernity, the legislator plays to the sorcerer apprentices, without measuring the consequences of this text on bioethics, filiation and the fundamental rights of the most fragile.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-07-O1292.u102	You had to read the text!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-07-O1292.u103	I strongly oppose this bill, which, under the guise of so-called scientific progress, lowers our ethical requirements for a European legislative osmosis.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-07-O1292.u104	The next speaker is Mr Aurélien Taché, who, as a non-attached person, will not be able to exceed five minutes.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-07-O1292.u105	What a shame!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-07-O1292.u106	From the Neuwirth and Veil laws, which were applied in 1972 and 1975, to the 1974 and 1982 laws abolishing age-related discrimination of the sexual majority, to the PACS, which was passed in 1999, or marriage for all, in 2013, the major laws of sexual equality, equality between women and men, regardless of gender identity, marital status or sexual orientation, were civil fighting and parliamentary battles, advances torn away by the force of conviction, determination and unwavering faith in the fact that the movement of history was to be that of a path of social justice. These votes have, each time, given rise to fierce, often heated debates. In November 1974, the Minister of Health, Simone Veil, who had survived the camps, had to listen to Jean-Marie Daillet talking about embryos thrown into the crematory oven, Jacques Médecin evoking a barbarity organized and covered by the law, as it was by the Nazis, and Hector Rolland accusing him of making the choice of genocide. In 2013, during the debates on marriage for all, murderous phrases, questionable comparisons and other slippages came to the Assembly. We remember the words of MP Philippe Cochet – "you are murdering children" – which caused unease in the ranks of the opposition. The law is progressing, rights are opening up, both bad and bad. But here I would like to have a thought for all families, for all the women and children who see their intimate lives debated, sometimes thrown into the public square in such terms, when they simply demand the same rights as everyone. The bioethics law that we are still reviewing today, and whose main provision, the opening of the MPA to all women, alone or as a couple, is also the most controversial, unfortunately does not escape these means. This law is a school case for any student in law or political science. It illustrates in detail all the meanderings and subtleties of the parliamentary procedure. We are already at the third reading of this text and yet still at the starting point – should I talk about a blocking point? – the same since July 2019, i.e. for almost two years. Two years for nothing: the text we are looking at today only restores its original version after two Senate censorships. Meanwhile, thousands of families and children remain in the grey area of the legal vacuum because, as always, society has not waited for the approval of parliamentarians to move forward and change. We owe them a clear and protective legal framework. These families have been clinging to this hope since 2017, when candidate Emmanuel Macron was elected President of the Republic, who promised the opening of the MPA to single women and women's couples. It is to be believed that the promises of the executive have eroded the pitfalls of the health crisis and the deadline of 2022, with what includes an electoral strategy. Government priorities have evolved well in response to security and conservative setbacks. Is it still possible to see this law implemented by the end of the mandate? I'd like to believe it, but let me doubt it. Our parliamentary calendar is saturated with many so-called Regalian texts, all these laws on terrorism, justice, global security or separatism, the latter being discussed again at this very moment in a special committee. It does not seem to me, however, that establishing widespread surveillance of public space, pretending to reform secularism or associative freedom, were promises of campaigning. Again, the rights of women and LGBT people will wait, despite optimistic ministerial statements. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] These findings, these doubts shared with you, I will not let myself be won by pessimism. I still want to believe in this law, which must enshrine in our law the equality of all forms of family. I want to believe that it is still possible to improve, taking into account transgender people and bereaved families, who are still excluded from it. In this connection, I should like to welcome the work done by my colleague Guillaume Chiche over the past two years, who, unfortunately, will not be able to speak on this text because of his status as a non-attached Member and because of the scheduled legislative time procedure. The strength of politics lies in its ability to change people's lives for the better. Today we have the opportunity to do so. Let's not step back in front of a society that is progressing!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-07-O1292.u107	Mrs Delphine Bagarry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-07-O1292.u108	After two reviews by both chambers, we have reached the next reading of the bioethics bill; His study takes time and it was expected, as the topics discussed are complex and sometimes affect the intimate convictions of each other. As complex and intimate as they are, however, it remains necessary for the legislator to provide a renewed legal framework adapted to contemporary bioethics issues. Technical and medical progress is generating new expectations among our fellow citizens and, in the world of research, new potential. It is therefore in search of a balance that we have devoted ourselves for more than two years: that between openness to the techniques allowed by scientific evolution and respect for the human being in their application. The Bioethics Bill is an expected and necessary piece of legislation in broad areas. However, most of the discussions focused on a limited number of the social advances it contains: the extension of the MPA has taken on a central role in our discussions; in the public debate, it takes all the place. The opening of the technique to all families, without distinction on the basis of sexual orientation and without judgment on the formation of the family unit, puts the interests of the child at the centre: by placing it in a family and parental project, the bill promotes the best conditions for its development. These advances have been made possible by the work of many of you; I am thinking in particular of the commitment of Guillaume Chiche, who unfortunately will not be able to speak in the Chamber because of scheduled legislative time. The interests of the child are reinforced by strengthening and securing the rights of children born to MPA. Partial removal of anonymity will give the child, from the age of majority, access to the identity of the third-party donor; early recognition of filiation will allow women's couples to legally become the parents of the child from birth. I regret that we have not found a consensus to improve the recognition of both parents for children born to GPA. We will stick to the dictates of case law and the need for compliance with European law. Like early recognition for the GPA, it would have been, in my view, a step forward in the child's interest. However, while these provisions are important, the bill cannot be summed up. The development of genetic techniques, artificial intelligence, embryo culture and preservation open up new ethical challenges in the world of research and medicine. Bioethics laws are there to anticipate, accompany and guide progress based on progress with respect for human dignity. The bill must ensure that tomorrow legislators do not act under pressure from unexpected expectations or uses because they would have remained at the dock in terms of social progress, medical progress, technological innovation. I regret, therefore, that the deadline for revising bioethics laws has not been modified and has remained at seven years, a time which seems long in view of the acceleration of innovations and possible fields. This text must be that of advances that will improve the lives of many French and French people from the moment it is adopted, while at the same time bringing within it the scientific progress that will allow us to change destiny. But it must also be the responsibility of a responsible State, because innovation is not always confused with the desirable and must guarantee respect for human dignity, freedom and emancipation for all in all circumstances. It balances science and our consciences, and sometimes gives us vertigo in the face of the almost infinite potentials of research and its consequences, and the legislator is expected to act wisely, respecting our ethical principles. The bill must be a response that we must make to the social expectations that our fellow citizens express today and can express tomorrow, and it must be in line with the human and solidarity-based, free and responsible society that we are defending. This is the balance sought by this bill, the result of very long hours of discussion and work, and of the debates provided, which is for this reason supported by the members of the collective Ecology Democracy Solidarity.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-07-O1292.u109	The general discussion is closed. Continuation of the debate was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-07-O1292.u110	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one hours: Further reading of the bioethics bill. The meeting is adjourned.
