ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1097.u1	The next item is the debate on the report of the Joint Joint Committee on the proposal for a law to define pre-reform provisions for the compensation of natural disasters (No 4791).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1097.u2	Mrs Marguerite Deprez-Audebert, rapporteur of the Joint Committee, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1097.u3	The proposal for a law on compensation for natural disasters is a much awaited text. I would like to point out that, while my constituency is particularly concerned with major natural hazards, it is far from being the only one. The municipalities of Pas-de-Calais but also of the North – our colleague Vincent Ledoux had spoken for it – and many other departments that have experienced a great deal of urbanization are in fact regularly affected, both by floods and by drought. Disasters are multiplying, like the great floods that we suffered last summer. I am therefore honoured to present this subject to the national representation and to continue the work initiated by my former colleague Stéphane Baudu, who initiated this text, and by Nicole Bonnefoy, the author of the bill tabled in the Senate on this same issue. The text, which was the result of a fruitful consultation in the Joint Joint Committee (JC) – like the three previous ones examined today – contains very important advances in favour of better compensation for those affected by natural disasters. We can welcome the agreement reached between our two chambers, which makes it possible to conclude a bill whose first reading in the National Assembly dates back to the beginning of 2021. This text first improves the transparency of the procedure for the recognition of the state of natural disasters, the opacity of which was often denounced by the victims. The inter-ministerial commission to decide on natural disasters will now have to produce an annual report. The criteria on which its decisions are based will be the subject of an opinion of a national advisory commission whose work will be made public; Parliament will be regularly informed of this. The bill also improves the compensation procedure for victims, who will no longer be subject to deductibles if their commune does not have a soil prevention plan in place – a provision that was particularly unfair. In addition, insurers will now be required to comply with specific statutory deadlines for conducting assessments, making reparations and paying compensation. In the event of losses caused by the drought-rehydration of the soil, the insurer will be obliged to inform the insured of the findings of the experts after each visit. Finally, the scope of the natural disaster guarantee is now extended to cover emergency relocation costs for disaster victims and to cover the costs of architecting and managing works. The text also organises the support of municipalities and disaster victims. In each department, a permanent focal point for the management and compensation of natural disasters will be responsible for informing the municipalities and disaster victims of the applicable procedures, the available aids and the existing preventive measures. This reference will also contribute to the best information of the relevant departmental commissions. Finally, this bill is the first step in a reform of the compensation scheme applicable to claims caused by drought and soil rehydration risk. The limitation periods for actions for compensation are extended, as are the time limits within which the municipalities may request recognition of the state of natural disaster. Above all, the Government is requested to submit to Parliament, within six months, a report on possible reforms to address the risk of drought and soil rehydration. I am convinced that there is a need to reflect on a compensation scheme specific to this risk, apart from the natural disaster guarantee, in order to offer disaster victims a real compensation solution, without jeopardizing our public finances or existing compensation schemes. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] I therefore invite you to adopt this very important text in a context of accelerating global warming. Faced with the proliferation of natural disasters, our solidarity regimes must be consolidated without further delay.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1097.u4	The next speaker is the Minister for Tourism, French Foreign and French-speaking Affairs, who is responsible for small and medium-sized enterprises.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1097.u5	First of all, I would like to send a message of solidarity to all the inhabitants of the departments of the Landes and the Pyrénées-Atlantiques, who – the Member of Parliament, Vincent Bru, is well aware of this – have been subjected to major floods and floods since the end of last week. Unfortunately, we have seen municipalities such as Peyrehorade, Bayonne, Saint-Pée-sur-Nivelle, Laruns and Larrau carrying the stigma of these trials. I have a special thought for the artisans and traders who find themselves in need, for whom the reform of the natural disaster regime is so important. I also want to pay a deep and sincere tribute to the rapid and effective action of firefighters, security forces and state and local authorities, as has already been done on the spot by the Minister of the Interior, Gérald Darmanin. These events prove once again – if necessary – that there is an urgent need to reform the care of victims and to review certain procedural and compensation deadlines. I welcome this moment, perhaps too rare, of unanimity around this bill. Indeed, the discussion of this text, throughout its journey, showed how much we were all attached, on every bench, in a trans-partisan way, to principles and objectives around the same reform. This work has been carried out in a spirit of harmony and with a sense of general interest which deserve to be emphasized. Let us bear in mind that this issue concerns many of our fellow citizens who can, at once, lose everything. The examination of this text takes place in a particular context in more than one way, firstly because of its origins. This parliamentary initiative was the result of important work carried out by both chambers. I am thinking in particular of the information report drawn up by Nicole Bonnefoy and of course of the action taken by the Member of Parliament Stéphane Baudu when he sat on these benches. This work has led to a text that provides for greater transparency, better care for victims and better support for elected officials. We know how much the danger of drought – which you mentioned, Madam rapporteur – is present in many territories of the Republic. You have quoted Nord and Pas-de-Calais, but it is in fact several million houses that are exposed in France. I still remember the terrible drought of 2003 which led to numerous compensation procedures in 2004. However, it was found that, if the criteria originally laid down by the Interdepartmental Commission for the Recognition of the State of Natural Disasters were satisfied, a relatively small number of cases were eligible. Fortunately, over time, the committee has expanded the list of these criteria and we have been able to provide more and more satisfactory answers. However, questions existed about the process followed. Lists of cases that could provide compensation were partial to those whose files were not retained. It should be noted, however, that this regime has done a great deal to help those affected – we must salute it. On average, 80000 homes are compensated each year, for an average amount of 20000 euros. Since 2017, more than 340,000 homes have benefited from the scheme, or 750000 French, at a cost of 5.5 billion euros. The proposed law contains several advances aimed at better considering the particular characteristics of the risk associated with drought. It thus provides for an extension of the time limits within which the mayor may submit an application. Insurers are also required to systematically submit the final expert report. The right to counter-expertise is also recalled. Further progress may one day complement these measures in order to go even further and respond even better to the plight of the French affected. Let's not forget that a house that cracks is a life of work and memories that is shaking. If I have spoken of a particular context, it is also in the light of the tragic and exceptional climate events that have affected France in recent years. We all have in mind the images of Hurricane Irma, which, at the end of summer 2017, devastated Saint-Martin, but we also remember the Teil earthquake, the floods in Aude and Var and, more recently, the storm Alex. On the occasion of these events, the regime has been able to demonstrate its solidity since its creation forty years ago in 1982. Every year, no less than 10% of the French communes, or about 3500, are recognised in a state of natural disaster, a significant figure. This regime is based on founding principles that we want to preserve, starting with a principle of solidarity. As you know, the premium rate for each insured person is the same regardless of risk exposure; It is a condition of solidarity throughout the national territory. However, there was a need for change. The President of the Republic called for a system of fairer, faster and more comprehensive compensation for the victims. Since I was raising the question of principles at the moment, as an example of solidarity, I would point out that this bill also responds to the legitimate demand for greater transparency. The National Consultative Commission on Natural Disasters will, thanks to the elected representatives and the associations of disaster victims who will participate in it, establish a real public and democratic debate on the functioning of the regime. This bill is also intended to facilitate access to the regime by extending the deadline for filing applications, but above all by creating a focal point in each department to accompany mayors who sometimes feel isolated, destitute and unable to resolve such natural disasters. In addition, compensation will be faster and more generous. The deadlines for the publication of the decree of recognition will be reduced and, tomorrow – as you have pointed out, Madam rapporteur – the costs of rehousing will be borne by national solidarity. The Government also supported the rapporteur's idea of capping franchises for small businesses whose sometimes too high amounts prevented them from returning to business as a result of a disaster. Prevention policy must also be strengthened. From this point of view, the expertise of the Central Reinsurance Fund will be useful in better designing and evaluating the prevention policy. Similarly, there is a need for greater accountability for large companies that need to work in a preventive manner to ensure their resilience to natural disasters. Having incorporated a large number of parameters and constraints, the bill provides for a balanced overhaul of the regime. It may not be the great evening that some were waiting for, but this text contains very concrete progress that will have an effect on the daily lives of those affected. The Republic must stand by their side in the terrible ordeal of a natural disaster. She is and will be. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] Thank you for the quality of the work carried out since the beginning of the parliamentary process.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1097.u6	In the general debate, Mr Vincent Bru has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1097.u7	First of all, I would like to thank our former colleague Stéphane Baudu, who has already been quoted by the minister. It had carried out long-term work on the compensation of natural disasters, as it was deeply convinced of the urgency of reforming a regime whose weaknesses had been highlighted in recent years. His action led him to work with his colleagues in the Assembly and the Senate, including Senator Nicole Bonnefoy and MP Vincent Ledoux, both particularly involved in these matters. This collective work, carried out in full complementarity between the National Assembly and the Senate, led last week to an agreement in a joint joint committee. Thanks to this consultation between our two chambers, the law will be able to enter into force quickly. We thus respond to the aspirations of our fellow citizens who expect us to take concrete and rapid action in this field, as evidenced by the numerous and repeated warnings of disaster victims and mayors in all of our constituencies. On all the benches of the Chamber, we are aware of the worsening of natural disasters, because they affect the entire territory, from the diluvian rains fallen last Friday in the Pyrénées-Atlantiques and in the south of the Landes, to the movement of land in Corsica, passing through the risks of collapse of houses in the Hauts-de-France, until the withdrawal-swelling of clays in Loir-et-Cher. While the national territory was already experiencing a high degree of disintegration, climate change has aggravated the scale and redundancy of certain natural phenomena, particularly floods and droughts. It was therefore necessary to change the system of compensation for natural disasters, in order to face global warming, without weakening the protection of our citizens. Our objective was clear: to improve procedures, to make them more transparent, more adapted to phenomena, more understandable, more protective, and to prepare for the future by initiating a reflection on our prevention policies. The Group of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats wanted to think about this reform in terms of transparency so that every Frenchman could understand the procedures and decisions. The sense of abandonment that the victims share with us on a daily basis is, first and foremost, due to the opacity of the functioning of the system of compensation for natural disasters. Thanks to our bill, the decision to recognize the state of disaster will now be accompanied by a motivation and will detail the remedies in case of a dispute. The communication of the expert reports that formed the basis of the decision and the establishment of the National Advisory Commission on Natural Disasters, the reports of which will be made public, will ensure objective and clear information for the victims. We also wanted to secure the compensation and care of the victims by prohibiting the modulation of the deductibles remaining at the expense of the insured because of the absence of a plan for the prevention of natural risks (PPRN); by reducing to 21 days the time limit for the victims to receive their compensation, or by taking into account in the so-called natural disaster guarantee the costs of rehousing the disaster victims whose principal residence is rendered unfit for housing following a natural disaster.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1097.u8	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1097.u9	I welcome the adoption of a provision in Nicole Bonnefoy's bill allowing for the extension of the limitation period from two to five years during which the insured may require the insurer to pay the compensation payable to him in the event of damage resulting from land movements resulting from drought and soil rehydration. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem, LR, Agir ens and IDU-I groups and on several benches of the LaREM group]] Very sensitive to the distress of the victims, guided by our desire to respond to the urgency of the situations which unfortunately are increasingly faced with many of our fellow citizens who have sometimes lost everything, we have led to a balanced bill, adopted unanimously in the Joint Joint Committee. We hope that it will be adopted this evening under the same conditions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1097.u10	Mrs Chantal Jourdan has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1097.u11	Faced with the resurgence of exceptional climatic events in recent years – torrential rains, episodes of late freezing, droughts – the question of the regime for the compensation of natural disasters has taken a glaring turn. As part of a senatorial fact-finding mission "on climate risk management and the evolution of our compensation systems," our socialist colleague Senator Nicole Bonnefoy issued a high-quality report in July 2019. This document led to the unanimous adoption of a Senate bill in January 2020, which largely reflected its conclusions. We regret, as we have had the opportunity to say throughout the shuttle, that our assembly and its majority have made the choice not to take advantage of this trans-party work and that they have preferred a bill from our former colleague Stéphane Baudu, tabled a year later. With this in mind, the Socialist and Related Group is pleased that the Joint Joint Committee meeting on this second bill resulted in an agreement, guaranteeing the adoption of a reform of the compensation for natural disasters before the end of this legislature. I commend the convergence work done on this occasion by our two rapporteurs, Christine Lavarde in the Senate and Marguerite Deprez-Audebert in our assembly. This text allows several notable advances to be made, beginning with the creation of the National Advisory Commission, which is responsible for issuing an opinion on an annual basis on the relevance of the criteria for determining the state of natural disasters. While its role is merely advisory, it will allow, for the first time, to question these criteria and adapt them to the realities of the field, thanks in particular to the presence of local elected representatives and representatives of the victims within it. The text also provides that the Interdepartmental Commission for the Recognition of the State of Natural Disasters will be required to publish an annual report containing a summary of the opinions given and a status of the references used to assess the abnormal intensity of natural phenomena. These two provisions will enhance transparency and understanding of the procedure for both elected officials and victims. Similarly, the text significantly improves the compensation procedure for victims – this was a priority development. It extends from two to five years the limitation period for actions for compensation for damage caused by land movements caused by drought-rehydration of the soil, and from eighteen to 24 months the time limit for the municipalities to submit their application for recognition of the state of natural disaster. As for insurers, they will now have to arrange for repairs in kind within one month, and pay compensation to insured persons within three weeks, as against two months for the advance payment and three months for the total today. In addition, the scope of the natural disasters guarantee is extended to cover the costs of emergency rehousing as well as the costs of architecting and managing works. To support communities, especially smaller ones, a reference to the management of the consequences of natural disasters and their compensation will be installed in each department. While all these developments are necessary and positive, this text remains insufficient with regard to risk prevention, in particular the risk associated with the phenomenon of drought and soil rehydration, which will develop. In the coming years, we will have to build tools to better inform people living in risk areas and to better identify the areas in question, and to draw all the consequences for urban planning rules. As we look forward to an upsurge in disasters in the coming years, especially those related to the drought-rehydration risk of soils, we also need to consider the evolution of the financing of the Barnier Fund – the Fund for the Prevention of Major Natural Hazards – so that it retains the capacity to compensate for damage caused by more recurrent and intense major events. [[Mr. Vincent Bru applauds]] Our group will therefore vote in favour of this text as a result of the Joint Joint Committee, but it calls on us to look into these projects now so that the next legislature can take a second step in reshaping the system of compensation for natural disasters, and to reflect ahead on ambitious proactive measures to limit global warming.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1097.u12	Mrs Maina Sage has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1097.u13	I have in my turn a thought for the victims of the Landes and the Pyrénées-Atlantiques, hit for almost three days by floods, floods and torrents of mud. I am also thinking of our friends from Caledonia facing cyclone Ruby, which is expected to fall on their territory in the next few hours. We have also seen terrifying images of Kentucky: murderous tornadoes have razed entire quarters, leaving behind them dreadful scenes of desolation. Extreme weather events are developing all over the world; They obviously do not spare France, including the overseas territories. These are always, and above all, tragedies that leave behind victims suffering from both physical and psychological sequelae. These natural disasters often take precedence over their passages the memories and efforts of a lifetime. In the face of these difficult human trials, the role of the public authority is to structure a mechanism to the height, able to provide an answer that allows for compensation – the least that can be done for those who have lost everything. We can therefore only support a text that improves the system of compensation for natural disasters. Its public-private-type operation, which was praised at the height of the covid -19 pandemic as a model of its kind, however, suffers from a glaring lack of readability. We therefore share the desire of our colleagues in the Group of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats, at the origin of this bill, to provide a more secure framework for both victims and local elected representatives. The latter are often on the front lines, and they are poor when they have to react very quickly to these phenomena. I am thinking of my colleagues on isolated islands of Polynesia, a large territory like Europe with 118 islands, 76 of which are inhabited. The local elected candidate who has to deal with such crises is often alone, two or three hours away – the runway is not even usable – to support the population. This question is increasingly being asked, everywhere, in all our territories. We need to be proactive in responding to these challenges, and to better support our elected officials. The Group of the European People's Party wishes to welcome the spirit of compromise which led to the adoption of a balanced text in the Joint Joint Committee. We salute all the members of Parliament and the senators who have worked on it. Compensation for victims will be improved, in particular by redressing injustice to those residing in local authorities that have not adopted a PPRN. The deadlines are also clarified, and the cost of emergency rehousing for those affected will be secured, which is an excellent thing. The procedure for the recognition of the state of natural disaster is made more transparent. The National Advisory Commission will be composed of local elected representatives and representatives of the victims. The information of local elected officials will be strengthened by the establishment of a reference for the compensation of natural disasters with the Prefect. In addition, the time limit for the formulation of an application for recognition of the state of natural disaster is extended to 24 months. Certainly, these various measures are in the right direction. Our only regret is the withdrawal and swelling of clay, a subject dear to our colleague Vincent Ledoux. We note, however, that Article 7 provides for the submission of a report on this subject, which will include proposals that must be completed in order for us to make real progress on this subject. In conclusion, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, on Thursday morning, during the examination of Title VIII of the bill on differentiation, decentralization, deconcentration, says 3DS, we will examine in section 75 an experimental scheme for five years which will allow the state of exceptional natural calamity to be decreed in the overseas. This will enable the State to provide a more appropriate response to these situations. We will propose amendments so that this mechanism does not interfere with the declaration of a state of natural disaster, so that it can facilitate reconstruction, and in order to strengthen prevention among schools, businesses and public officials. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, LR and Dem groups]] Our group will support the text and I invite you, in turn, to support the adoption of Title VIII of Bill 3DS on Thursday morning.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1097.u14	Mrs Valérie Six has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1097.u15	First of all, I would like to pay tribute to the work of Stéphane Baudu and Marguerite Deprez-Audebert, who sought to simplify the procedures for the compensation of natural disasters. We are well aware that, according to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) and the High Climate Council, the commitments of the Paris Agreement are insufficient to stabilize future warming, and I am all the more disappointed that even this agreement has not yet been fulfilled. Even if global greenhouse gas emissions fell drastically now, we could not avoid the proliferation of natural disasters and the increase in their intensity – cuts in water, electricity, heating, communication, transport and I forget about them. Everything we have patiently built for decades can be removed from the map in a few hours! The almost total destruction of the infrastructure of the valleys above Nice, leaving people in the greatest disarray, is there to remind us, and I have of course a very special thought, like all of you, for the Landes and Bayonne who are undergoing floods at this time. For the IDU and independent group, there are therefore two priorities: the first is to limit our greenhouse gas emissions to the maximum; The second is to adapt our societies and infrastructure without delay to the consequences of climate change by promoting more resilience through the development of a genuine risk culture among our citizens. The increase in severe weather events will result in inflation in the amount of compensation in the coming years. Let us not forget that almost a quarter of the municipalities in our country have already been affected by the consequences of climate change. For example, 60 northern municipalities were recognized as victims of a natural disaster due to drought in 2020. And our system of natural risk coverage, designed more than forty years ago, arrives at the end of the race as we face a major climate crisis. While it was time to meet expectations to facilitate the process, enhance transparency and better accompany municipalities and disaster victims, the financial perspective is vertigo and unsustainable under our current system: for an annual average of EUR 1.1 billion between 2006 and 2020, the gap has been around EUR 2 billion per year since 2016. Some of the measures proposed in this text are welcome, such as the cost of rehousing and the acceleration and simplification of procedures. Indeed, the recognition of the state of natural disasters and the resulting compensation were all too often considered opaque, complex and sometimes unfair. In addition, the extension of the limitation period from two years to five years to require the insurer to pay the compensation, as well as the extension of the reporting period of a claim to his insurance from 10 days to 30 days, will allow for a better recognition of the damage suffered. It will therefore be necessary to anticipate the financial needs and to consider a broader reform including the raising of the Barnier fund to at least EUR 200 million. Given the specific risks of drought and soil rehydration and the fact that more than 4 million houses would potentially be exposed to this hazard, our country must have a genuine territorial prevention strategy to inform good construction and protection practices. [[The rapporteur and Ms Nathalie Bassire applaud]] For all these reasons and in the face of the need for national solidarity for our fellow citizens who find themselves in distress after such phenomena, the IDU and independent group will vote for this text while bearing in mind its inevitable limitations, such as the fact that it will unfortunately only apply to new contracts.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1097.u16	Mr Jean-Michel Clément has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1097.u17	Any parliamentarian who has exercised local mandates, particularly that of mayor, knows the difficulty of the steps to be taken on the long way towards the compensation of natural disasters. I witnessed it. This text, although late, goes in the right direction as it intends to correct the shooting. The Liberties and Territories Group therefore welcomes the agreement reached in the Joint Joint Committee. First of all, I would like to go back to the somewhat specific parliamentary route that this bill has followed. As most of the groups pointed out at first reading, it includes a large number of provisions in Senator Nicole Bonnefoy's bill, which, as a reminder, was passed unanimously in the Senate on January 15, 2020. It would have been preferable to respect the principle of parliamentary bicameralism by resuming it directly, even if it had to be retouched if necessary. I still do not understand the reasons why the Government did not wish to express its support for this text from the Senate, even though it had made a commitment to deepen the work on this issue without delay. Instead, we face unfortunate competition between two texts. A shared approach, commensurate with the stakes, would have saved two years, which, in the face of the urgency of the situation, is not negligible! However, we take note of the agreement reached in CMP... even if it is at the end of the legislature, only a few months from the elections.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1097.u18	That's right! What a coincidence!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1097.u19	Beyond the legislative procedure, I would like to welcome this bill, which responds to the expectations of our fellow citizens who face significant difficulties in their dealings and relations with insurers. Many of the territories affected by natural disasters and many of us called for improvements to the CatNat regime to make it more transparent and accessible. In this respect, our group shares the ambition of this text. Between floods, droughts and erosion of the coastline, natural disasters have doubled in 20 years as a result of global warming. This is an additional argument in favour of a real ecological turning point for the territories and for the local economies. And this deterioration has called into question the great balances of the French model of compensation for natural disasters. It had therefore become urgent to rethink it. This text makes significant improvements. Thus, it proposes both reforms of the procedure for the recognition of the state of natural disasters and a strengthening of the rights of insured persons and compensation for victims. The question of greater transparency of the compensation scheme is also being addressed, which our group welcomes. Indeed, the publication of the opinion and expert reports used by the interdepartmental commission will help to respond to the challenges of the field by facilitating the work of local elected officials with their officials. In pursuit of the same objective, the creation of a focal point for the management of natural disasters will simplify the dialogue between the State and the territorial authorities: state representatives in the territories must more than ever work hand in hand with local elected officials, especially in the face of episodes of great violence. Title II deals with improving and simplifying procedures for our affected citizens. We welcome the abolition of the modulation of franchises according to whether or not there is a plan to prevent natural risks. Indeed, it was a double penalty for insured persons, who were under no circumstances responsible for this situation. As regards the damage caused by droughts and the withdrawal and swelling of clays, which are covered by Title III, certain arrangements should be developed. In fact, while new constructions are relatively spared, this phenomenon particularly affects the old one, and the damage often only appears after several episodes of drought, which tend to multiply in recent years without being linked to a particular year. The bill paves the way for reflection on the matter by providing that the Government should submit a report on the subject, but the problems are already well known! We would have preferred that parliamentary work be done rather than having to rely as always on a government report. While, from a general point of view, the bill is a step forward, we regret that it is not intended to reform the operation of the Barnier Fund, the major natural hazard prevention fund, as was done by Senator Nicole Bonnefoy's bill, which was further enriched by honourable senators and, I repeat, adopted unanimously. In conclusion, if we regret the lack of ambition of this bill, we believe that it will respond to the demands of our fellow citizens and local elected officials, and we will vote for it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1097.u20	Mr Michel Larive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1097.u21	First of all, I associate myself with the compassion expressed by the various groups towards the inhabitants of the Landes and the Basque Country who are suffering the consequences of the violent floods of recent days. On Wednesday, 8 December, the Joint Joint Committee reached agreement on the proposal for a law to reform the system of compensation for natural disasters. It is of course desirable to increase the information of those affected who seek recognition of the state of natural disasters, and to improve transparency on the outcome of their requests, on the possibilities for redress and on the amount of compensation, as proposed in the text. I regret, however, that this bill completely ignores the exceptional crisis situation we are going through and thus lacks the opportunity to adapt the natural disaster regime to the challenges of the economic and health situation. We were told at first reading that this bill was not intended to deal with this issue: that is what we are accusing him of. Indeed, since the beginning of the health crisis, the insurance sector has not responded to its responsibilities, leaving thousands of small businesses without even partial management of their operating losses due to the health situation. Only 50 % of the companies are covered by insurance contracts which guarantee protection against operating losses, and even for the latter, the insurance companies have interpreted the contracts in the most restrictive way possible, leaving most of the companies affected by the crisis without covering their operating losses, while the capital eligible for the required solvency capital amounts to EUR 313 billion and insurance is among the most generous companies in dividends.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1097.u22	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1097.u23	The insurance sector, whose profits have been spared by the crisis and whose shareholders are doing their best, must therefore be tapped! My colleague, Loïc Prud'homme, has tabled a bill to fill this wide gap by reforming the system of compensation for natural disasters so that it covers the damage caused by pandemics. Its text, defended during the parliamentary niche of our group La France insoumée, was unfortunately rejected by the majority, clearly satisfied with the primacy of the interests of a handful of shareholders on national solidarity. When CAC40 companies benefit from the drop in production taxes and other government broads without ecological or social conditions, thousands of very small enterprises (SMEs), small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) and self-employed are at risk of bankruptcy! The possible additional costs of reforming the pandemic-integrated natural disaster compensation system could, for example, be financed by a tax on the dividends of insurance multinationals. But the Government decided otherwise: it preferred to rely on a working group that had not produced a single concrete proposal. The subject is therefore systematically ruled out despite about ten bills tabled in the National Assembly or Senate since the beginning of the crisis to cover the exploitation losses caused by epidemics and pandemics. Therefore, while the adoption of this bill is a step forward of common sense, it is highly regrettable that there is no opportunity for reform of the natural disaster compensation system to fill its main flaw. National representation remains deaf, once again. Despite this, our group will still vote on this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1097.u24	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1097.u25	After a joint concluding committee, we are once again in the Chamber to discuss the proposal for a law to reform the system of compensation for natural disasters. In the face of repeated climatic hazards in recent years, the observation is unequivocal: this insurance regime is increasingly obsolete and is no longer adapted to the many consequences of climate and environmental disruptions. You are, like me, elected officials and you have seen the natural disaster files repeat, become increasingly common and affect a growing number of geographical areas. This bill is therefore welcome. It could no doubt have been more complete and went further, but we should welcome the work of our colleague rapporteur, who has been able to draw up a text to move the current regime forward, without, however, upsetting it. In its latest report, Ubyrisk Consultants has identified data on natural disasters over the past 20 years: since 1 January 2001, Hexagon and the Overseas Territories have suffered 1964 natural disasters, which cost nearly €49 billion in damage. The UN, for its part, recalled in October 2020 that the number of natural disasters has doubled in 20 years. This must alert us to the need for more ambitious and radical measures in the short term. Of course, with this text, we are still far from radical measures, but the progress it introduces is interesting for a number of reasons. As regards the insured person, first of all: the extension of the time limit available to him to declare a claim to his insurer once the state of natural disaster is recognized is a good thing, as is the reduction of the period of compensation for the victims or the taking over, by insurance, of the costs of rehousing. These points are essential for the victims, who are sometimes completely deprived. Secondly, at the level of local elected officials, the establishment of a focal point is a step forward to assist mayors who are responsible for drawing up the application file for recognition of the state of natural disaster. This approach is sometimes tedious, especially for small municipalities. However, as I said earlier, this bill does not answer all the questions. Barriers remain to be overcome, both in compensation and tariffs. To take an example that I know well, in my department of Allier, I will refer to the drought-rehydration of the soil, a recurring phenomenon after three consecutive years of drought. In accordance with the rules in force, disaster victims residing in the municipalities recognised as natural disaster suffer a deductible of 1520 euros in the event of a drought-rehydration phenomenon, whereas they are "only" 380 euros in the event of flooding. It's a very important sum. In addition, the deductible is doubled on a second claim declaration for the same reason, and so on, up to a fourfold increase in the amount of the deductible in the event of repeated findings of a natural disaster. This system of multiplication of the franchise is completely obsolete compared to the repetitive climatic hazards that we are experiencing. Nor does this text provide an answer to the victims who live in a municipality which has not obtained the state of natural disaster or has failed to do so, for some reason. These victims – I know of them – remain without any solution. These are examples among many others that lead me to use this forum to draw your attention to the path we still have to go. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups, and on some benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Nevertheless, I repeat, this text proposes positive developments which the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left will vote for.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1097.u26	Mr Laurent Saint-Martin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1097.u27	On Wednesday, 8 December, the Joint Joint Committee meeting under the proposed law to define pre-reform provisions for the compensation of natural disasters reached an agreement. On behalf of the La République on the move, I welcome this outcome, which owes a great deal to the commitment of the two Rapporteurs of the CMP, Senator Christine Lavarde and the Member of Parliament Marguerite Deprez-Audebert. It is also appropriate, as has been done on many occasions, to mention the quality of the work done by our former colleague Stéphane Baudu, the author of the original bill, who has been able to sum up several preliminary parliamentary reflections and initiatives. What are the contributions of the text that we are proposing to adopt today? I remember four of them. First of all, the bill aims to improve the transparency of the procedure and the information of victims.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1097.u28	That's good, transparency!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1097.u29	Article 1 thus specifies the terms of the motivation of the interministerial decree declaring the state of natural disaster. It will be a matter of relying, more than at present, on expert reports. Article 4 also provides for the establishment of the National Consultative Commission on Natural Disasters, which is a major step forward: it will challenge, each year, in an opinion, the relevance of the criteria used to determine the recognition of the state of natural disasters. Local elected representatives will be widely present in this committee and Parliament will receive its annual opinion. Secondly, the text improves the procedure for the recognition of the state of natural disasters and the compensation of victims. Article 3 provides that the absence of a plan to prevent foreseeable natural risks (PPNRP) cannot lead to modulation of the deductible, if any, borne by the insured person. On the other hand, in the absence of such a plan, although it is prescribed, a modulation of the exemption will apply to local authorities or their groups in respect of the goods insured by these communities – the insured will thus be relieved of any additional costs which would have been beyond their control and the communities are encouraged to establish and adopt a PPRNP. Article 5 clarifies and limits the time limits that apply once the state of natural disaster has been declared, with regard to the application of contractual provisions between the insurer and the insured. In addition, the rights of the insured are improved, especially when the disaster is caused by a drought-rehydration phenomenon. Thus, for such damage, the guarantee covers all works allowing an interruption of the existing disorders resulting from the event when the expert finds that the building has been damaged or that the property is in a condition which renders it unfit for its destination. In general, the rights to obtain cross-expertise and detailed information during the course of the expertise are strengthened. Finally, Article 6 provides for the extension of the guarantee of insured persons to cover the costs of rehousing when necessary, as well as the expenses of architect and work manager. Thirdly, the text reinforces the support of the municipalities and the victims. Article 2 creates in each department a reference to the management of the consequences of natural disasters and their compensation, which has the role of accompanying municipalities facing natural disasters. Without being entrusted with the preventive tasks which the Senate wished to assign to it, this reference has a role of disseminating better information to the communes of the department, the inhabitants, the companies and the associations of disaster victims on the prevention and management of the consequences of natural disasters. It also makes available to municipalities and administrators standard documents to enable each actor, in due course, to follow the procedures expeditiously and appropriately. Finally, the fourth and final point, the text considerably improves the procedure for compensation of victims,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1097.u30	There was a need for it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1097.u31	... including with regard to the risk of drought and soil rehydration. In this case, the limitation period for actions for compensation is substantially extended from two to five years, as is the period during which a municipality can, for such damage, invoke the state of natural disaster – everyone knows that damage in this area sometimes takes time to appear! A long legislative path remains to be taken, especially for the risk of drought-rehydration – everyone agrees –...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1097.u32	And the risk of fire!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1097.u33	... and the report requested from the Government, in a muscular version, will set the necessary milestones. In conclusion, the La République en marche group will enthusiastically vote on this bill...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1097.u34	Why? Usually it's not with enthusiasm?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1097.u35	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] ... which really improves the information and rights of local and regional authorities and insured persons. This text illustrates Parliament's ability to carry out high-quality work in the service of the French. He brought his stone, discreet but substantial, to the balance sheet of the legislature.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1097.u36	Finally, a text that the majority enthusiastically votes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1097.u37	Mrs Nathalie Bassire has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1097.u38	On behalf of the Republicans, I also welcome the agreement reached in the CMP and the outcome of this expected text. In this regard, I would like to commend the work of Stéphane Baudu and Marguerite Deprez-Audebert to make the system of compensation for natural disasters clearer and less centralized. In Réunion and elsewhere – and today in the Landes – we know the ravages of natural disasters and how they can cause considerable damage in the territories and human tragedies for our fellow citizens. Moreover, it has been recalled that we all agree that climate events will, unfortunately, be increasingly frequent and will cause more and more serious damage. In the face of these challenges, we cannot remain powerless, because these sinisters have sometimes terrible material repercussions, which oblige us to accompany and compensate all those who pay a heavy toll on the ravages of nature. These events can be impressive, such as storms, volcanic eruptions, earthquakes or floods, but also more discreet, at least in appearance, like periods of drought that cause the retraction of clay soils and the cracking of houses. However, in the face of these phenomena, the law in force is clearly no longer appropriate. The procedures for recognizing the state of natural disasters remain very opaque. This lack of transparency, but also the slowness and blockages, all too often lead to the misunderstanding of the victims who then experience a feeling of injustice. They feel destitute, if not lost, in the face of the procedures, the remedies and the many interlocutors they have to deal with. For their part, local elected officials, especially mayors, often feel isolated and powerless, because they do not have information or explanations to pass on to their officials, even though they are on the front line. In this context, Members of the Republican Group welcome the efforts made by the Group of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and Related Democrats to provide concrete and adequate answers in its draft law for the benefit of the victims. After working with associations of disaster victims, we too have proposed amendments and participated in the co-construction of this text, which we will finally adopt today.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1097.u39	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1097.u40	We regret, however, that the bill does not deal with ongoing claims, for which the difficulties are often real.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1097.u41	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1097.u42	What about existing buildings, ladies and gentlemen? What preventive response can we provide? This text does not say anything about all the actions that we still have to build together. Finally, while this is not the subject of this bill, it is urgent, Minister Delegate, to revise the Pandemic Operational Loss Compensation Plan. The current crisis has shown us how dramatic the situation of many trade, catering and event professionals, who feel abandoned by their insurers, is. Members of the Republicans Group were the first to call for the creation of a health disaster regime along the lines of natural disasters and to table bills to that effect. [[Applause on a few benches of the LR and Dem groups]] In any event, our group fully endorses this text, which, although it does not solve all the problems, is undeniably in the right direction.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1097.u43	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1097.u44	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1097.u45	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1097.u46	I shall put the whole bill to the vote, taking into account the text of the Joint Joint Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1097.u47	The next item is the debate on the proposal for a law to strengthen the environmental regulation of digital technology by the Authority for the Regulation of Electronic Communications, Posts and Distribution of the Press (No. 4628, 4710).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1097.u48	The Secretary of State for Digital Transition and Electronic Communications had the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1097.u49	We are meeting to discuss the proposal for a law to strengthen the environmental regulation of digital technology by the Authority for the Regulation of Electronic Communications, Post and Distribution of the Press (ARCEP). It is in the wake of the bill to reduce the environmental footprint of digital technology in France, known as REEN, which you examined last May, which was adopted in conformity by the Senate in the autumn and then promulgated on 15 November, and as a continuation of the work led by the Senate and the Assembly in the framework of the "climate and resilience" bill, aimed at combating climate disruption and strengthening resilience to its effects. Article 1 of the draft law incorporates the provisions approved by the two chambers at the end of the parliamentary shuttle, aimed at providing ARCEP with the power to collect environmental data, which is essential for a better knowledge of the environmental footprint and for the development of a true environmental barometer of digital technology, as provided for in the REEN law. This new strategic tool will enable ARCEP to collect data on all digital players, not just from telecommunications operators, as it is now. Thus, this provision is fully in line with the strategy for a digital environment that is more respectful of its environmental footprint, which Barbara Pompili and I presented a few months ago, particularly in her first focus entitled "Measure the environmental footprint of digital". By reintroducing into the bill a provision that the Constitutional Council had censored, by virtue of its doctrine on legislative riders, you are doing a useful job: it will help to overcome legal and technical difficulties, thus restoring the full operational scope of the REEN law. In the Senate, the Government wished to amend the text by adding a second article, which corrects a legal difficulty related to a mismatch between Senator Patrick Chaize's bill and the Ordinance of 29 September 2021 on the legal guarantee of compliance for goods, digital content and digital services, transposing directives 2019/ 770 and 2019/771. This second article aims to preserve the accessibility and intelligibility of the consumer code – two objectives of constitutional value – without in any way calling into question the advances envisaged by the REEN law in consumer protection with regard to updates of digital products and services. [[Applause on a few benches of the groups LaREM, Dem and Agir ens. – Mr. Jean-Paul Dufrègne also applauds]] The Government hopes that the Assembly will vote in accordance with the Senate version, so that the law will be promulgated by the end of the year: this will complete the legislative provisions aimed at bringing the digital transition and the environmental transition together.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1097.u50	Mr Vincent Thiébaut, rapporteur of the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1097.u51	The bill that we are about to consider is finalizing legislative work that has been going on for several months, with the aim of reducing and regulating the environmental footprint of digital technology – particularly the Senate-issued REEN Act, passed last November. Digital technology undeniably leads to environmental gains in many sectors – industry, agriculture, energy consumption of buildings, transport, etc.; For example, the development of video conferencing helps to limit displacement and thus reduce greenhouse gas emissions. However, due attention should be paid to the fact that digital growth also has a negative impact on greenhouse gas emissions, energy consumption and the use of abiotic resources, particularly for the manufacture of terminals. The environmental gains generated by digital technology should therefore not be offset by the environmental impact that digital technology has on the environment, either directly or indirectly. This sector accounts for almost 4% of global greenhouse gas emissions, and 2% of French CO emissions. On a constant political level, digital programming is expected to grow by 60% by 2040, so the stakes are high. There was an urgent need for action, since digital technology had been too long a blind spot in environmental and climate policies. The parliamentary mission launched by the Senate resulted in the REEN bill, which the National Assembly, in turn, passed – I would like to salute Secretary of State Cédric O, who defended the text in the Chamber, just as I welcome the commitment of senators, in particular Patrick Chaize, the author of the bill, and the rapporteurs Guillaume Chevrollier and Jean-Michel Houllegatte. The text was the result of a work of legislative co-construction between the Senate and the National Assembly, which had enriched it in many respects. The REEN Act, promulgated on 15 November, contains many unprecedented advances that reconcile the inevitable development of the digital sector with the concern to preserve the environment and the climate. It will increase the awareness of digital users of the environmental impact of digital technology, through training in digital sobriety, and enable researchers to become familiar with ecodesign. It also creates an observatory on the environmental impacts of digital technology, attached to the Environmental Transition Agency (ADEME) and ARCEP, through which we will have common benchmarks for measuring the positive and negative effects of digital technology on the environment. This bill furthers our unprecedented ambition to reduce the environmental footprint of digital technology. There was an urgent need to legislate to complement existing measures and legislation – I am thinking in particular of the 2020 law on the fight against waste and the circular economy, known as the AGEC law, which introduced advances in repackaging, re-use or programmed software obsolescence. Adopted by the Senate on November 2, the bill has two main objectives, set out in its two articles. Its inclusion in the agenda of parliamentary proceedings follows the censorship by the Constitutional Council of article 16 of the "climate and resilience" law on the basis of article 45 of the Constitution: the purpose of article 1 of this text is to restore it. It strengthens ARCEP's environmental regulatory power and empowers it to collect information on the environmental footprint of digital technology from stakeholders in the sector, in particular from communication service providers. As for Article 2, it complements a mechanism provided for in the REEN Act and coordinates with European directives, some of which date from September 2021. This specifies provisions for software and programmed obsolescence or necessary and mandatory updates – essential elements for the life of the devices. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] The bill that we are about to vote on – I dare not doubt – will allow the previously adopted legislation to be fully operational. It complements an unprecedented set of provisions that make France a precursor country on a European and global scale. I am pleased that we are examining it tonight, and I thank the Secretary of State for the work he has devoted to it. I shall express one regret, which I would ask you to relay, Secretary of State: we are still awaiting measures relating to reconditioners.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1097.u52	In the general discussion, the floor was Ms Nathalie Bassire.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1097.u53	Since the 2000s, the use of digital technology has been constantly increasing. In 20 years, the proportion of households with Internet access has increased from 5% to 90%. From now on, digital usage is an integral part of our daily lives. They undoubtedly have advantages: facilitation of exchanges, better sharing of information, or instant communication. But while the transition to the digital age leads to obvious improvements in our daily lives, it also has harmful effects on the environment: multiplication of equipment, consumption of energy and raw materials, pollution and waste generation. For the climate, the benefits are not always the same. Overconsumption of increasingly efficient and energy-efficient devices increases the environmental consequences of digital...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1097.u54	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1097.u55	...so much so that digital sobriety becomes one of the new challenges of the century.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1097.u56	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1097.u57	In the summer of 2019, an analysis by The Shift Project already alerted us to the considerable levels of pollution generated by the use of new technologies, video feed in mind. His authors called for a real paradigm shift from instinctive digital to conscious and thoughtful digital. So we can only thank and congratulate Senator Patrick Chaize on his bill, which meets a major need.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1097.u58	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1097.u59	It aims to restore the provisions of article 5 ter of the "climate and resilience" law, which had been adopted by the National Assembly but censored on the basis of article 45 of the Constitution, on the ground that it did not have any link, even indirect, with article 1 of the original draft law providing for the posting of information on the environmental characteristics of certain products.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1097.u60	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1097.u61	The provisions enabling ARCEP to ensure that operators comply with existing laws and regulations, in order to ensure better protection of the environment and health, must be established. Indeed, the findings of the fact-finding mission on the environmental footprint of digital technology in France point to an inexorable rise in this pollution. If nothing is done to stop the dynamics, digital, which emitted 15 million tonnes of carbon equivalent in 2019, or 2% of total emissions from France,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1097.u62	That's it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1097.u63	... will generate emissions of 24 million tonnes by 2040, or about 7% of France's emissions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1097.u64	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1097.u65	These issues, which lead to a collective cost of EUR 1 billion, could therefore amount to EUR 12 billion in 20 years.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1097.u66	Mazette!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1097.u67	[[Applause on several benches in the LR group. – Mrs Nicole Dubré-Chirat also applauds]] There is an urgent need to talk about the new phenomenon of digital pollution, and to prevent it. The Les Républicains group, which supported Senator Patrick Chaize's bill to reduce the environmental footprint of digital technology in France, will therefore support this text, which reintroduces an essential provision, unfortunately censored.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1097.u68	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1097.u69	Mrs Marguerite Deprez-Audebert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1097.u70	The proposal for a law strengthening the environmental regulation of digital technology, which we are looking at this evening, aims to give ARCEP the power to collect data on the environmental impact of networks, electronic communication services and communications services to the public; It also provides for ARCEP to be given the power to specify the rules on content and the manner in which information relating to this environmental footprint can be made available. It is in the context of an increased consideration of environmental issues, requiring legislative coherence with the growing digitisation of our society. The text complements the laws we passed in this area in 2021, to facilitate their implementation. The power to collect data conferred on ARCEP was included in the REEN bill, adopted on 15 November, as well as in the "climate and resilience" law adopted on 20 July. While the establishment of an environmental data collection power by ARCEP, under the "climate and resilience" law, has been censored by the Constitutional Council,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1097.u71	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1097.u72	... the bill before us today restores this important mechanism because it is necessary for the practical application of the rules on the greening of the digital sector. Therefore, the text will allow the Regulatory Authority to verify compliance with the defined principles by carrying out site checks of actors subject to the environmental regulation of digital technology and requesting access to documents. This more precise information and indicators will, in particular, enable ARCEP's State of the Internet report to include an assessment of the environmental footprint of the electronic communications sector, terminals and data centres. Aware of the need to reconcile our digitisation objectives with our ecological ambitions, the Group of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats is in favour of the measures contained in this bill and will vote on it. Globally, digital accounts for 3.7% of greenhouse gas emissions. For France, this rate could reach 7% by 2040 if we do not take ambitious measures today. Beyond greenhouse gas emissions, the production of our computers and smartphones, which involve the extraction and refining of different metals, has a considerable impact on our environment. This impact should be reduced by promoting, for example, recycling as provided for in the REEN Act. The digitisation of our society must not run counter to our goal of climate neutrality by 2050. This is also a priority set out in the European Recovery Plan NextGenerationEU, which aims to make ecology and digital technologies the vectors for sustainable and responsible economic growth in Europe to emerge from the crisis of the covid-19. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem and LaREM groups]] On the eve of the French Presidency of the Council of the European Union, our national legislation must be exemplary in the light of our European and international commitments under the Green Pact for Europe and the Paris Agreement of 2015. In this context, it is essential to bring digital development into line with ecological imperatives. We therefore welcome the strengthening of legislative mechanisms to better control the environmental impact of digital technology contained in this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1097.u73	Mrs Chantal Jourdan has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1097.u74	As we know, digital pollution is an important challenge in the fight against climate change. The last Senate report on this issue stated that, on the current trajectory, the sector could account for 7% of our greenhouse gas emissions by 2040. The Socialist and Related Group welcomes the fact that Parliament has taken up this issue, in particular thanks to the REEN Act, which was enacted in mid-November. The bill that we are looking at today is intended to complement the REEN Act, which it must facilitate by fully arming the regulator in the implementation of environmental regulation in the digital sector. It includes an original article of the REEN law which was finally passed in the "climate and resilience" law and then censored by the Constitutional Council on the grounds that it was a legislative rider. This article allows ARCEP to collect data on the environmental footprint of the electronic communications sector and its closely related sectors from online public communications services, electronic communications service providers to the online public, data centre operators, terminal equipment manufacturers, network equipment providers and operating system providers. Article 2 seeks to correct legislative coordination errors contained in the REEN Act while preserving in substance the contributions of this Act. [[Applause on the SOC benches]] We wish to reiterate our regret that the initial ambition of the REEN Act has been reduced to the Assembly at the initiative of the Government and its majority. This text could have been more ambitious. I am thinking in particular of the fight against programmed obsolescence and the information to consumers by suppliers on the lifespan of products with digital elements. I am also thinking of a better framework for infinite scrolling – or scroll – and automatic playback. Nevertheless, this law contains important provisions and is an essential first step towards a general awareness of the environmental impact of digital technology. Thus, we must ensure that the provisions contained in this text will be fully operational. That is the purpose of the bill that we are considering today, and that is why the Socialist and related group will vote for it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1097.u75	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1097.u76	Mrs Maina Sage has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1097.u77	We are looking at the proposed law to strengthen the environmental regulation of digital technology by ARCEP. It's true, digital is a major solution to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions in other areas of activity: it allows us to dematerialize many services while avoiding a large number of trips or printouts on paper. However, like all activities, digital is not pollution-free. In 2018, it accounted for 3.7% of greenhouse gas emissions. Therefore, in a future in which its development is inevitable, especially in the wake of the health crisis which has increased the use of telework, our responsibility is to anticipate this issue both upstream with the players in the sector and downstream with the consumers. The text we are looking at today is intended to strengthen environmental regulation measures in the digital sector, bearing in mind that a first law was passed on 15 November 2021, and that it contains numerous provisions supplementing certain elements of the "climate and resilience" law. This text rewrites and clarifies the competence of ARCEP, in particular with regard to the evaluation of the data collected from the actors in the sector, whether one is a service provider, data centre operator, equipment manufacturer, network equipment manufacturer, operating system supplier. All of these data are necessary for a better understanding of the environmental footprint of this sector. The Authority may specify the rules on content and the manner in which such information is made available with a view to the installation of an observatory on the environmental impacts of digital technology. The Act will also allow the Authority to impose financial penalties for non-compliance with reporting obligations. An Article 2 was added at first reading in the Senate, at the initiative of the Government, to bring into line the Act of November 2021 and the Ordinance of 29 September 2021 on the legal guarantee of conformity for digital goods, content and services transposing Directive 2019-770 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 May 2019. This will significantly strengthen reporting obligations to both the professional seller and the consumer. For example, for each update of the digital elements of the product, the producer will now need to provide a readable and understandable explanation of the impact on product performance, the evolution of functionality, and the storage space required for the installation of these updates. Finally, the same Article specifies the obligations relating to commercial guarantees which will have to apply without prejudice to the legal guarantee of conformity. This subject had been the subject of a lengthy debate here at first reading. The so-called sustainability guarantees may be greater than two years, with an obligation to repair or replace the property which will be the responsibility of the producer. I would like to draw your attention here to the need for better control of repair and reconditioning networks so that this text does not cause a perverse boon either. I think that this House should be interested in the quality of these networks, since several scandals have erupted this year on price abuses and a certain opacity in the methods used in repairing them. We must ensure that consumers are protected. The overall objective of this text is both to support greater energy efficiency in the digital sector by encouraging telecommunications operators to improve the energy efficiency of their networks and data centres, while encouraging greater consumer sobriety by focusing on ways of repairing and reconditioning. Here I welcome the importance of sharing information that I consider to be the key to raising awareness and empowering digital users. The aim is to introduce new, less carbon-emitting practices. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] The Group of the European People's Party will vote unreservedly in favour of this bill, which will enable better environmental regulation of the digital sector.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1097.u78	Mr Thierry Benoit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1097.u79	I tell you at the outset: the IDU and independent group will vote for this bill, which I will call reparation, since it takes over the famous article 16 of the climate and resilience law, censored by the Constitutional Council. This bill strengthens ARCEP's environmental regulatory power. This is the heart of this old article 16 which has become a bill, allowing the collection of information on the environmental footprint of digital technology from the players in the sector. Everyone agrees, especially the people and elected representatives who live in rural areas, that digital technology brings people and territories closer together and, above all, connects them. Digital technology has also provided greater freedom and flexibility in many situations. It has been a source of growth and employment. I will take as the only example the period of health crisis that we have been experiencing for the past two years. Thanks to digital technology, we have been able to encourage a number of our fellow citizens to stay at home to exercise what is now commonly known as telework. The IDU and independent group naturally believes in the benefits and virtues of technical progress, of which digital is a part. Thanks to undeniable environmental gains, it makes possible our ecological transition, to which it is indispensable. Nevertheless, digital use has an environmental impact, accounting for almost 4% of global greenhouse gas emissions and 2% of France's CO emissions, which could increase by 60% by 2040. That is to say, there is scope to focus on the environmental aspect of digital – what you are doing, Mr. Secretary of State – in the face of society at all-display and the race to the latest consumption models. There is a need to build a society that does not focus solely on consumption and growth. However, digital is, I insist, responsible for gas emissions. I take this opportunity to welcome the work of our colleague Laure de la Raudière, with whom I have had the chance and the privilege of sitting here for several years. As President of ARCEP, she wants to make the environment the fourth pillar of regulation and advocates for more dialogue on societal choices that will be crucial in the years to come. [[Applause on the benches of the IDU-I groups, as well as on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] In conclusion, I repeat that with my colleague Valérie Six, who is with me tonight representing the IUD-I group, I will vote for this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1097.u80	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1097.u81	Internet users often forget that behind their digital exchanges, which we all think are dematerialized, there is a world of terminals, servers, air-conditioned buildings, cables and other relays, with a real environmental impact. The digital sector is already responsible for 2% of France's greenhouse gas emissions, and 3% to 4% worldwide, which seems to be one and a half times more than air transport. In this sector, the sector's primary sources of pollution are mobile phones, computers, televisions, game consoles and other connected speakers, the manufacture of which alone accounts for 81% of its emissions. Although less important, the pollution of data centres, the famous data centers, still weighs 14% of the emissions in France. These already important environmental externalities are bound to grow in the coming years with the development of new uses, because 5G, connected objects or block chain are certainly carriers of technical innovations, but also vectors of energy overconsumption: it is the famous rebound effect, which worries many scientists and actors engaged in the fight against global warming. Thus, at a time when many people are rhyming digitally with the fight against climate change, caution should be called. Some innovations, it is true, have potential for environmental gain, but others do not have the capacity to do so structurally. In this context, it is not justified to have a general rejection attitude or to show blind faith in technology. We must be able to identify the conditions under which it is relevant to deploy a digital solution, in order to build a resilient and sustainable system. To achieve this, it is necessary to measure the environmental impact of digital technology using relevant tools. This is the whole purpose of the bill we are considering today, which includes provisions censored by the Constitutional Council of the "climate and resilience" law. Article 16 thus entrusted ARCEP, on the one hand, with the power to collect certain documents or information relating to the environmental footprint of digital technology and, on the other hand, with the power to specify the rules relating to the content and the manner in which information relating to this footprint is made available. It goes without saying that these are provisions of common sense, which aim to arm ARCEP fully in the establishment of environmental regulation of digital technology, and to lay the foundations for a better framework for its perverse effects. In addition, this is essential in order to make effective the provisions of the law aimed at reducing the environmental footprint of digital technology, which was finally adopted on 15 November. However, let's hope that ARCEP fulfils its role of environmental regulation better than it does with the regulation of digital technology, including territorial regulation. To be useful, let us recognize that the bill has a limited ambition. Nor should we forget the shortcomings of our policy to combat pollution in the digital sector: 5G frequencies have been allocated without prior environmental impact assessment; the "climate and resilience" law only evokes the digital transition; The road map presented by the Government does not provide sufficient guarantees for reducing the climate impact of the sector, as noted by the High Climate Council. In fact, it was not until the Senate came to the issue through a bill that this issue was placed on the Orders of the Day and some action was taken. In our view, the legislation to reduce the environmental footprint of digital technology and the bill we are considering today, which is its necessary corollary, are only a first step. We are convinced that we need to push the logic much further, to fight more effectively against the planned obsolescence, to limit the production and manufacture of new terminals, and to rethink our overall relationship to innovation under the prism of its environmental impact. In the meantime, our Freedom and Territory Group will support the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1097.u82	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1097.u83	The IPCC scientists, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, recalled this on 9 August last by rendering the first part of their sixth report: the scale of recent changes is "unprecedented", especially for sea-level rise, many changes are irreversible and the threshold of +1.5 degrees Celsius will be reached before 2040. Despite these long-standing, numerous and repeated observations, the commitments of States at COP26, the UN Climate Conference held in Glasgow last month, are insufficient. They lead us to a world of +2.4 degrees Celsius, provided that these commitments are fulfilled: we are far from the figure of +1.5 degrees envisaged by the Paris agreement. However, for each additional half-degree, the report indicates that there will be rapidly discernible increases in the intensity and frequency of heat waves, heavy rainfall and droughts in some regions. There is therefore an urgent need for strong and binding measures to limit global warming, and this also concerns digital technology. In 2019, this sector accounted for 2% of greenhouse gas emissions in France. By 2040, it could reach 6.7%, i.e., a constant political growth of 60%. Let us remember: digital dematerialization is a lure, because it requires large quantities of materials to manufacture terminals, whose trend is not to reduce since the market has increased by 48.5% between 2017 and 2020. However, 70% of the carbon footprint is due to terminal production. In addition, the extraction of these metals generates greenhouse gas emissions and requires a large amount of energy. It also contributes to the pollution of water resources due to the products used and takes place in disastrous or even inhuman social conditions. This is the case with the extraction of coltan, the ore whose metal is found in all digital devices. According to Amnesty International, 40,000 child slaves work in illegal mines in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, usually run by armed militias that finance their military actions by selling this ore. Therefore, by strengthening the possibility for ARCEP to collect data on the environmental footprint of digital technology, the bill is more in the right direction. It complements a first legislative proposal aimed at reducing the environmental footprint of digital technology, discussed in June 2021 and promulgated since then. While the FI Group supports these two texts, we regret their lack of ambition – like the rest of the Government's policy. In fact, they will not significantly reduce the environmental footprint of this yet high sector. This is all the more true since the Government has reduced the scope of the first bill by deciding to subject reconditioned devices to the private copying charge. This measure was not foreseen in the original version and non-governmental organizations, including Rcube.org, Commown, Les Amis de la Terre ou Halte à l'obsolescence programmed, mobilized in front of the Senate on 20 October 2021 to "declare the disaster that became the digital law after its passage into the hands of LREM", according to the words of Alma Dufour, of the association Les Amis de la Terre. Applying this fee to the repackaged penalizes the sector, while it precisely helps to reduce the environmental impact of digital technology. In addition, the cost of this charge borne by consumers could lead them to prefer the new to the repackaged, as the price of repackaged products will increase. Finally, the repackaged sector also creates non-relocating jobs, which we need greatly. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] It is necessary to introduce binding measures to develop repair and reuse of terminals and to combat planned obsolescence. The planned obsolescence must be abolished, the legal warranty periods of the products should be extended and the durability index, the possibility of repairing them and the length of their lifespan should be extended as soon as possible. There is also a need to create a public service for repair and re-employment, with training for certain professions, such as electricity, electronics, construction and textiles. Ecodesign of products must also be made mandatory in order to limit the use of non-renewable resources. There is still a need to make the availability of spare parts mandatory and to prevent the placing on the market of those with insufficient durability. Finally, ecological and solidarity-based protectionism must be introduced, including the introduction of customs duties on ecological and social criteria. These are some of the conditions that we believe it is necessary to implement in order to engage the urgent ecological bifurcation and solidarity of the entire system of production, trade and consumption that will enable us to cope with climate change and make our societies more resilient. This is the programme we will implement in 2022.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1097.u84	That's a good program! We're gonna vote for it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1097.u85	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1097.u86	The bill before us today complements the law aimed at reducing the environmental and digital footprint in France. In particular, it aims to restore the article, which was intended to give ARCEP the power to collect data on the environmental impact of digital technology from telephone operators, data centre operators, terminal equipment manufacturers, network equipment providers and operating system providers. This provision, originally contained in the text "climate and resilience", had been censored by the Constitutional Council, on the sidelines of our referral, on the grounds that it was a legislative rider. Making the provisions of the law aimed at reducing the environmental footprint of digital technology in France more operational, this bill can only receive our approval. It is in fact a continuation of a text that we have welcomed because it sets the first milestones in a strategy of containment of the increasing contribution of digital technology to greenhouse gas emissions. The subject is of paramount importance. As the Senate information mission on the environmental footprint of digital technology pointed out, "most of the figures available today show that digital technology is responsible for 3.7% of total global greenhouse gas emissions in 2018 and 4.2% of global primary energy consumption. 44% of this footprint would be due to the manufacturing of terminals, computer centres and networks and 56% to their use. In France, Citizing estimates that in the next few decades digital emissions could reach almost 7% of France's greenhouse gas emissions, a much higher level than currently achieved by air transport emissions, which is 4.7%. The deployment of 5G alone could lead, depending on its intensity, to an increase in the carbon impact of digital technology estimated at between 18% and 45% in 2030, two thirds of which would come from imported emissions and one third from the increase in electricity use in France. In addition to energy and climate issues, digital equipment consumes a large number of metals, including a large number of rare metals. In the Annales des Mines, researcher Françoise Berthoud recalled that "a simple smartphone alone concentrates a few dozen different metals, of which, at the end of life, at best, seventeen will be the object of a valuation up to the stage of the recovery of the metal itself. The manufacturing phase of equipment necessary for the processing and exchange of information, such as smartphones, computers, servers or storage equipment, concentrates, on its own, between a quarter and more of the three-quarters of their environmental impacts. The law enacted in mid-November addresses these various aspects of the issue, with measures to combat programmed obsolescence and software obsolescence, as well as to strengthen consumer rights and information, in particular on subsidized mobile offers, but also on the environmental impact of video viewing. It creates a new ecodesign obligation for digital online services, applicable to the largest users of bandwidth. While we have supported these advances, we continue to consider them too modest and insufficiently binding. The GDR Group had proposed more ambitious measures to increase the legal duration of compliance of digital equipment, to improve the collection of waste from electrical and electronic equipment, to prohibit the placing on the market of digital equipment with insufficient repairability and to remove unlimited packages. We believe that further steps should be taken quickly. With these comments in mind, we will of course vote in favour of the proposed law, thus strengthening the collection of information on the environmental footprint of digital technology and sanctions against breaches of the new obligations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1097.u87	On the vote on the bill, I have a request for a public vote before the La République on the move. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr Yannick Haury has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1097.u88	The bill we are looking at aims to strengthen the environmental regulation of digital technology by ARCEP, the regulatory authority chaired by our former colleague Laure de La Raudière. This text is part of the continuity of the laws "anti-spousal and circular economy" and "climate and resilience" that it complements. Adopted in the Senate in October, it takes over section 16 of the "climate and resilience" law censored by the Constitutional Council as a legislative rider. It also complements the bill to reduce the environmental footprint of digital technology in France promulgated on November 15th after we voted in June and the Senate finally passed it on November 2nd. Initially, this bill included a single article giving ARCEP the power to collect data on the environmental impact of digital technology. From now on, an assessment of the environmental footprint of the electronic communications sector, terminals and data centres will be included in the institution's annual report on the state of the Internet. At the sitting, an article was added to the Government's initiative to bring the law of 15 November 2021 into line with the Ordinance of 29 September 2021 on the legal guarantee of conformity for goods, digital content and digital services, transposing Directive (EU) 2019/770 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 May 2019. This text was adopted without amendment by our Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning. Digital technology has long been described as a dead end to environmental and climate policies. Members of the LaREM Group welcome the public authorities' awareness of the environmental footprint of digital technology, which has been manifested since the beginning of the quinquennium through the adoption of these various laws. In February, Barbara Pompili, Minister of Environmental Transition, and Cédric O, Secretary of State for Digital Transition and Electronic Communications, presented the "Digital and Environment" Roadmap, which aims to bring ecological and digital transitions together. In particular, it proposes the establishment of an environmental barometer of digital players and the launch of a campaign on good practices to minimise the environmental impact of digital tools. Thanks to its referral by these two members of the Government, the National Digital Council also published in 2020, in partnership with the High Climate Council, its "road map on the environment and digital. 50 measures for a national and European agenda on responsible digital, i.e. sober and at the service of the ecological and solidarity transition and the objectives of sustainable development". Finally, I would like to point out that the law of 15 November 2021 is the first text adopted to reduce the impact of digital technology on the environment. We can be proud of this: it includes several very concrete measures to make digital users aware of their environmental impact, to limit the renewal of terminals, to develop environmentally virtuous digital uses and to promote less energy-intensive data centres and networks. It is happy and responsible that this essential issue for the future brings us together in a trans-partisan spirit, both in the Senate and here in our assembly, on all benches, around our rapporteur Vincent Thiébaut. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] For all these reasons and to continue this dynamic, the LaREM members will vote in favour of this bill and want it to enter into force quickly.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1097.u89	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1097.u90	I now call, in the text of the committee, the articles of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1097.u91	I put the whole bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1097.u92	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 43 Number of votes cast 43 Absolute majority 22 For adoption 43 Against 0
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1097.u93	The next item is the report by the Joint Joint Committee on the proposal for a law on emergency measures to ensure the regulation of access to agricultural land through membership structures (No 4759).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1097.u94	Mr Jean-Bernard Sempastous, rapporteur of the Joint Committee, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1097.u95	It is with a little emotion that I turn to you tonight to close more than a year of work in the service of this bill. As you know, this final text is the result of several construction stages. We have spent months working with professional agricultural organisations that have always supported this initiative, and which I thank today, but also with rural law professionals whose investment and expertise I welcome. We benefited from a fine analysis by the Council of State, which allowed us to adjust the scheme to ensure that it was in line with our European and constitutional principles. It is our responsibility to verify that we are building texts that are consistent with these principles. The report of the High Court confirmed the proportionality of this new system to these higher standards. I welcome this, especially since all these precautions have not prevented us from building an effective and balanced text that will serve the agricultural world! It will only be stronger. Some will have the opportunity to express their disapproval, considering that we are not going far enough. Legislating should not strengthen a personal balance sheet but serve the people concerned in their daily lives. Today, I hear the satisfaction of an agricultural world that is finally seeing such measures implemented, after years of reflection without concrete results. Parliamentary debates have provided an opportunity to improve the entire text. The work at first reading provided the necessary clarifications to the various articles, in a spirit of trans-partisan dialogue. We have gained an overwhelming majority. Hundreds of deputies co-signed this bill before voting on it. I thank them for believing in this project. It was also that spirit that guided the negotiations with the Senate, without altering our objectives. The President of the Republic, the Government and the Minister of Agriculture have also taken measures of the urgency of action. They have been indispensable support to make our efforts a reality. This bill is not isolated, it forms a whole with other ambitious agricultural laws that are strong signs of our majority's commitment to agricultural issues. Of course, this is not the great land law expected, but it marks a new stage for our farmers. We have had – and I insist on this "we" of the collective – the ambition to propose a concrete and unprecedented scheme in Europe. On the one hand, the aim is to combat the concentration of hectares in the same hands by acting on the divestitures of shares of the companies which have control over them and, on the other hand, to succeed in installing new farmers and consolidating those who need them for their economic viability. We can be proud of the work done to counter the threats to French agricultural land. Perhaps the first is the vitality of our territories. Farms make them live. If we still have a lot of markets in our campaigns with a variety of products, it is thanks to the presence of the operators. However, their number depends directly on the land available. Half of the farmers are over 50 years old and their farms are on the eve of being handed over: we must act now! Another threat is the decline in the number of farms, which endangers our food sovereignty. Let us not forget that the excessive concentration of land also has an impact on biodiversity and natural balance. We have for too long underestimated the fragility of our soils. It must be noted that if they are abused, their agronomic value is inevitably lost and it takes decades to recover. The quality of our agricultural productions is the DNA of the farm France and is inseparable from the quality of our production sites. Agricultural land is the hard core. We must preserve this heritage in the service of an activity of general interest: agriculture. Today, through the passage of this bill, we take on our responsibilities and are already working towards more comprehensive land reform. Colleagues, this subject has been under reflection and, above all, has been pending for many years. A concrete solution is finally emerging and it is this legislature that will see it born. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Finally, I would like to warmly thank all my fellow Members and supporters who have understood that action must be taken without wasting more time.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1097.u96	The next speaker is the Minister for Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1097.u97	I am very pleased to be with you tonight, even at this late hour, for reading the Joint Joint Committee (JC) conclusions on this bill. I would of course like to thank Mr Jean-Bernard Sempastous very warmly and sincerely, who has defended this text with great energy and conviction. You have been able, Mr rapporteur, to interact with all the stakeholders and gain the confidence of professional agricultural organisations, elected representatives and colleagues on these technical and complex issues. Everyone here, but also in the Senate, has been able to measure your investment in this issue that is absolutely essential for the future of our agriculture model. This bill is a first operational, pragmatic step before we begin the construction of a major land law. Nevertheless, it remains ambitious and necessary. The debates have shown how much the subject of land is concerned with the intimacy of agricultural policy and our model. It may be a source of important divisions, but the intelligence with which the work was carried out has made it possible to find compromises beyond political boundaries. I would like to welcome the involvement of the members of the various political groups of the presidential majority and the opposition. I will mention Nicolas Turquois, Jean-Baptiste Moreau, Anne-Laurence Petel, Dominique Potier, Thierry Benoit, Jérôme Nury, Jean-Michel Clément, Luc Lamirault, Jean-Paul Dufrègne.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1097.u98	It's only beautiful people!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1097.u99	I thank them for their participation in the work on this text. The agricultural census published this Friday is a reminder of the urgent need to act on this issue. This text provides the State with new tools, new levers, it does not degrade any of them and, on the contrary, it makes it possible to limit the circumvention of corporate forms. It would therefore be acceptable not to vote for this text to leave the field open for these practices and to take the responsibility of watching the phenomenon accelerate without the means to act. The discussions were very close to the end – until the night before the Joint Joint Committee to be exact – but it was crucial for me to reach a consensus. With skill, you have been able to give priority to the general interest and obtain major inflections from the Senate on a project that has gone too far from your original position. You were able to agree with your colleagues in the Senate on an ambitious, pragmatic and meaningful text. In finding compromises, you have shown great responsibility and diplomacy, and I would like to thank you very sincerely. Your action is all the more remarkable since it is a central subject, on which we must conclude. I attached particular importance to this because dealing with land is one of the most important public policies in agriculture. It is to deal with the support of all agricultural activities, what makes our comparative advantage over many European countries – a land of quality and accessible – it is to deal with the future of our agricultural productions, the future of our agricultural model, but it is also and above all to deal with this major challenge that is the renewal of generations. On this last point, developments have increased over the last ten years, and while our agricultural world remains attractive to young people in France, the number of retirements requires us to increase the number of new facilities. That is what we have resolutely undertaken, and this text is one of the tools that must enable us to continue to foster the renewal of generations. This text offers us a new tool for land policy, all the more valuable since current developments must allow us to consolidate our agricultural model rather than let it go. The favourable framework that we now have is the result of the relevant and balanced agreement that you have achieved. The trigger threshold allowing the prefect to carry out control of transfers of shares will be between 1.5 and 3 times the regional average useful agricultural area (UAA). The conditions for direct exploitation which you have chosen seem to me to be appropriate, since they enable us to control the scope of the exemptions created. As far as compensatory measures are concerned, you have been very vigilant about the robustness of the scheme and have reintroduced the possibility of going through the SAFE (Land Development and Rural Establishment Companies) – which was probably one of the points that conditioned the credibility of the scheme. As for this famous paragraph 61, which has occupied us all until late in the night on the eve of the CMP, you have managed to find a compromise to avoid the risk of weakening the SAFE. Like you, I attached great importance to section 5, which was designed to equip us with the ability to refuse an authorization to operate. The compromise found seems interesting to me and allows for a strong strengthening of the structural control system. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] All of these are valuable tools for continuing to build the future of our agriculture. If this text is only a stone to the building, it was necessary to put it down. As I say again, the reform of agricultural land policies is probably tantamount to tackling one of the most structural policies in order to preserve this agricultural model, a model of human size and quality, but also to ensure this renewal of generations, which is the judge of peace of the quality and operationality of our public policies.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1097.u100	In the general debate, Mr Dominique Potier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1097.u101	An old peasant, a socialist activist in the territory of which I am a member today, said that when there were only two competitors in Europe to own the land, for the liberals there would still be one too many. It is in the face of this lure of gain and this temptation of grabbing that, for decades – or since the dawn of time – those who have chosen to share the land and resources are organizing themselves and establishing control measures that we observe everywhere on the planet that they ultimately contribute to prosperity – that of the soil, but also that of the societies. Sharing is the key to prosperity and, as in a parable, we can see the earth as all the resources we still have. On the issue of land, I made a commitment in 2013 based on the realities observed on the ground. In 2014, I took part in the drafting of the first bill on the subject: the future law for agriculture, food and forestry; in 2016, it was the Sapin 2 law; in 2018, an information mission. Finally, in 2019, I myself tabled a bill and organized numerous symposia and meetings bringing together hundreds of people and eighteen organizations. In this way, I have endeavoured not only to make the National Assembly aware of an issue that is still quite foreign to its debates, but also to bring together, in a very broad political arc, all those who could share our ideas and objectives. So you can imagine how bitter I felt when this proposal, construction and coalition work first met with the silence of the various agriculture ministers, and then when I found that the bill was being built by escaping the collective debate that I had been working on. Today, we must go beyond this feeling of desolation – that I am not the only one to experience – and look at things very simply by asking whether this text meets the challenges that have required our attention for eight years. No, this bill does not answer the question of foreign investment in France, nor that of French companies in the world's land grabbing, which contributes to spreading the violence and misery denounced by the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO). Does it respond to the grabbing by the use resulting from delegated agriculture in totally disproportionate forms? No, because she left aside, or spoke in too timid terms, the definition of what an agricultural asset is – in other words, what a peasant is. Finally, does it respond to the issue of the corporate phenomenon that we have denounced here for years by waging a real cultural battle and formulating several legislative proposals? Unfortunately not. This was the only ambition of this text but, beyond the postures, fictions and self-realizing assertions, our legal analyses, shared by many experts, show that it is far from meeting this expectation. I have already had the opportunity to say this: if the circumvention of the law by the corporate phenomenon was a crossing road, we are making it a highway! Indeed, the mechanism of compensation and negotiation, based on a system that goes from the test to the arbitrary, as the great jurists have said, would put all applicants at the same level, disregarding all republican rules and paving the way for all cases, all disputes. There is therefore a risk that the phenomenon we intended to denounce will be speeded up, which is what all experts and observers on the ground are saying. I will end by denouncing a form of hypocrisy. When I interviewed the members of the profession – I am thinking in particular of the most militants of them on the regulation of the land market and installation policies – they told me that the Government was reluctant to go further; But when I asked the government – you yourself, minister – I was told, each time, that the profession did not want to go any further. If it is impossible to unravel the true of the false, I know at least that we have missed something in terms of democracy, transparency and truth in our debates in this House. For my part, I will remain faithful to our values, faithful to a territory, faithful to a history – all these things without which those around me, those who have taken their part in the great history of agriculture would not be peasants today. With the SOC Group, I remain on the part of the part-owners, waiting for a great land law, and I denounce the hypocrisy of this text. It's worse than not doing, it's pretending to do it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1097.u102	Oh, there!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1097.u103	Mr Luc Lamirault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1097.u104	We come to the conclusion of the discussions on this text aimed at better regulating access to agricultural land through the membership structures. I welcome the work of our colleague Jean-Bernard Sempastous, who has been working on this subject for many months, as well as the trans-party cooperation between our two chambers, which has led to the conclusion of a Joint Joint Committee. Access to agricultural land is a key issue. For years, public policies have worked to keep the land at a reasonable price. As agriculture is constantly changing, these policies need to be adapted. In 50 years, the number of farms has been divided by five and their surface area has doubled. Two thirds of agricultural land is now being exploited by companies that have been free of control. The bill takes this new data into account in a proactive and fair manner. By adopting it, we reject the model of an agriculture of firms and fight against land grabbing. The text discussed today offers us the first tools to preserve human-sized farms, namely an excessive ownership control mechanism, as well as an adjustment of the tools for controlling access to land. This text aims to maintain sustainable and responsible management of our soils to preserve our traditional and family farming model. That is why we have defended the exclusion of family operations from this scheme and we welcome the fact that it has been accepted. We cannot stand still before the implacable figures that you all know. The number of farmers has been divided by four in 40 years; Almost a third of farmers are over 55 years old and half of them will retire in the next five years. This bill is an additional step to enable agriculture to retain its power of attraction and profitability. It helps to respond to the needs of French agriculture that is able to sustain the territories, enable farmers to live from their work and young people to settle, while promoting better spatial planning. Finally, the examination of this proposal showed that SAFER operated in a disparate manner in different departments and that consideration should be given to trying to harmonize their functioning. Mr Minister, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, I would like to thank you for your involvement in bringing the proposal to fruition with our colleague. I am pleased that the CMP has been concluded: this will allow for the rapid implementation of the text and will give us time to discuss a reform that is just as important for our agriculture: that of crop insurance, which will be debated in the National Assembly as soon as the beginning of the year. [[Applause on the banks of the Action ens, LaREM and Dem groups]] For all these reasons, the Action Together group will vote on the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1097.u105	Mr Thierry Benoit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1097.u106	The UDI and independent group will also vote on this bill to ensure the regulation of access to agricultural land through the membership structures. At the same time, I share most of the conclusions of our colleague Dominique Potier, who has been working on land for ten years: it will not prevent foreign investment or land grabbing, even though it reflects a desire to fight land control. It is still a shame to come to this situation. I am a Member of Parliament for Brittany, a farming region, and no later than this afternoon a merchant of goods who deals with agricultural land, told me that a beautiful farm in my constituency had found a buyer of about fifty years old. He is not at all part of the agricultural sector, even if he has agricultural diplomas since he was engaged in the profession of technical-commercial but he has the necessary amount – 1.4 million euros – to buy this dairy farm to make it a cereal farm. If I tell you this, Minister, we have a challenge to face – I know you are aware of this, and the rapporteur as well – : the installation, the transmission, the succession must be done in an acceptable way in the field of breeding. Fifteen days ago, I relayed to you an inquiry by the president of our regional chamber of agriculture, André Sergent, who was sounding an alarm at the fact that the farms were disappearing due to the lack of buyers. The very high cost of access to land and the resumption of exploitation naturally plays a role, but the primary reason, let's say, is that being a farmer in France today is a lot of work, all year round, seven days a week, twenty-four hours a day. Despite all our efforts, despite the law for the balance of trade relations in the agricultural and food sector and a healthy, sustainable and accessible diet (EGALIM) and the law to protect farmers' remuneration, the issue of value-sharing remains an issue. That is why the question of land matters to us. I am convinced that this proposal can provide a start, even if it does not meet the challenges. One cannot speak of agriculture without mentioning the EUR 9 billion donated to French agriculture under the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP). As long as it takes precedence over surfaces, we can only support the race for enlargement. I think in my personal capacity – and I don't think I'm the only one anymore – that we need to be able to support human-sized farms, as you said in your opening remarks, Minister. Of course, French farms are still human-sized, compared to what is seen in America, particularly in Brazil or Argentina. But if European agricultural policy continues to take precedence over the surface, without a ceiling, and does not really show the desire for a more redistributive distribution in favour of small farms, I am not sure that the challenge of installation and transmission, including the transmission of agricultural land, will be met. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group. – The rapporteur also applauds]] I am convinced that you need to remain at the head of the Ministry of Agriculture for another five years. That's what I wish you, because you're a good minister. About a month ago, I noticed you've been on duty for a year, four months and 14 days. You need more time to act for the good of our farmers.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1097.u107	Mr Jean-Michel Clément has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1097.u108	Only 389000: this is the number of farms in France according to the provisional results of the decennial census organized by your ministry. Between 2010 and 2020, 100,000 farms disappeared, or more than 20% of them, particularly as a result of many retirements from unreplaced farmers. If we add to this that the area dedicated to agriculture has, however, remained stable over this period, it must be noted that the expansion of farms continues and, with it, the financialization of agriculture. Since the first laws of agricultural orientation, the installation has always been one of the primary objectives, alongside the necessary modernization of farms. In the face of the continued reduction in the number of operators, the latest guidance legislation has made the facility a priority. The regulatory instruments introduced in 1960, control of cumulations, which became control of structures, and SAFER are still present in our legal and economic order. Have they had the efficiency desired by successive legislators? Apparently not. Have they been given the means to act to achieve these objectives? Probably not. There is a growing gap between speech and action, and it is not this bill that will deny it. Where are we? The installation has become too expensive for many young farmers, not necessarily because their remuneration is too low, but often because the cost of land is prohibitive, without common measure with its only economic value. In this context, SAFER, which has been operating for a long time without public funding and to whom some blame its commercial nature – but how can it be blamed? What can the control of structures do in the face of property rights or the societal phenomenon that has invaded agriculture? The obsolescence of the intervention tools imagined yesterday is before us, and it is not your bill that will rehabilitate them. There was, however, a consensus among all the actors involved. Agricultural unions, associations of elected representatives, environmental NGOs, all agreed to call for more regulation in a declaration adopted in November 2019 at the National Assembly, following a colloquium that should have been a date. They called for an ambitious land law. Only the Ministry of Agriculture and Food lacked the call for this ambition. Making land accessible again to those who work there required the implementation of an ambitious reform for access to agricultural land. This is not the choice made with this bill, which leaves aside essential questions, such as delegated agricultural work, in order to try to avoid the most urgent: the regulation of the membership structures, become the horse of Troy of all the circumventions of the law. In fact, the membership format allows us to escape all constraints. The objective of your text is "to put an end to a blind corner of regulation that upsets the French agricultural landscape. The result, however, may not be up to ambition. Let us say right from the outset, the text suffered from shortcomings and shortcomings, together with new compromises in the Senate, and accommodation in the Joint Joint Committee. We are coming to the end of the legislative procedure, and the text is now open to those who wish to circumvent the new obligations, while at the same time maintaining unequal treatment between member farms and individual farms, which are subject to structural control at a lower threshold. Moreover, how can we ensure that all transactions on social securities are made, when we know the diversity of the actors who can intervene in these transactions, accountants, management centres, notaries, lawyers, real estate agencies, specialized or not, not to mention the interested parties themselves? Who will check the content of all these transactions? SAFER, who will pass on to the prefect, whose services, for lack of resources, are already struggling to enforce the current regulations? It will be so easy to anticipate or complicate the legal montages that only the bewildered will be reminded to order. I also regret that the bill lacks effectiveness in controlling property transfers through holding companies located abroad. You plan to exempt all donations from this new device. How can we ensure that this provision will not lead to circumventions, as was the case when all donations of land were outside the pre-emption scope of SAFE? Similarly, I fear that regional prefects are neither in capacity nor even inclined to withdraw the administrative authorisation granted to an operation when they find that the operators have failed to comply with their commitments. Moreover, will they simply be able to follow up on them?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1097.u109	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1097.u110	[[Mr. Dominique Potier applauds]] With your bill, you wanted to take a small step towards safeguarding the French model of family farming, but, because you create the conditions for a significant circumvention of these new obligations, you risk forcing small farms, without being able to curb land grabbing by large structures. That is why the Libertés et Territoires Group will abstain mainly on this bill and that, for my part, I will vote against it, without ambiguity or hesitation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1097.u111	Mr Michel Larive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1097.u112	A large land law was expected, as access to agricultural land was difficult and their burden was common. There is general agreement on the need to protect agricultural land and to combat soil artificialization. Unfortunately, this text does not meet the ambitions I have just mentioned. For a great land law, we will therefore have to wait, unfortunately. The only merit of this bill is to exist and to highlight the vital and nourishing problem of agricultural land. It is 600,000 hectares that change operators each year and 600,000 that are artificialized per year. In ten years, half of the useful agricultural area will change hands, or 14 million hectares. That is why it is so damaging to wait again, especially as the number of farmers continues to decline. The reduction in the number of farms leads to the concentration of agricultural land. In 1988, there were 1 million farms, with an average area of less than 30 hectares. In 2016, there is a trend towards 400,000 farms with an average area of more than 60 hectares. In 30 years, more than half of the farms have disappeared and the size of the surviving farms has more than doubled! The sector is experiencing a multiplication of complex corporate arrangements: SCEA (civil farm companies), land portages, GFA (agricultural land groups), SCI (civil property companies), commercial companies, ETA (agricultural works companies), SARL (limited liability companies), GAEC (joint farm grouping), etc. Thus, the number and importance of these companies among agricultural holdings has only increased. Today, 50% of farms are registered in this form, i.e. two thirds of the agricultural area. This growing corporate market is not transparent and often conceals an evolution of farms, which compete with individual structures. This market can endanger the resilient peasant model in the face of climate change, a model that France is unsubstantiated in defending and promoting. [[Mr. Dominique Potier applauds]] Several points in this text leave us puzzled. First, it validates the possibility for farms to exceed a "significant" expansion threshold, a threshold that you initially described as excessive. It therefore contravenes the common objective of facilitating the establishment of new farmers. You thus miss the objective of correcting the inequality of treatment with other modes of access to agricultural land. They are subject to a standard licensing threshold and not to this much higher threshold, which is described as excessive. Those who wish to expand their agricultural land holdings excessively will therefore have every interest in continuing to go through the membership process.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1097.u113	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1097.u114	Finally, the Act does not distinguish between companies that operate agricultural land and those that own land without directly exploiting it. In 2010, 10 per cent of field crops were already engaged in agricultural work. Through these ETAs, all agricultural work can be delegated to claimants who impose more than degraded working conditions on registered or unregistered workers. It is also a way of bypassing regulation through rent and rural leases, which are still protective, so to carry out an effective grabbing of agricultural land. In order to promote new facilities, especially young people, these practices should have been strictly controlled – and we will have to do so in the future. Unfortunately, and without much surprise, your bill makes only marginal changes that will not stop the trend towards land concentration. The explanatory memorandum does, however, set out the objectives, but the means of achieving them will be sought for a long time in the devices you propose. That is why we will not vote on the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1097.u115	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1097.u116	Agricultural land is not a consumer good like any other. They are not a means, for actors who do not exploit them, to amass a pecule or to create large urban projects, but our wealth, which allows to feed men and women forever. It is through the cultivation of the earth that the human being has moved from hunter-gatherer status to sedentary status. This is part of our history; it remains the best way to produce food and ensure food security. While founding the harmony of French landscapes, it contributes to the fight against the effects of global warming. Our soils are precious: we must protect them. That is why we cannot allow our food sovereignty to become a pawn on the chessboard of capital collectors. The freedom to undertake reaches its limits when it threatens to encroach on common sense, on the common. While France was the first country to adopt the SAFE model, in the 1960s the abuses of the corporate phenomenon led to the dislocation of the latter and prevented them from exercising effective control. However, some had tried to correct the shot. The Sapin 2 law of 9 December 2016 already provided for the extension of the right of preemption of SAFE to partial transfers of shares and shares. The Constitutional Council went through this: the main provisions of the text were censored. The law of 20 March 2017 on the fight against the grabbing of agricultural land, due to our colleague Dominique Potier, was intended to give the FASER the possibility to use their right of preemption in case of partial transfer of shares or shares of a company whose main object was agricultural property. Again, the Constitutional Council played the fosseurs, invoking an infringement of the freedom to undertake. No doubt the fear of a new censorship led to the drafting of this text, which represents a watered-down advance, not a frank development. I regret that the working group did not lead to the consensus and courageous text that we wish; But beyond regret, while waiting better, we must act. Land grabbing is an undeniable problem. Things have accelerated; acquisitions are increasingly made by foreign investors or without any connection to the agricultural world. The earth becomes a means of speculation. I have already cited the case of this Chinese company which, in 2017, acquired 900 hectares of agricultural land in Allier, after having bought 1700 hectares the previous year in Indre. It's huge. There must be real political will to counter these aggressive and harmful actions. The bill is welcome, as it will allow the SAFER to initiate a mechanism to control the acquisition of agricultural land. At first reading, during our debates or by way of amendment, we had raised some problems. They have not been resolved: it is a pity. The significant enlargement threshold referred to in Article 1er is not necessarily a good solution, as this will result in an uneven procedure for prior authorisation. The question of working in such a way is not addressed, whereas this phenomenon, which is growing rapidly, is beyond control. The establishment of young farmers will not be favoured, even though they are the future of the sector. On all these points, our amendments have been rejected. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group, as well as on some benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] However, despite these shortcomings, because it is a step forward, the GDR Group will vote in favour of this text, the implementation of which will require important means. We will support him in the expectation of the great law which, for our common good, will protect the earth from predators, and which neither this majority nor the previous one will have been able to complete.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1097.u117	Good!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1097.u118	Thank you, Jean-Paul!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1097.u119	Mr Patrice Perrot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1097.u120	EGALIM Act of 30 October 2018. Act of 20 May 2019 for the protection of land for agricultural activities and marine crops in the coastal zone. Act of 10 June 2020 on the transparency of information on agricultural and food products. Law of 14 December 2020 on the conditions for the placing on the market of certain plant protection products in the event of a health hazard for sugar beet. Act of 22 August 2021 on combating climate change and strengthening resilience to its effects, known as climate and resilience. Law EGALIM 2 of 18 October 2021. Act of 30 November 2021 to combat animal abuse. Through this inventory at La Prévert, I recalled all the texts voted during this quinquennium by the presidential majority to save our agricultural model and to accompany farmers, who ensure the food sovereignty of France. She is now submitting this proposal for a law on emergency measures to ensure the regulation of access to agricultural land through membership structures. Accompanied by discussions as rich as they were demanding, the parliamentary shuttle resulted, thanks to the work of the Joint Joint Committee – in which I participated – in a text not only concluding, but also and above all welcomed by all trade unions in the profession. Farmers have made no mistake: this text will help to preserve agricultural land, which guarantees our model, the preservation of the environment, the vitality of the territories and our rural jobs. These are not vain words. Excessive concentration of farms and land grabbing undermine our agricultural model; our environment, through the development of monoculture and the simplification of cropping routes – which helps to impoverish soil and destabilize biodiversity; the vitality of rural areas and jobs, through the standardization of production, which leads to the disappearance of local production and the very occupation of farmers, the excessive concentration of land leading to production systems with lower value added per hectare, and poor in employment; Finally, our food sovereignty, since the diversity of agricultural production is a condition for France's food independence. But agricultural land – as we have pointed out many times – is under stress. One third of farmers will retire by 2023, which implies both a risk of abandonment of agricultural land and a high volume of transactions on the rural land market. The figures are striking: in 40 years, the number of farmers has been divided by four; nearly a third of farmers were over 55 years old in 2016 and half will retire before 2026; In 2013, France had nearly 452,000 farms, five times less than in 1955, and their average area doubled between 1988 and 2013. Each year, about 25,000 farm managers leave the profession, giving an average of 55 hectares. At the same time, the impermeability of land continues at an unbridled pace, while competition over land uses increases pressure on agricultural areas, whose prices have increased by 35% in ten years – which calls into question the possibility of setting up new farmers. I would like to take this opportunity to welcome once again the major action taken by the SAFRS, thanks in particular to their right of preemption. However, as this is being circumvented by the progression of the corporate forms of exploitation, we had to act and update our legislative framework. As a result of the joint committee's work, the draft law is a balanced text: it enshrines the existence of an administrative authorization procedure for the transfer of social securities relating to companies which own or operate agricultural land, while taking into account the realities of the land and the specificities of certain territories. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and Dem groups. – The rapporteur also applauds]] That is why, in particular for my department of Nièvre, I wish on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party that it be widely adopted by the House. We have all said that much remains to be done, but this text is a first step. I therefore welcome the work of Jean-Bernard Sempastous and look forward to my modest contribution.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1097.u121	On the whole of the bill, I have a request for a public vote before the Socialist and Related Group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr Jérôme Nury has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1097.u122	This is the outcome of a bill that, both in substance and in form, is the very example of what we should have done for five years. Designed, negotiated, amended and voted in a trans-partisan manner, this text is the product of a synthesis between the political currents of the Chamber, between the Assembly and the Senate, between Parliament and agricultural professional organizations, in short of a co-construction of the law in a spirit of cooperation that should have guided our action and that of the majority, when examining each of the texts on the agenda since 2017. That was far from the case. If, this time, we have achieved such a success, it is above all thanks to the will of the main players. With patience, humility and stubbornness, the rapporteur was able to convince a number of us to work with him, without sectarianism, until consensus was reached. The minister left Parliament with the task of legislating, focusing on advising the minister and tactfully addressing the disruptive measures. I would add that, for all those who are interested in agriculture, this text responds to an increasingly important need: it was time to regulate and regulate one of the three modes of accession to agricultural land, the use of which, hitherto marginal, has developed in a few years. The deviant phenomenon of the corporate market is not new; However, its accounting since 2016 has allowed us to study its practices. For example, 20% of the divestments notified to SAFER in northern France – which, for example, in Normandy and for 2019, represents more than 6700 hectares – have been opacity-free to a few beneficiaries, at least half of whom operate more than 240 hectares, while at the same time farmers are trying in vain to settle, or to develop farms of a much smaller size. The freedom to undertake, yes, but with equal weapons: this was not the case so far because of these transfers of shares, which some were willing to acquire for exorbitant sums. We must therefore welcome the progress of this text rather than lament that it is not the Great Evening of agricultural land, as those who have never had the courage to start it. The drafting resulting from the Joint Joint Committee's work has first of all the merit of determining the objectives of the scheme, which we can all only share: to encourage the establishment of farmers, especially young people, the consolidation of farms, and the renewal of generations, by combating excessive concentration by companies. The initiation of the authorisation process also seems clear and precise: it is based on the prefect of the region which sets the threshold, in number of hectares, from which the prefect of the department authorizes or does not authorize the takeover of the company. By relying on the regional prefect's calculation and the authorization on the prefect of the department, whose role is strengthened, the text allows a territorialised approach, guaranteeing pragmatism and taking into account the specificities and realities of the field. It should also be noted that the exemption from authorisation for intra-family transfers up to and including the fourth degree, which we insisted on. It will preserve the French family model, in which generations in the countryside pass on techniques, passions and land. The text is also balanced with regard to the role of the SAFE, which may be entrusted with the search and implementation of compensatory measures if the parties so agree, but which cannot intervene, for a period of one year, on the property of the companies whose application they have examined for authorisation. We have seen it well throughout the examination of the text and during the hearings, which have aroused questions and contradictions on the part of the profession: the question of agricultural land always drives the passion of farmers. At a time when the 2020 agricultural census tells us that France has lost 100,000 farms in ten years, while maintaining an identical national cultivated agricultural area – which translates into an extension of 25% of the average farm area – it is more important than ever to preserve access to land, especially for young people. Land tenure is the primary work tool of farmers. While generation renewal is a major concern – according to the last agricultural census, two thirds of farmers are over 50 years old – it is becoming the major element of successful transmission. In a context where the attractiveness of the farmer's profession is undermined by problems of remuneration and charges, access to land at adapted prices also becomes a key parameter for those who aspire to settle. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] The present bill is therefore a modest but interesting step forward in the face of the immense challenges facing us and the peasants.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1097.u123	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1097.u124	Mr. Nicolas Turquois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1097.u125	I believe that there are very many of us on these benches who want a diversified and human-sized agriculture. However, there are fewer and fewer farmers and more and more very large agricultural structures whose model is far removed from this expectation. Several mechanisms are at work: lack of interest of a number of young people in a trade perceived as difficult, low profitability of the activity or difficulty of access to water to secure production. But if there is a subject to be put above the pile to allow more facilities in agriculture, it is that of access to land. Without land, no project can emerge: sometimes it doesn't take a lot, but it still needs a lot. The competition between farmers for access to the land is a constant, surely since man is man. It took on a completely different dimension with the mechanization of agriculture after the Second World War. The greater the financial means, the greater the mechanical means, and the greater the area cultivated by a single man. The public authorities and the agricultural profession were well aware of this by establishing the control of structures and the establishment of SAFER in the early 1960s. Comparing France's situation with that of its European neighbours in terms of land concentration until the early 2000s, we can see how effective this model has been. He's not. In Vienna, to mention only this department where I myself am a farmer, there are now farms of 800, 1000 and perhaps even 2000 hectares: it becomes impossible to obtain objectified data. We are now in a kind of Far West of land grabbing, which is always done to the detriment of the smallest – or the one who wants to settle – and which is, moreover, almost always synonymous with a little diversified grain farming. There are many reasons for this development. One can refer to the status of rent or work in a way, but it is a major element that has contributed particularly to this evolution: the fact of membership. The emergence of GAECs in the 1970s, followed by EARLs (limited-liability farms) and SCEAs, completely changed the agricultural landscape. It has been a real step forward in separating personal property from professional property, in better protecting farmers, especially in the event of financial difficulties, and in facilitating intergenerational transmission. But while the formation of agricultural companies has had a positive effect, it has nevertheless allowed some to leniently free themselves from the rules of control of structures, which are more adapted to the control of natural persons. There is a breach of total equality between natural persons and assignees of social security. I therefore enthusiastically welcome the bill advocated by our colleague Sempastous, which aims to control the divestiture of shares of companies holding or operating agricultural land beyond an excessive threshold. This parliamentary initiative will first bring transparency and light back where the darkness of some legal agencies was doing its job.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1097.u126	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1097.u127	In order to ensure the effectiveness of the measure, the proposed legislation gives the SAFER a major role by entrusting them with the investigation of the cases. I am not unaware of some of the criticisms of these companies, but, by definition, almost all farmers have one day been denied by a SAFE, and therefore have been disappointed. For me, this is proof of the effectiveness of their action. Today, SAFER is the only public policy instrument to have the skills and the means to carry out quality education. The bill contains a new mechanism to make land-use projects conditional on the introduction of compensatory measures, which I believe is promising. Accepting an expansion there, by releasing land here to install one young person or consolidate another's farm, makes sense. Some object to the interest of this mechanism. I believe, given the urgency, that we have a duty to try. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group as well as on several benches of the LaREM group. – The rapporteur also applauds]] Finally, I would like to highlight the positive exchange that this text has given rise to with senators. In the original version of the Assembly, the notion of control on all floors was blatant, but senators were right to point out that, in many situations, transfers are normally made, in the spirit of the law; It would be unfair to penalize them. The text therefore provides for trust first, then transparency – with the support of the SAFE in the preparation of the files – and finally evaluation in three years, to correct the shooting as soon as possible if necessary. The Group of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats are pleased with these three quality ingredients, which will therefore vote for the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1097.u128	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1097.u129	I now call the text of the Joint Joint Committee. In accordance with Rule 113(3) of the Rules of Procedure, I shall first call on the House to take a decision on the amendments before me. Amendments Nos 1, 2, 3 and 4 of the Government are defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1097.u130	I put the whole bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1097.u131	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 42 Number of votes cast 42 Absolute majority 22 For adoption 38 Against 4
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1097.u132	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1097.u133	I would like to thank the rapporteur, the administrators and all the parliamentarians who have been involved in the text. Why hasn't a great land law been created yet? First of all because, as everyone knows, since I came to head of the ministry a little less than two years ago, I have had the honour of meeting before you many times to deal with the very important issues – beet, the so-called EGALIM law, agricultural pensions dear to President Chassaigne or, as today, land and corporate shares – and the parliamentary agenda has been incredibly shaken by the health crisis. It is also because, as always in life, one must know how to progress in stages. But I was the first to recognize – the majority also acknowledged – that this is how we move forward on the land side. I dare to imagine, MP Potier, that your words have exceeded your mind.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1097.u134	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1097.u135	As for Messrs. Larive and Clément, they explain to us that the bill would not be relevant because it could be derogated from by member control. We measure the depth of reasoning! Today, there is no member control and the one who controls structures can already pass into member control if he wishes. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] On the contrary, I would really like to pay tribute to the wisdom and pragmatism of the Communist Group, faithful to itself in this House, and to the words of Mr Dufrègne. Finally, I would like to remind you that a very important document, the agricultural census, was published a few days ago. It teaches us that the agricultural sector remains attractive – the share of under 40s among farmers has not decreased –...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1097.u136	The important thing is to believe it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1097.u137	[[Vif applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] ... but that a greater renewal of generations still needs to be ensured. I am proud, in this regard, to belong to a presidential majority that has improved the living conditions of farmers with paternity leave and retirement, which is fighting for wages and land, and which acts every day to increase the attractiveness of the professions. For the first time in years, the number of learners is increasing in agricultural education. Let us continue in this direction, with great determination.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-13-O1097.u138	Next meeting at 3 p.m.: Questions to the Government; Following the discussion of the bill on differentiation, decentralization, deconcentration and various measures to simplify local public action. The meeting is adjourned.
