ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u1	The next item is the debate on France's policies in the Sahel. The Conference of Presidents decided to organize this debate in two parts: first we will hear the speakers of the groups and then the Government. We will then proceed to a sequence of questions and answers. Mr Thomas Gassilloud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u2	We are meeting today to discuss France's strategy in the Sahel. Today, this area of the world is facing enormous challenges, which primarily affect civilian populations: in 2020, 2,400 civilian victims and 2 million internally displaced persons were identified. For eight years, France has been actively and courageously engaged in this area, conducting a difficult fight, of which we can be proud. After the good debate conducted by our fellow senators and in addition to the work carried out in our committees, it seems to us to be legitimate, useful and necessary to debate in this Chamber the strategy of France in the Sahel. For the sake of efficiency, we wanted to wait for the conclusions of the N'Djamena summit to lead this democratic exercise. This debate is first and foremost the one that we owe to the men and women of our armies. It must stand, because the stakes are immense, just like the costs paid by the nation: the human cost, with the price of blood paid by our armies; the financial cost, with an investment for the nation, of the order of 1 billion euros each year. Therefore, our task of monitoring and evaluating public policies requires this debate which, held here, will allow everyone to go beyond the specific areas of competence of the committees in order to move towards a comprehensive approach to the situation. On the other hand, while the strength of our Constitution lies in the very great autonomy conferred on the Head of State with regard to the use of armed force, which is an undeniable strategic asset for our country, we believe that this only reinforces the requirement of a Parliament that is very involved in monitoring operations. Finally, our fellow citizens are asking us about the meaning of our strategy in the Sahel. As representatives of the people, it is our duty to provide them with answers and we thank you, the Minister of Armed Forces, the Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs, for your participation in this debate. Let me begin with a brief reminder of the situation. In January 2012, a new rebellion broke out in northern Mali and, for the first time, nomads joined the Salafist movement Ansar Dine and other Islamist movements. A year later, with the threat approaching the south of the capital, the Malian authorities called on France to help. President François Hollande agrees to intervene and our armies deploy, in record time, an operation as bold as it is overwhelming: Operation Serval. Two years later, in June 2015, the Algiers agreements, signed between the Malian State and armed groups, set out a political road map for Mali providing for regionalization, integration, disarmament and reconciliation. The year 2015, marked by the support of the United Nations Multidimensional Integrated Stabilization Mission in Mali – MINUSMA – and the signing of the agreements, could have offered a first exit, which we may have missed. Mr. Minister, I would be interested in your opinion now that we have a step back. Instead, France chooses to extend its system to the entire Sahel with Operation Barkhane, and is focusing on the rise of the G5 Sahel. At the same time, there is a profusion of initiatives to strengthen local state structures in the areas of security development: the Sahel Alliance, the Partnership for Security and Stability at Sahel – P3S – not to mention the European Union's Common Security and Defence Policy – CSDP – missions, the European Union training mission in Mali – EUTM – and the European Union's civilian mission in support of Mali's internal security forces – EUCAP – Sahel Mali. This profusion may affect the readability and coherence of the action taken. On the other hand, structural reforms will run counter to the weakness of the local state apparatus and, at times, to the equally fragile local political will. Along with the erosion of the follow-up to the peace and reconciliation agreement, we are witnessing an extension of the conflict towards the centre, which is taking on a more insurrectional look and whose motivations are much more diverse. In 2017, a new impetus was given by the President of the Republic, Emmanuel Macron, emphasizing development as part of the "3D" approach – defence, diplomacy and development. Yet, at the end of 2019, the situation is not good: successive defeats of the local armed forces; propagation of anti-French discourse, especially by local politicians who find the ideal culprit to conceal their own failings; Then, on 25 November, tragic helicopter accident, which cost the lives of thirteen of our brave soldiers. We had to take the initiative again. This was the case at the beginning of 2020, under the courageous leadership of the President of the Republic at the Pau summit: the request for aid to France was thus reaffirmed by the Sahelian Heads of State; a priority target, the Islamic State in the Greater Sahara – EIGS – and an area of action, the three-border zone, were arrested. On the occasion of the summit, a comprehensive and better coordinated strategy was also defined, bringing together all initiatives under one umbrella, the Sahel coalition. At the military level, the reinforcement of 600 troops has significantly increased Barkhane's strike force and significantly reduced the capabilities of an enemy who, at the end of 2019, was emboldened by his victories. Without this military effort, the elections would probably have been much more complicated, if not impossible, to organize in Niger and Burkina Faso. Since the Pau summit, serious attacks have been carried out on terrorist armed groups. At the same time, the Sahelian armies strengthened, regained confidence and became more structured around the joint force of the G5 Sahel, reinvigorated by its commander, General Namata Gazama. While efforts have been made, the governance and development record remains too small, despite a very broad international consensus, particularly at European level. In the summer of 2020, the deterioration of the political climate in Bamako led to demonstrations of the population, the overthrow of power by military personnel and the installation of new transitional political authorities. They undertook to follow the democratic road map of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) with a view to holding free elections in the spring of 2022. Moreover, our European allies, who have been present with us since the beginning of Operation Barkhane, have crossed a level in their commitment, deploying the Takuba task force. Minister, we commend your continued efforts in this regard. The awareness is there. The path of Europeanisation is positive, but we need to grasp it realistically: European reinforcements, precious but fragile, will need to be accompanied on a long-term basis in order to produce decisive effects. While the results have been real since the Pau summit, the security situation at the regional level remains a concern. Fifteen days ago, at the N'Djamena summit, significant progress, which we welcome, was made: the deployment of a Chadian battalion of more than 1,000 troops to the joint G5 Sahel force, which is in line with the Sahelation of operations; alignment of political will with a view to the neutralization of jihadist leaders, in particular Iyad Ag Ghali and Amadou Koufa; Above all, a call for the civilian component to return from the State and public services as part of an inter-ministerial strategy, led by the Heads of State themselves. Thus, the "staying differently", which we proposed last December, is outlined. Indeed, the strategic margin of manoeuvre that we have hard-earned must now be used skillfully. That is why we propose to open a third act, which must be first and foremost that of appropriation by the Sahelians, supported by a more united Europe. We imagine the strategy of "remaining differently" as based on responsibility, flexibility and discretion. Responsibility first, because national reconciliation, development and governance reforms are the sine qua non for a lasting crisis resolution, all of which are in the hands of the Sahelians themselves. Today, social and economic conditions, degradation and even lack of State relations provide the enemy with an unlimited pool of recruits. The use of force is useful, but it only gives time to implement political solutions. Peace will be won only when the model of society proposed by the local states is more attractive than that of the jihadists. However, to avoid interference, we can only offer the Sahelian authorities a clear and demanding contractual framework, which would, for example, make our security and financial assistance conditional on progress in governance. Second, the French and European military presence in the Sahel must evolve to last. The challenge now is to calibrate our forces at the right level, necessary to prevent the re-release of an attack similar to that of 2013, to deal with high-value-added targets and to prevent the establishment of jihadist refuge areas. It is now time to move towards a military arrangement that may include fewer large bases, but in the long run is built around forces that would act in support of the Sahelian forces. To make it simple: less Barkhane, more Sabre and Takuba. Discretion finally, because it is one of the great laws of history: in the eyes of a people, any liberating foreign force becomes, after a few years, an occupying force. This is all the more true in times of social networks and organised misinformation. It is up to us to find a fair position that allows us to defend our interests and assume our responsibilities by putting our African allies at the forefront. That is how we will achieve our goals as quickly as possible. So, Madam Minister, can you give us some insight into the European countries that have committed themselves to integrating Takuba, today or in the future? What is the status of the deployment of the African Union force? Mr Minister, the question of Northern Mali remains, in part, in the hands of Algeria. How do you judge the involvement of this country? How will the "civil burst", announced at the summit of N'Djamena, materialize? Finally, can you both, at your level, share with us your road map creating, in the coming weeks, the Sahel coalition in Brussels? This is the vision of the strategy in the Sahel which the Group of the European People's Party wishes to defend. Only the Sahelians have the solution, but the Sahelians alone will not succeed. Our honour and our duty command to be with them, by showing mutual frankness. Now is the time to win peace. This victory requires a work of political lucidity, and it is Parliament's duty to contribute to it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u3	Mr Yannick Favennec-Becot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u4	Madam Minister, Minister, Madam Chair of the Commission, dear Françoise, whose commitment to the leadership of our commission – of which I am pleased to be a member – we, ladies and gentlemen, can be proud of our armed forces: they are the honour of our country. Three years ago, I went to the Sahel with a delegation from the Defence Committee, led by Jean-Jacques Bridey. We were able to meet these women and men engaged in the service of peace in the world; we have been able to share a moment of life with this great family, united and totally devoted to its mission; We have been able to measure the determination of our troops and their ardent desire to continue the fight, despite the loss of several of their comrades, for whom I would like, at this moment, to have an emotional thought obviously marked by gratitude – I also do not forget their families. In parallel with the visit of two French military bases – one in Niamey and the other in Gao – we met the head of the Malian forces in Gao and our parliamentary counterparts in Niamey. Our goal was to better understand the origins of the crisis in the Sahel and its resolution factors. Ladies and gentlemen, I would have liked this task carried out by defence commissioners to lead to a debate in our Chamber, but this has not been the case. Since the engagement of our troops in Mali in 2013, this is only the second time that we have discussed French military engagement in the Sahel: twice in eight years, it is too little in terms of the stakes. Operation Serval launched in Mali to halt the progress of the jihadists, which later became Operation Barkhane, led to a strong and long-term French military mobilization in this region of the world. Even if tactical successes are to be welcomed, they have failed to put an end to the origins of evil. Unfortunately, the security situation on the spot has deteriorated, forcing France to register its presence in the Sahel for a long time and to extend its scope of action to a vast territory such as Europe. Madam Minister, alone, we can't do anything; Together, with our European friends, anything can become possible. As we know, France does not have the political, military and financial means to successfully assume such an operation alone in such a vast area. The cross-border nature of the terrorist threat, particularly linked to the desert nature of the Sahelian zone, requires joint action with our European and African partners, and our approach must be regional. Operation Barkhane, which is based on a logic of partnership with the main countries of the Sahelo-Saharan band in order to promote the ownership by the G5 Sahel partner countries of the fight against terrorist armed groups in the region, is much more complex than expected. While some have called for the withdrawal of French troops into the region, the IDU and independent group considers that a pure and simple departure would be unreasonable and dangerous for peace. During the G5 Sahel, which took place a few weeks ago, the President of the Republic renounced the immediate reduction of French military personnel in the Sahel; We look forward to it. However, we note that he has nevertheless drawn the contours of an exit strategy, thanks to the arrival of European reinforcements. It is indeed essential that the European Union invests more and better with our French troops. Takuba, the European task force launched last year to enable Operation Barkhane to evolve, must rise in power. But we must not believe that the solution in the Sahel is only military: if the successes of our armies are real, the political weakness of the powers in some Sahelian states and the shortcomings in local administration, education, health, justice, sometimes extreme, are the best allies of the jihadists. That is why we must step up our efforts to promote the development of these countries, and encourage and support more structural projects. We must strengthen our civil action and redouble our efforts to help them re-create local public services. [[Philippe Michel-Kleisbauer applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to conclude by calling for vigilance: we must bear in mind that other conflicts can mobilise us at any time. In this perspective, while the military programming law 2019-2025 is a positive signal, its pace, with a postponement of most of the effort at the end of the period, must be accelerated as quickly as possible. It is urgent to give our armies the means to be ready and our country not to have a war of delay.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u5	Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u6	Five minutes of speaking time for the unsuspecting opposition, deeply committed to politics in the Sahel: I can do nothing but go fast, and to the essentials. First of all, I would like to say that, whatever the intensity of our possible disagreements, nothing prevents the Insoumis from having an emotional and respectful thought for the combatants who, on the spot, in the name of France, carry out the orders we give them, sometimes at the cost of their lives. So let's talk about France's policy in the Sahel – I now have less than five minutes left to do so. We are talking about it, it is a rare enough fact to be stressed: of course, we will not go so far as to vote, but at last we call it a debate. Only one vote took place eight years ago when you were Minister of Defence, Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs. Since then, many things have changed, but it was apparently a vote for eternity! We voted once: it says, the war continues. This is not our opinion: when will we vote seriously, a second time, to take into account all the elements we have before us? Initially, we had Operation Serval; It has become Barkhane, and now extends beyond Mali to Burkina Faso, Chad, Niger and Mauritania. We have never discussed this extension, which has many consequences, since we are linked to each of the countries I have just mentioned by military agreements – so much so that, in one way or another, a domino effect is engaged. Wherever war spreads, France will be there and we will be bound by the regimes that will lead it in each of these countries. The military pact is also worth a political solidarity pact: we have seen it in Mali, where an ill-elected president is overthrown by a series of popular demonstrations followed by a coup d'état, from a single barracks – that is, what the strength of this regime was. Since then, there has been a government that is not elected by anyone, but of which we are the ally, and with whom we wage war. There are voices to include other countries in the coalition: yesterday, in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I heard the representative of the Dem Group ask for Senegal to be included; Fortunately, the minister replied that he was against this dilution. We are also firmly opposed to it. Legitimate governments or not, we find ourselves caught up in an Algiers agreement that the minister says is excellent. The minister has the right to think so, but it appears, if my information is good, that neither the representatives of the opposition in Mali nor the de facto government approve of its content; Some see it as a partition of the country. In essence, it is not our problem, to us French: if they think so, they will have the last word because, I remind you, Mali belongs to the Malians! Before asking ourselves questions about our own interests, it would be good to ask ourselves, from time to time, by fraternity, by equal consideration, what are the interests of Malians, the best being to ask them, through democratic consultation. Here is where we stand: eight years of war, fifty-five French people dead, five billion euros spent, two million displaced civilians. This year alone, twelve of our soldiers have died, and we spend 2 million euros a day. So you have to have one or two questions. Again, my intention is not to make the situation in my country more difficult. I want to question and make it sound. We are at war: what are our objectives? Let's say it clearly. You know, like me, minister, minister, that we will one day withdraw. Nobody in this room says we're there forever! But under what conditions? That's what we have to say. And how do you intend to meet these conditions? What do we do: the war on terrorism? But how long has France been waging war on concepts? It is the United States that does this, and the result has been seen in Afghanistan. Who is our enemy in Mali? "The jihadists" is not enough. I ask another question: who pays these people? The unfortunate people engaged in a military career around Lake Chad, which is empty and where the ecological disaster is becoming a political catastrophe, are now very few to buy. Who pays them? This is the one we must name as our enemy, because he pays for it. And someone pays! If there are more jihadists today, we have to ask ourselves why: is it because of the French presence, or because someone is putting more money into it? These must be hunted, and punished: they are the ones who organize disorder throughout the area.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u7	Thank you.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u8	Minister, Minister, tell us who is the funder of the war that our enemies are waging.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u9	Thank you, Mr. President Mélenchon...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u10	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Indeed, we must conclude, and I will do so with a word. Minister, we disagree, I saw it very well yesterday. Peace cannot be built with tyrants. We are rebuilding France's image in this area, and it cannot be purely military. We mustn't be seen as occupiers! No one in France, I know, wants to occupy Mali: let's show it. Mali must be free, and the first thing we have to do is to help organize honest elections there.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u11	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you all that the usual practice since the beginning of the health crisis is that every speaker keeps his mask during his speech, unless there is a particular difficulty.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u12	Forgive me, Mr. President, it wasn't voluntary.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u13	Reminder's done. Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u14	On 15 February, the seventh ordinary session of the G5 Sahel Conference of Heads of State was convened in N'Djamena, Chad, as a further opportunity to relaunch an operation that has required a military and economic infusion for eight years. Why did we get here? Who can believe in a military victory in the war on terrorism, when this strategy has failed for twenty years? When we wage war on scattered groups, which have no real coherence, and gather under the generic name of "jihadists" without really understanding the multiplicity of their intentions, like winning militarily? These groups are constantly evolving, avoiding direct confrontations but killing more and more people by creating and amplifying ethnic tensions, while showing incredible resilience to the setbacks they face thanks to the action of our soldiers, whom I salute. Conducting armed reprisals is all the more complex because it is in its former colonies in West Africa that France is present, complicating the acceptance by the populations in which the armed groups develop an anchoring strategy. So we are far from winning hearts and minds, as any victorious counter-insurgency demands. So how can we stop a war that is neither won nor lost? What conditions will make it possible to emerge from the conflict? My conviction, as I shall say in all humility, is that long-term objectives must be given priority, replacing them with short-term military objectives whose repeated successes only fuel the Danaides' barrel, and which impose a freeze on the political context. Freezing the political context means doing nothing in the name of stability when a head of state oppresses his people or steals elections. This is how the issue of jihadism indirectly serves certain heads of State of the Sahel: Idriss Deby in Chad is one of those who fully uses this pretext of stability to keep brutally in power, flouting democracy. It is precisely by allowing the will of the peoples to be stifled and by suggesting that the leaders remain in power thanks to Paris that the unpopularity of France and its army in the Sahel can only grow. In view of the obvious failure of this strategy of war against terrorism and the terrible political impact of the short-term tactics of our military intervention, we must amplify political and diplomatic action, Minister. I repeat, we must give priority to the long term, and to this end we must act directly on the socio-economic soil that has allowed this filthy beast to emerge. The jihadism of the Sahel is rooted in the collapse of states and public services linked to the cuts imposed by the International Monetary Fund in the 1980s. Exsangues, the people have tried to survive, but the public services have never been restored and the states have never really recovered from this budgetary shock; They have not been able to carry out effective, sustainable public policies aimed at combating corruption, raising taxes, empowering education, health, culture, or empowering people to live together. More than ever, the solution lies in the re-foundation of States, respect for peoples and their rights and the development of public services. As you will have understood, it is a question of imagining a solution where military objectives would be subject to democratic, popular, humanitarian requirements, not the other way round, as is the case today; a policy where the long term dictates its objectives in the short term. This implies, I insist, coordination at the highest level of the various actors: armed forces, foreign affairs, Agence française de développement – in connection with the United Nations, because France, a permanent member of the Security Council, must step up its efforts to ensure respect for international law and national rights. This requires strengthening bilateral and multilateral official development assistance; encouraging public policies of national reconciliation, supported if necessary by international justice; propelled a policy of consolidating democracy at all levels; assist States in restoring public services worthy of the people of the Sahel. Such a project takes time, but for ten years we could have made much better progress. To have the support of the peoples is at stake; to obtain it by concrete political actions, by democracy, by diplomacy and not by armed intervention alone, this is a path that the Communist deputies propose to dig in order to win hearts and minds.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u15	Mrs Françoise Dumas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u16	As chairman of the Committee on National Defence and the Armed Forces, it is above all our military action that I want to talk about, that is to say, Operation Barkhane. This operation was the subject of a fact-finding mission by the committee which I have the honour to chair, and whose co-rapporteurs, Mr Sereine Mauborgne and Mr Nathalie Serre, will present the conclusions in mid-April. First of all, I would like to welcome the commitment of our soldiers in the Sahel, where 5100 troops are deployed to protect local populations, our country and Europe. Fifty-one of them have died there for France since 2013 and this morning my thoughts go first to their families and their brothers in arms. To pay tribute to them, I would like to refer to the major progress we have made over the past year in the wake of the Pau summit. The year 2019 had been very rough: the Gathering for the Victory of Islam and Muslims – Al-Qaeda – had managed to extend its area of influence to the south of Mali, reaching northern Burkina Faso and even Côte d'Ivoire. As for the Islamic State in the Greater Sahara – Daesh – its members had been particularly active in the area of the three borders. Local and UN forces, like the French forces, have paid heavily for blood, as have civilian populations. But we must welcome the progress made since the Pau Summit. They are the result of three factors: first, the strengthening of our own means, both human, with the deployment of 600 additional military, and technical, with the arming of Reaper drones that have increased our firepower and our responsiveness; Secondly, the increase in the commitment of our international partners, first with Takuba, which brings together Estonian, Czech and Swedish contingents and increases in power every day, but also with the support of Operation Barkhane of the American forces, which has never denied itself, as well as that of the British, Danish and Canadian forces which bring to Barkhane essential transport capabilities in view of the width of the theatres; Finally, it is the work of multilateral operations, MINUSMA and EUTM Mali, which could no doubt be deepened but which are essential for everyday life, in particular to strengthen local forces. This is the third factor explaining the progress achieved in 2020. Although sometimes they remain fragile, the Sahelian armies are strengthening. This is demonstrated by the ever-increasing involvement of local forces and the joint G5 Sahel force in larger, time-scaled and much more coordinated joint operations. I visited the Sahel in the aftermath of Operation Bourrasque, which mobilized 3,000 French, Nigerian and Malian soldiers: the French then accounted for 53.3% of the troops deployed; The ratio was already reversed at the beginning of 2021, since French forces account for only 44% of the new Eclipse force. Through new modes of action, we have collectively achieved valuable tactical successes and greatly reduced the terrorist threat, particularly in the area of the three borders. So we are on the right track. We should therefore welcome the fact that the N'Djamena summit was an opportunity for the President of the Republic to announce the continuation of our efforts and, for our Sahelian and international partners, to confirm and strengthen their commitment. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Mr Yannick Favennec-Becot also applauds]] Is that enough? Certainly not: how can we suggest for a moment that military action alone could solve a crisis whose factors are above all political, economic and social? It is for this reason that an integrated global approach was put in place in Pau and confirmed in N'Djamena. It requires intense development and diplomatic efforts at the same time. Above all, however, it presupposes that the Sahelian States themselves regain their own ground in their respective territories and restore confidence with their people. Can they do it? Do they want it? Are they ready to undertake the reforms necessary to achieve these objectives? These are the analyses and questions I wanted to share with you.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u17	Mrs Nathalie Serre has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u18	A vast subject only that of France's policies in the Sahel. As co-rapporteur, together with Sereine Mauborgne, of the fact-finding mission of the Committee on National Defence and the Armed Forces on Operation Barkhane, I must first mention our military action. For in the Sahel, France is first and foremost present militarily: for the past eight years, our forces have been fighting against the terrorist armed groups operating in the region, destabilizing the states, killing the populations and aiming to establish jihadist sanctuaries where to spread their deadly ideology. With Operation Serval, France stopped the advance of jihadists who threatened Bamako. Since 2014, it has been fighting, alongside local and international partner forces, against an enemy who is constantly adapting to our mode of action and who manages to survive by taking advantage of the structural fragility of some Sahelian states and their failures. Yet, if there is one thing we cannot doubt, it is that our military intervention in the Sahel is achieving results because, since 2014, Barkhane has changed his face, and the efforts made have borne fruit. This is particularly true since the Pau summit, which has enabled us to launch a new military dynamic: terrorist armed groups have been permanently hit by larger operations, such as Bourrasque or Eclipse, as well as by the neutralization of many leaders. These successes we have collectively won despite the caveats of some of our international partners and the human and capacity constraints on local forces. The fight against armed terrorist groups is not the only act of France. It also mobilizes our European partners, whose involvement we could hope to see even more, Minister Jean-Louis Thiériot will come back with a question, as well as our American ally, whose intentions we would like you to detail in the area, and the local forces, individually and within the framework of the joint G5 Sahel force. Their rise in power is, moreover, one of the greatest challenges, for France is obviously not meant to remain committed to the Sahel for ever. It is the Sahelian forces that must ensure the security of the territories. In this perspective, the French armies also carry out training operations: this is also the policy of France in the Sahel. In Mali, a few months ago, I was marked by my exchanges with a captain of the Malian armed forces at the head of one of the light reconnaissance and intervention units – ULRI – which the French armies have helped to form. In Niger, when I visited the joint force command post, I was able to see that things were moving forward in the direction of further cooperation. That is why I am convinced that it is not time to reduce our efforts but, on the contrary, to intensify them. This should not only concern our military action; It must also focus on development policies. This is another aspect of France's policies in the Sahel. So how can we not welcome the adoption, the day before yesterday, by our assembly, almost unanimously, of the programming bill on solidarity development and the fight against global inequalities? Speaking on behalf of the Republicans Group, our colleague Bérengère Poletti noted that, finally, this text allows us to meet the requirements of transparency; She added that the French are entitled to have the assurance that the means given by France will not be diverted by corruption. Let us beware, Minister, that with transparency, the countries we support and where our soldiers pay the blood price will invest for a return from the state to their territory, providing their people with access to education, water, care and justice, defining projects that will guarantee their development and find their own solutions to climate, demographic and economic challenges. At least that is what we hope: it is in order to achieve these objectives that our soldiers are fighting in the Sahel, and here I renew the support and confidence of Members of the Republican Group. [[Applause on the benches of the LR and LaREM groups. – Mr Bertrand Pancher also applauds]] Finally, I hope, Minister, that you will further explain France's strategy for development aid in the Sahel – I stress the word "strategy" – and the way in which your two ministries cooperate to make the 3D approach something other than a political slogan.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u19	Mr Philippe Michel-Kleisbauer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u20	We are gathered eight years after France responded to the call for help from Malian President Dioncounda Traoré. It should be said right away that neither the President of the Republic nor you, Florence Parly, the Minister of Armed Forces, have created this situation, but that you are, like all of us, the heirs. We are almost unanimous on these benches to think, Madam Minister, that the President of the Republic and you have been honouring, since the beginning of our mandate, the bravery of our warriors. Our armies, our homeland, our villages have paid a heavy price for this region so much loved by free living Africa. A woman and more than fifty men have, with their blood, watered the furrow of the earth of all origins. Their souls now sit here or there on the chairs left empty by other brothers and sisters of arms. They and she mixed their blood in the sand of the desert, their spirit in the winds, their life in eternity, on this land of Mali, for this land of Mali, like generations of fighters before them, Senegalese, Malagasy and animists poured theirs on the lands of France. Ah, Mali Mali, which gave birth to Amadou Hampaté Bâ, one of the greatest sages of African culture! Like his friend Theodore Monod, whom he called "his silent river", he guided from Bandiagara to Bamako, via Mopti and Ségou, all those who, through the writings, learned that this ring of Niger was home to so many peoples, cultures, stories to discover, to appreciate and to respect. He has taught us that in traditional Africa, the individual is inseparable from his lineage, which continues to live through him and of which he is only the extension. He has made us discover that many of the inhabitants of this region are descended from different ethnic groups; Sometimes, like him, at the same time of Peuls, people of nomadic pastors, and of Toucouleurs, of Tékrour, a group of ethnic groups welded by the use of the same language. He taught us that this land of Macina has long been the scene of fratricidal wars, as did the Toucouleurs of the army of El Hadj Omar and the army of the caliph Peul Sekou Amadou. Finally, he introduced us to the secrets and symbols that allowed the miraculous child Bâgoumâwel to triumph over Njjedo Dewal, mother of the kaidara calamity. It is these ancient cultures marked by tidjanism that the jihadists from the north, the east, the south or the interior want to disappear. They first attacked the mausoleum of Muslim saints in the mythical city of Timbuktu, as they did in Palmyra or Bâmiyan, and then pursued by massacring ethnic groups or confessions in unheard of violence in order to subdue entire populations. Their actions and purpose remain the same, at a time when some wonder about our presence there: the objective of the jihadists is to make peace impossible. Like Boko Haram in neighbouring Nigeria, jihadists feed on state bankruptcy. Terrorist organisations manage to appear as credible alternatives to the state format, and some wonder if we should stay there! This terrorist organization disseminates a network of Koranic schools that replace the school system, and others would like to point out tactical choices! Ladies and gentlemen, it is we, politicians, who fail by deserting the field that is ours, where our soldiers, at the price of blood, make the construction of peace possible. Paralyzed by a colonial history that we still find it difficult to face, we should turn back, while our duty is to help these sister populations in Africa? However, President Jacques Chirac had shown us a way when the National Committee for the Memory of Slavery was set up. I quote: "The greatness of a country is to assume, to assume its entire history. With its glorious pages but also with its shadow share. » That is why President Macron stressed the will of the African States that appealed to France, from its inauguration and at the Pau and N'Djamena summits, to regain their sovereignty and to build a democratic society. But let us rid ourselves of the words-valises that belong only to the West, such as that of "development", or even the more sought after one of the "co-developments" of the late Claude Cheysson, who was one of your predecessors, minister! [[Applause on the benches of the Dem, UDI-I and LT groups as well as on a few benches of the LaREM and Actir ens groups]] Let us agree to accompany Africa in its own path, the one it has chosen, as invited by the new school of thought led by Alain Mabanckou, Achille Mbembe or Felwine Sarr. Let us respect the independence of these States while helping them to build justice for social, economic and democratic people. If we respect these cultures and identities, then we can build peace. It is time that politics reinvested its field, to give peace one of its most beautiful voices, that of France.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u21	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u22	Mr Alain David has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u23	Since 2014, France has been engaged in a large-scale military operation in the Sahel, costly in human life – I pay tribute to the commitment of the military, which goes as far as the sacrifice of their lives – which is costly in terms of material and financial resources and which, unfortunately, is less and less supported by the people of the countries concerned. While our troops have had military successes and have been unable to harm a significant number of jihadists, on the ground the breakdown of state structures, violence, poverty and desertification are progressing and legitimately worrying for the future. As our American partners have seen in Afghanistan, in this type of contemporary asymmetrical conflict conventional military methods are very inadequately effective.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u24	We, too, were present in Afghanistan!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u25	The challenges that open up to us are therefore many. It is necessary to fight terrorists, but also to help rebuild the ways of governance in these countries, to make them capable of resisting Islamic projects on their own, to respect local particularisms, to curb corruption and to promote education, because too many young Sahelians adhere to Daesh's theses, often out of ignorance. It is therefore necessary to establish and help to establish a genuine education plan for all in the Sahel. Let us also promote culture and development. Let us help these countries to cope with the consequences of climate change and to control the demographic explosion and its consequences. At the recent G5 Sahel summit, the President of the Republic had insisted on the "3D" – defence, development, diplomacy – and announced that French military personnel in the area would not be reduced. But it seems urgent for the European Union to take its rightful part in the search for a solution and not let our country work alone, or almost, to contain terrorism. On several occasions, we have called for European participation. At a minimum, French military expenditure in Operation Barkhane should not be taken into account when calculating the deficit. There is also a need for African countries to engage in enhanced cooperation in defence and security, for example in ECOWAS, but this seems all the more complicated as the recent military coup in Mali has further weakened the situation. Recall that in March 2012, a coup d'état – carried out since the same garrison as that of 2020 – had already led to the overthrow of the president of this country, increased instability and paved the way for the progression of the Islamic-jihadist armed troops, which still terrorize the country and the region. [[Applause on the SOC and GDR benches]] Therefore, in these difficult moments that further weaken Mali, we can only share the concerns of the Malian people and express our full solidarity with all the democratic forces of Mali. Can you, minister, take stock of the situation, and tell us whether the military power that has established itself envisages allowing the return to constitutional and civilian order, with the support and mediation of regional or international partners? Can you also tell us to what extent our military efforts are part of the broader development project in the region? What is the status, in particular, of the ambitious project of a large green wall, fifteen years after its launch? The aim of this project was to erect a 15 km wide cultivated band on nearly 8000 km long, from Senegal to Djibouti, which clearly did not achieve its objectives. This flagship programme, which aims to provide political solutions to multiple and complex environmental threats – such as land degradation, desertification, drought, climate change, loss of biodiversity – but also to poverty, food insecurity and even terrorism, seems to complement military efforts in the Sahel.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u26	Mr Bertrand Pancher has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u27	France's policy in the Sahel is at the crossroads of many regional issues and has global repercussions. The first are the approximately 100 million people living in the five G5 Sahel countries, who are directly confronted with the resurgence of terrorism, demographic challenges and the effects of climate change. Faced with these perils, France has made the choice – which honors it – to respond by intervening politically, militarily and promoting development. The Libertés et territoires Group shares this strategy, which we believe is complete. This debate gives me the opportunity to welcome once again the exceptional commitment of our military personnel, which makes us admire, and to pay tribute to the fifty-five missing soldiers for peace. I also have a thought for the too many civilian casualties. Engaged in 2013 with Operation Serval, the French military intervention in the Sahel region continues today with Operation Barkhane. The number of troops mobilized in the field has increased sharply, from 3000 to 5100. Our group welcomes the progress made by this operation – I am thinking in particular of the disruption of terrorist groups through the neutralization of many jihadist leaders. Our troops strike at the heart of these organizations, which has allowed the Islamic State to repel the Great Sahara in a horse-riding area between Mali, Niger and Burkina Faso. France's Sahelian strategy also aims to accompany these states, so that they can ensure their security independently. The Malian forces have thus gained control and, as General François Lecointre, Chief of Staff of the Armed Forces, reminded us in the Defence Committee, there is a beginning in Mali, in some places, of the return of civilian authorities such as governors, mayors and police authorities. We can welcome this, even if the road ahead remains long. However, France remains alone in the front line, despite the support of the G5 Sahel armies and the logistical support of the United States. Remember that we are the country of Europe that sends the most soldiers – 5100. The Takuba force had to materialise Europe's commitment alongside us, but only three European neighbours have so far integrated it: the Czech Republic, Estonia and Sweden. Minister, Minister, what about the commitment of other partners? The target was an additional 2,000 soldiers: do you have a specific timetable? In addition, specialists identify a new form of enemy. Today, it would be difficult to distinguish between terrorism and local insurrection. The IRIS – Institute for International and Strategic Relations – seems to share this position: the types of actors are multiple, intercommunal conflicts, jihadists and fighting by self-defence militias often mingling. In view of these elements, the solution to put an end to instability, which has lasted for eight years, cannot be purely military. At the Pau summit in January 2020, President Emmanuel Macron and his G5 Sahel counterparts had publicly found that Operation Barkhane could no longer effectively contain the jihadist threat. Although the temporary reinforcement of 600 French soldiers has improved the situation, we are facing a form of stalemate in French politics in the Sahel. So some ask if we should withdraw our troops. By the way, our group believes that the answer given must consolidate Barkhane's achievements and not sacrifice them. [[Applause on a few benches of the Action ens group]] However, it is now essential to provide a political response. Indeed, beyond the military effort, it is the return of the State, administrations and services to the people and the consolidation of the rule of law and good governance that will guarantee lasting peace and meet the needs of the people. These are the priorities we must set to stabilize the region: economic development and, therefore, official development assistance are the key to ending local instability. Let's increase our efforts in all these areas!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u28	The next speaker is the Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u29	For the past eight years, at the request of its Sahel partners, France has been engaged in this region to fight against terrorist groups who yesterday sought to establish an Islamist caliphate, and who, beaten in breach, pursue a lethal strategy, chaos and destabilization. [[Ms. Françoise Dumas acquiesce]] [[Mr Philippe Michel-Kleisbauer acquiesce]] Even if Mr Gassilloud has already traced the history of the operation, I will recall a few facts which are forgotten a little too often. First of all, our commitment was initiated at the request of our Sahelian partners. We didn't get here by intrusion! This commitment was renewed at the Pau Summit, at the request of our Sahelian partners, and has been continuously validated by the United Nations and the African Union; In no case, therefore, does it constitute a break-in.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u30	Nobody said that!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u31	Mr Mélenchon, I wasn't saying that for you – at least not just.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u32	And that's the truth!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u33	I wanted to recall that, in these operations, terrorism is not just a concept, that the groups that claim to be RVIM – Gathering for the Victory of Islam and Muslims – in Mali are attached directly to the command of Al-Qaeda, whose actions are known in different countries of the world, including our own territory. Similarly, groups claiming to be EIGS are directly linked to Daesh, which maintains a local network.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u34	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u35	Terrorist aggression is therefore not a smoking concept, but a reality – it must be recalled from time to time. In addition, all the decisions and guidance we have taken to deal with them have been validated by the United Nations Security Council and its General Assembly. The Sahel is Europe's southern border, and the threat to the people of Mauritania, Mali, Burkina Faso, Niger and Chad also affects the security of other African countries. Let us consider the development of Boko Haram and ISWAP – the Islamic State in West Africa – in Nigeria, the situation in Mozambique, the risk of weakening the northern border of the Gulf of Guinea countries. We are therefore talking about a threat to global security, to that of Africans, Europeans and French. We were, it is true, the first to take full measure of this threat and to act to counter it, first with Operation Serval and then with Barkhane. But for the last eight years there has been a real European awareness. I want to insist on this because it is reflected on the ground: Bertrand Pancher calls for it, but it already exists with the rise of the Takuba task force, the mobilization on the spot of European personnel in the framework of EUTM Mali and EUCAP Sahel and Mali, the important support of the European Union for the deployment of the joint G5 Sahel force that we have supported and engaged because it will ensure tomorrow the stabilisation of security in these countries, and the mobilisation of European soldiers and police in MINUSMA. The Minister of the Armed Forces will return to all these elements in a moment. For eight years, beyond European commitment, an international architecture has been built around the Sahel. It allows us to articulate the answers to be provided immediately in the military field to ensure the stabilization and those of the long time, called for by André Chassaigne, which relate to political negotiation and development. I will come back to political negotiation later. For development, the Sahel Alliance brings together 25 technical and financial partners to allocate $23 billion to more than 900 projects in the key sectors of education, energy and agriculture. Only development will record the return to stability in the long term:...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u36	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u37	... it is indeed essential to give future prospects to the women and men of the Sahel, especially to the new generation. The overall architecture is being deployed within a comprehensive and integrated framework of action thanks to the coordination role now played by the Sahel coalition, which we launched a year ago at the Pau summit and which coordinates the four priority pillars identified at this summit: the fight against terrorism; Capacity-building of the Sahelian armed forces; support for the redeployment of the State, the new governance and the return of basic services; of which I have just recalled the importance. For the past eight years, we have tried, each in his office and with Mrs Florence Parly for the last four years, to inform the national representation very regularly of the progress of these subjects, particularly at the meetings of the relevant committees. The initiative of this debate is happy and comes at the right time: it gives me the opportunity to return to the period leading up to the G5 Sahel summit held in N'Djamena on 15 and 16 February. The stakes were clear: the foundations had to be laid for a civilian burst, during the military burst decided in Pau in 2020 and which achieved major successes against terrorist groups. The civil upsurge, which the Sahel now needs, is first and foremost political. This is particularly necessary in Mali. Mr. David, you wanted to get information on this, you should know that appointments are set. A coup d'état occurred due to strong protests by the population against the previous government and the presidency of Ibrahim Boubacar Keïta, said IBK. Transitional authorities have been set up; they will logically have to give way when the electoral process is implemented. We have regular relations with these authorities since the community of African States has recognized that they will no longer govern after March 2022 at the latest. We have a relationship of trust with President Bah N'Daw to meet this timetable. There is every reason to believe that the road map agreed with ECOWAS States will be implemented, but we must be vigilant about the timetable. A political upsurge recently emerged at the meeting of the follow-up committee to the peace and reconciliation agreement concluded in 2015 at the end of the Algiers process. The very existence of a formal meeting is progress, as the committee only met informally. It was held under the auspices of my Algerian counterpart, Sabri Boukadoum, designated as the leader of the mediation for peace in Mali, and in my presence – virtual, the health needs having imposed video conferencing. This meeting was held in Kidal, under the Malian flag and in the presence of six ministers from the host country, a strong and unprecedented sign of the commitment of the new Malian authorities to support this agreement. These positive aspects are reinforced by the long-awaited decisions taken by the UN-sponsored Monitoring Committee in the disarmament, demobilization and reintegration movement, which aims to integrate ex-combatants into national military formations in an accelerated form. In addition, we call for the release of funding from the sustainable development fund – FDD – for the deployment of projects in northern Mali: this funding, provided for by the Algiers agreement, has not yet been allocated, but will be allocated in the near future. In addition, major institutional reforms have been announced, including the revision of the Malian Constitution, the adoption of a law establishing a territorial police by the National Transitional Council and the transfer of resources to local authorities, which is also part of the Algiers agreement but not yet implemented. Everyone was present at this meeting: the signatory armed groups, the Malian central authorities and the international actors guarantors of the agreement – the Algerian authorities, the United Nations and the African Union. It is now important to ensure that these commitments are realized: we will pay close attention to them. This vital civil shock also requires a surge in development. Thanks to the dynamism of the Sahel Alliance, much has been done since 2017 in order to meet the needs of the people; In 2019, 3 billion euros were disbursed to finance projects supported by the Alliance: it's huge! This is in line with the commitments made by France, particularly within the framework of the interministerial committee on international cooperation and development – CICID – which some of you are well aware of and which we spoke about during the recent review of the draft programming law on solidarity development and the fight against global inequalities. We have reoriented our financial commitments to the Sahel Alliance, both in our ODA – official development assistance – general and in the commitments of AFD – French Development Agency. The Sahel Alliance's commitment is beginning to bear fruit on the ground: among many examples is Kona's economic recovery and stabilization project in central Mali, which was a conflict zone some time ago; This commitment has enabled the rehabilitation of the port, the vocational training of 3,500 young people in the region and the restoration of classrooms and clinics. The revival of development has begun. It is also thanks to the mobilization of France that the emblematic project of the large green wall will be revived: the President of the Republic took the initiative at the One Planet Summit last January, which resulted in the mobilization of nearly 14 billion euros of funding. We intend to give new impetus to this project, launched several years ago by our African partners, in order to combat desertification through the greening of the Sahel and to change the lives of the people. The current challenge of the Sahel Alliance is to improve the coordination and territorialisation of aid, which is now insufficient. We have therefore decided to focus our efforts on the most fragile and vulnerable areas, seeking a better synergy between humanitarian, stabilization and development actions: this is the message that I conveyed to the Alliance's second General Assembly held in N'Djamena under the Spanish presidency just before the opening of the G5 Sahel summit. All actors are determined to work together to better coordinate actions and avoid silos. Finally, the civil surge in the Sahel is also the start of stabilization.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u38	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u39	In liberated areas, support must be given to the redeployment of the State, territorial administrations and basic services. In concrete terms, it is a question of allowing markets to hold themselves again, farmers to regain their fields and to the traffic to resume on the roads: improving the daily lives of the people is a decisive link in the reconstruction of the link between the States and the citizens of the areas affected by the crises, at the same time as the sine qua non condition of a real return to peace. Important milestones have already been laid: the development of mobile internal security units in the reconquered territories, the strengthening of internal security forces in Ménaka, Mali, Tillabéri, Niger or Ouagadougou, Burkina Faso, improved access to water, electricity and health, progress in the judicialization of terrorist acts or the construction of fortified enclosures to accommodate representatives of the Government's legal services and social services. Progress has been made, but the record is not, as those of you who have visited the countries of the Sahel know: because of corruption and the bad practices that persist in the administrations, the people have not obtained all the gestures they expect in the fight against impunity for the violence committed against them, and public officials in the areas most affected by the crises still do not have the means to carry out their mission. In short, States are not yet fully fulfilling their responsibilities. This was one of the important points of the conclusions of the N'Djamena meeting. We have developed a road map for the Sahel coalition to deploy inter-ministerial strategies at the highest political level in each Sahel country; We also decided to implement, with the support of the partners, flexible financial tools to ensure rapid responses; Finally, we have created pilot areas – including the Kidal region and the quadrilateral including the cities of Tera, Dori, Douentza, Gao and Ménaka, whose fragility is known – to demonstrate the effectiveness of this new approach. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem, Agir ens, IDU-I and LT groups]] These are the initiatives taken at the N'Djamena summit, apart from the military actions on which the Minister of Armed Forces will return. Today, the Sahel coalition brings together some 60 actors: technical bodies, development structures, European and non-European countries, like Japan, meet on the four pillars and especially on the civil leap that encompasses the last two. The ministers concerned will hold their first road map validation meeting in Berlin in a few days: the international dimension of development aid is there, proof that the lines have moved considerably in the Sahel. We are making every effort, together with our partners in the region, the European Union and the rest of the world, to consolidate the results of these eight years of engagement and record our successes in time. We do so out of solidarity with the people of the Sahel and because our own security is at stake.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u40	The Minister of the Armed Forces has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u41	First of all, I would like to thank you on my behalf and, I think I can also say, on behalf of the Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs, for your invitation to participate in this House in the debate on the Sahel strategy, which the N'Djamena summit took stock of. By way of introduction and before going back to the orientations of this summit, I think it is essential to recall some facts that you are well aware of. Why are we in the Sahel? The Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs has just strongly recalled this, for he has lived these events closely: we are in the Sahel, because Mali asked us for our help in 2013 to repel the jihadists who wanted to take power and impose their law by terror. We are in the Sahel, because Mali and its neighbours are asking us to stay and fight with them. This is very important because, in these circumstances, saying that we are in the Sahel means above all that we are with our Sahelian partners, with Europeans and with Americans to fight terrorism. Finally, we are in the Sahel because we do not want it to become a terrorist sanctuary that threatens French and European security. So, to those who hide behind arguments that they want to reassuring, brandishing the fact that no attack on French interests has been organised or sponsored since Mali, I would like to answer two things. First of all, it's not true. Rather than mentioning the attacks on Grand Bassam or the Radisson Blu, which I have often had the opportunity to speak about before the Defence Committee, I will simply recall that almost three years ago, almost to the day, Al-Qaeda's branch in the Sahel was carrying out a double attack in Ouagadougou, which directly targeted the French embassy, killing eight people and wounding eighty-five. Secondly, with regard to terrorism, what has not yet happened is simply a future to be prevented, by all means. Our presence is a guard against the transformation of the Sahel into a rear base, a headquarters, a thinker of international terrorism. We know that the attacks of 11 September 2001 were organized since Afghanistan, that those of 13 November 2015 were prepared in Syria. We cannot let history repeat itself and look at it without acting. For eight years, our forces have been fighting alongside our partners to prevent the worst, to protect us. The military is constantly adapting to the threat, and I too would like to pay tribute to their professionalism and constant commitment. As you know, there has been a military surge since the Pau summit convened by the President of the Republic a little over a year ago. The aim then was to intensify the fight against terrorism in the region of the three borders and to accompany the rise of the Sahelian armed forces. At the N'Djamena summit, which took place a few days ago, we collectively found that significant results were achieved. In the region of the three borders, which lies on horseback between Mali, Niger and Burkina Faso, Daesh in the Sahel is severely hampered, even though it retains a still significant regeneration capacity. We also managed to weaken Al-Qaeda by neutralizing its number one in the region, Abdelmalek Drukdal, and several of its cadres; and more recently Ba Ag Moussa, the military leader of the Sahelian branch of Al-Qaeda. I agree with you, these terrorist organizations often seem to be real hydra where a new head immediately takes the place of the previous one. But it must be understood that by eliminating first-rate jihadist leaders, by hunting the enemy from the territories he tries to arrogate himself, by hunting him tirelessly into his most remote caches, we obtain military effects far superior to the mere reduction of his numbers: we demoralize, disorganize, we exhaust. This progress has, in some places, created the space for development actions, as the Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs pointed out. We owe these military successes, of course, to the remarkable performance of Barkhane's troops, but also to the mobilization of Sahelian partners and the commitment of Europeans. Indeed, the rise in power of the Sahelian armies is confirmed; Every day we see encouraging progress and results. By our side, the Sahelian armed forces have regained confidence, increased their skills and gained autonomy. Accompaniment to combat was particularly effective at the end of 2020, during Operation Bourrasque – the Chair of the Defence Committee recalled this. Of the 3,000 enlisted soldiers, half were from Niger and Mali. In early 2021, Operation Eclipse replicated the same pattern with Nigeri, Malian and Burkinaese forces engaged alongside Barkhane soldiers in the Liptako Gourma. The empowerment of Sahelian forces is also reflected in the joint G5 Sahel force. This cross-border force, which was created in 2017, has really come to power in 2020 under the command of General Namata. In particular, it conducted two major operations in the central zone: SAMA 1 and SAMA 2. It is preparing a third, SAMA 3, in which a battalion of 1200 soldiers will be involved, which Chad has pledged to mobilize to fight against terrorist armed groups in the area of the three borders. It is therefore a significant effort. What is also significant is the fact that the Defence Ministers and the Chiefs of Staff of the G5 Sahel armies met in N'Djamena on Saturday and Sunday to agree on the operational objectives of the coming months and on the efforts to achieve them. The Joint Force Commander, General Namata, has thus received a clear road map. All this shows the mobilization of the Sahelians, particularly around the joint G5 Sahel force. This ad hoc force was created by and for the G5 Sahel countries to respond to this acute cross-border threat. The challenge for the coming year is therefore to consolidate its functioning, in particular by stabilizing its resources and its support. The joint force still needs funding and support. Barkhane does it, but Barkhane can't do anything. That is why the mobilization of the international community is as necessary as it is important. International support in the region is obviously not new. Since 2018, Operation Barkhane has been supported by several European partners, including Estonians, British and Danish. They support us with ground troops or capabilities essential to conducting our operations, such as helicopters. The same is true of the support our American partners give us in the Sahel: they support us in very important missions, such as tactical and strategic airlift, in-flight refuelling and intelligence. For example, US support on the Eclipse mission accounted for 50% of surveillance and reconnaissance flights. What is new is that in 2020, the internationalisation of the fight against terrorism in the Sahel was further strengthened with the launch of the Takuba force. Composed of European special forces, it exercises under the command of Barkhane and accompanies the Sahelian soldiers in combat. Nine countries have committed themselves to this. The first Franco-Estonian and Franco-Czech quotas are operational; the Swedish contingent, consisting of 150 military personnel and three manoeuvring helicopters, completes its deployment; That of the Italian contingent will begin soon. The rise of this force will continue within the framework defined by the President of the Republic at the N'Djamena summit, because the goal in the Sahel is to achieve more agile cooperation. We will be able to rely more and more on Takuba to accompany the Sahelian military on the path of autonomy. The European effort is obviously not limited to support for Barkhane and Takuba. Europeans are also engaged in bilateral actions and European Union-led missions. I am thinking in particular of the EUTM Mali military training mission, which is a particularly effective tool for the training of Malian armed forces: more than 17,000 Malian military personnel have already received training. Its missions are expected to expand in the coming months in Burkina Faso and Niger, in line with the fifth mandate that was voted in 2020. In order to carry out these missions, EUTM Mali's staff will increase from 750 to more than 1000 in 2021 and 1250 in 2022, thanks in particular to the reinforcement provided by the Spanish and German contingents. In all, it is therefore more than 2900 Europeans, in addition to the French, who are present in the Sahel. As you will understand, these numbers will grow in the coming months. All these international initiatives require coordination, in order to reap the full benefits of these efforts and achieve the most significant results possible. It is the role of the Sahel Coalition, created at the Pau summit, that continues its structuring. The N'Djamena summit also allowed the new High Representative of the Coalition for the Sahel, Chadian Djimet Adoum, to take office officially. The strengthening of military action, decided in 2020, has led to a reversal of the military power ratio. As the President of the Republic pointed out, "[it] would be paradoxical to weaken our system at a time when we have a political and military alignment favourable to the achievement of our objectives". It was therefore decided to continue the effort undertaken since the Pau summit, in order to consolidate the operational gains of recent months and to maintain the support of the Sahelian armies. Finally, talking about the fight against terrorism in the Sahel without mentioning security issues in the Gulf of Guinea would be a serious mistake. It must be well understood that these two subjects are inexorably linked, and that the porosity of the borders of the coastal fringe countries can lead to the spread of the jihadist threat. At the N'Djamena summit, the Heads of State therefore called for closer coordination between the G5 Sahel countries and the Gulf of Guinea countries. We are already supporting regional initiatives in this direction, particularly in Accra, launched in 2017 by five countries – Benin, Burkina Faso, Côte d'Ivoire, Ghana and Togo – to respond to the growing insecurity in the Gulf of Guinea and the threat of terrorist contagion from the Sahel. Mali and Niger were admitted as observers in 2019. This initiative focuses on three areas: information and intelligence sharing, training of security and intelligence personnel, and conducting joint military operations. It must be noted that the results are still modest. That is why we must support the rise of this initiative. We are already working on the training, in particular with the International Academy for Combating Terrorism in Abidjan, the creation of which was decided in 2017 by the President of the Republic and his Ivorian counterpart in order to train cadres and units in counter-terrorism. A specific intelligence training component will be created in 2021, with the support of the Military Intelligence Directorate. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem, LT and IDU-I groups as well as on some benches of the LR group]] I repeat, if it is necessary, that Operation Barkhane is not eternal. However, there is no question of leaving today. First of all, our partners are asking us to continue to help them; Then, a consultation with our Sahelian and international partners must be a prerequisite for the evolution of our system; Finally, I repeat with the greatest conviction, the security of the French and Europeans depends on it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u42	We come to the questions. Let me remind you that the duration of questions and answers is limited to two minutes, without the right to reply. We begin with the question of the Working Group. Mr M'jid El Guerrab has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u43	The Sahel is at the heart of my constituency, that of the Maghreb and West Africa. I cannot begin my intervention without having an emotional thought for all its inhabitants, nor without paying tribute to our soldiers for the blood they shed, those who are fighting against the instability of the region. To the famous Malian writer, Amadou Hampâté Bâ, we owe the maxim: "Men can achieve a common goal without taking the same paths. The same applies to the action of France and its African partners in the Sahel: we must strive to achieve a common goal, peace and stability, without concentrating all our efforts on military action. The latter must no longer be the primary prism for addressing the Sahelian question. For example, discussions on the draft programming law on solidarity development and the fight against global inequalities, and its adoption in the Chamber on Tuesday, have shown how a strong and integrated official development assistance policy is an effective instrument for diplomacy and influence. For it will be necessary, Minister, in good intelligence with our African partners, to use the word'retirement', which is still taboo. It cannot be otherwise, as our presence in the Sahel is increasingly misunderstood in France and Africa. Even yesterday, Le Canard enchainé referred to the negotiations of some states with jihadist groups. If we want to look more closely at the political situation on the spot, there are democratic processes that should be welcomed, such as the recent election of President Mohamed Bazoum in Niger, or the re-election in Burkina Faso...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u44	Thank you, my colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u45	Here's my question: at a time when certain elements outside the continent come to fuel the embers of a putative Francophobic sentiment...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u46	[[Applause on the benches of the LT group]] Thank you, Mr. El Guerrab. I am confused to interrupt you, but we must respect the speaking times that I recalled just before you spoke, especially since the agenda provides for thematic issues after this debate. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u47	[[Laugh. – Exclaims on LT banks]] I'm embarrassed, Mr. Member, because I didn't anticipate your question. You are a Member of Parliament for the French from the Sahel, whom I greet with great consideration. As the Minister of Armed Forces said in her conclusion, if our presence there is not meant to be eternal, the conditions for our withdrawal are not yet met. In addition, it is essential to strengthen the joint forces of the G5 Sahel, so that the countries concerned will in future ensure their security with their own forces, independent of the French forces, but supported by the international community. We tend to. [[Smile]] I stress that the four pillars of the Pau summit are inseparable, even though the military dimension has taken a prominent place in 2020. After the N'Djamena summit, it was essential to commit to civil, development and stability. Did I answer the question you didn't ask me?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u48	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u49	The next speaker is Mr Yannick Favennec-Becot, for the IDU and independent group.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u50	My question concerns the informational aspect of the war we are waging in the Sahel. In modern conflicts, information warfare plays an important role. Some belligerents thus tend to appropriate, destroy or modify information in order to manipulate knowledge and indoctrinate populations. Unfortunately, we see this regularly: the fight is particularly active on social networks, where many conspiracy theories are circulating, in which it is said that France is at the origin of the Sahelian conflict, with the aim of recolonizing this region and looting its resources. It is said that French troops were apprehended by Malian customs officers, with boxes filled with gold ingots, that we would have provided logistical support to the armed groups we are fighting, or that we would have bombed a marriage in Mali, causing many civilian casualties. [[MM. Bertrand Pancher and Bruno Fuchs applaud]] Disinformation and manipulation, sometimes supported by evidence created from all parts, have considerable nuisance power. How does France fight against this informational war? What counter-influence operations do our armies conduct, and, above all, how effectively?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u51	The Minister of the Armed Forces has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u52	This dimension is indeed essential. Our enemies or adversaries pursue a political goal; They have fully understood the interest of the information field, which targets the French and Sahelian minds, and undermines the support of the French and local populations for our operations. [[Mr. Jean-Louis Thiériot applauds]] Several types of actors spread false information and rumours. Foreign powers are undeniably involved: Russia and Turkey are among the players in competition to challenge our democratic model and our values, through influences hostile to France. It is seen, for example, in the Central African Republic, where an anti-French narrative is constantly deployed through these channels. Terrorist groups have also understood the power of misinformation. Bounti's episode is very enlightening in this respect: unfounded rumours have spread rapidly and, a few denials that we have brought, some information that we have shared, nothing has done there, some alternative truth has settled, even though it is completely virtual. A State cannot communicate on the basis of unverified rumours: we commit the word of France. We therefore constantly check the information we publish. In addition, it is essential that we too invest this field of informational warfare.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u53	The next speaker is Mr Bertrand Pancher, for the Libertés et territoires Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u54	The three components of sustainable peace have been repeatedly mentioned: limiting the capacity of terrorist armed groups to act and to harm them; professionalizing the defence and national security forces in a context of stable institutions; and improving the socio-economic environment of the population through access to basic needs. When we know the underlying reasons for the instability of the region and the development of terrorism, it seems essential to link the military solution with development issues. We need to offer an alternative to the use of violence. It is true that, over the past five years, France has increased its development assistance to the Sahel by more than 30 per cent. The draft programming law on solidarity development and the fight against global inequalities, voted on Tuesday, has just recalled this. However, the question of the good governance of such aid arises. Several reports point out that the resources made available for development projects have been used by the region's elite or central government. The question also arises of direct aid to NGOs, often small, to finance micro-projects. One can only be convinced by the need to further develop direct aid of this kind. Our country still has a lot of work to do in this area. Can you tell us what efforts are being made in this direction, or in the future?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u55	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u56	You are asking real questions: it is imperative that our ODA reach the populations it targets and that its increase be made in the greatest clarity. To achieve this, we respect three principles. In advance of the deployment of the projects, we are trying to be sure that the funds will be well spent on achieving the target set, notably through the compliance department of AFD and its local branches. At the time of implementation, we are also trying to give priority to the actors on the ground, i.e. in concrete terms to the infra-State actors – NGOs and local and regional authorities in particular – who offer the advantage of being most often in direct contact with the people. To do this, we use the AFD, the provisions of the Crisis and Support Centre – CDCS – or projects of the Solidarity Fund for Innovative Projects – FSPI – which usually goes through NGOs, trying to have a territorialised and integrated approach at all times, under the responsibility of our posts, in particular the ambassadors. Finally, when the law we have spoken about is finally adopted, we will have to verify, through the independent evaluation commission, that the projects have achieved the objectives set. [[Applause on the benches of the LT group]] Thank you for asking me this question, because it concerns a concern that we must always have in mind.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u57	Mr Bastien Lachaud, for the Group of the European People's Party, spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u58	After eight years of military engagement in Mali, it is more difficult than ever to know precisely the objectives of this war. As the military say, what is the final state sought? We have long been told that this is a war on terrorism. But terrorism has been a long-standing process and it is well understood that this war will not put an end to it. We were then told that this was a war against terrorists. Let's take a closer look at this. Who are they? Are we able to distinguish, among all those who carry weapons in the Sahel, between the nationalists, the traffickers, the jihadists, the mercenaries of encounter, the miseries who lay a mine for a handful of money? I seriously doubt it and I'm not the only one. Moreover, the number of all those carrying weapons is constantly increasing. The press releases follow on to announce ongoing operations during which dozens or even hundreds of enemies were neutralized. Yet the total number of those we face never decreases. Last November, General Lecointre estimated that the forces of Operation Barkhane were facing about 1500 men in Liptako; You'd be in danger of saying that there are fewer of them four months later. We are in Hercules' situation in front of the hydra: with every head that falls, it pushes back at least one. Therefore, it does not seem reasonable to say that the destruction of terrorist groups is the prerequisite for the withdrawal of our troops, as the executive has suggested in recent years. Again, Madam Minister, what is the final state sought? What conditions must be met to order the recall of French troops? Present these conditions to the nation. Because without a specific plan, you will never be able to declare that the mission is being carried out, or to bring our soldiers back.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u59	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u60	I am pleased to return to a number of points which I and the Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs have already mentioned in the general discussion. Why are we in the Sahel and who are we fighting? We are fighting terrorist groups affiliated with the major international terrorist centres: Daesh and Al-Qaeda.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u61	That's clear.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u62	That's what we're fighting. Why are we fighting them? Because these groups have a political project, which goes far beyond the Sahel and is ready to overflow to the south, in the Gulf of Guinea. These groups wish to impose their law, that of the sharia,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u63	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u64	[[Mr. Bastien Lachaud protested]] ... which consists of enslaving populations. Finally, these groups are likely to pose a threat to Europeans, to their security. They have already demonstrated this by preparing attacks – not from the Sahel, I grant you, but from the Levant; But they're the same organizations. That's what we're fighting! When we neutralize one terrorist, another may reappear next door. It is for this reason that we aim to disorganize the heads of terrorist chains, in order to weaken them,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u65	That's not what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u66	... to disorganise them and thus to contribute, through our military action, to creating the conditions for political action which, alone, will resolve the problems of the Sahel and restore stability. So things are very clear.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u67	Nothing is clear.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u68	[[Applause on the benches of the groups LaREM, Dem and Agir ens. – Mr. Jean-Louis Thiériot also applauds]] The President of the Republic recalled that our road map is perfectly clear. Letting them think that it is not useful neither to the Sahelian populations, nor to the European populations!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u69	Yes, it's serious, Mr. Lachaud.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u70	He's not listening!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u71	The next speaker is Mr André Chassaigne, for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u72	Operation Barkhane only has one-off successes. Despite eight years of war, violence and loss of life have not decreased, on the contrary. In view of this, it seems obvious that a simple adjustment of the scheme is not sufficient: France must prepare for its departure from the Sahel. It should not be a brutal departure, which would be both destabilizing and counterproductive for the whole region. We must begin to discuss, multilaterally, an agenda for the withdrawal of the armed forces, with a view to putting an end to this operation. This withdrawal should not, of course, mean abandoning our African allies in this war against terrorism, on the contrary. It will be necessary to support in time the joint G5 Sahel force through intelligence, logistical assistance, training missions, as the Takuba force does. As I have already said, France must also support long-term policies and allow people to express themselves and choose their destiny, rather than simply supporting military objectives. The issue of development must thus become a central element of French policy in the region. France must prioritise its development assistance in order to reshape local public services, while at the same time helping States to levy their taxes, so that they can recover their full territorial sovereignty on a sustainable basis. [[Laurence Dumont applauds]] To that end, it was essential to deploy effective means to combat the illicit financial flows that fueled terrorism and against corporate tax evasion, which undermined national budgets. Mr Minister, how can we better involve the various actors, by strengthening coordination, in order to allow for complementarity between the army, diplomacy and the actors involved in development aid, in connection with the United Nations? How can we ensure that France is not only incarnated in the military register?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u73	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u74	I believe I have already given you some answers on the key issues of governance and long-term development. I also pointed out that the four pillars of the Pau Summit are inseparable, and that the emphasis must now be placed on the last two pillars, namely governance and the restoration of the State in its territory. With regard to development, we are committed to fostering the work of the international coalition, that is, of all partners. For example, it is Spain's Foreign Minister who is currently chairing the General Assembly of the Sahel Alliance. Many other actors are involved, including the World Bank, to ensure that development is on the agenda. The main issue we need to address is the territorial dimension of development: let's avoid adding projects that are separate from each other – such an organization, such a country, doing something like that in such a part of the territory – and instead identify pilot areas, to coordinate development action with local partners. Of course, these are not the habits of the actors of development, for everyone wants to affix his flag and his signature. Since the meeting of the Sahel Alliance held fifteen days ago, we have focused on strengthening coordination with local actors in the pilot territories that have been identified, under the aegis of European actors. That is the commitment we are making. However, it will have to be verified that it takes place on the spot, because the habits taken are likely to upset it, even though there is a lot of money available, a lot of possibilities, a lot of projects. It is now necessary to move on to the implementation phase and to ensure that projects are implemented quickly, especially in areas of high conflict, such as the three-border zone.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u75	Thank you.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u76	Mrs Laurence Dumont, for the Socialist and Related Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u77	As everyone has said, a comprehensive approach is needed in the Sahel. Armed struggle alone cannot be the solution; People must be given a perspective. To do so, we have a lever: the large green wall. This large-scale project aims to erect a plant barrier, from Senegal to Djibouti, and aims at sustainable management of land and natural resources. This green wall creates jobs and contributes to the protection of the Sahelian population, but also to the protection of the French departments of the West Indies, which are the more and more regular victims of the sand mist of the Sahara. It is therefore a comprehensive project of society, which can be accompanied by a rethought of the armed forces. We could, in fact, associate Barkhane force with this construction site, through the military engineers,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u78	What a misknowledge!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u79	We'd have to go for a ride on the spot!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u80	... that could help local people build vital infrastructure, as the Licorne force in Côte d'Ivoire has done. This would improve the reception that is given to our forces on the ground, as well as the living conditions of the people. [[Applause on the SOC benches]] By redeploying missions of the Barkhane force alongside the population and around the large green wall, France can become a major player in the civil and development surge that you and the President of the Republic, Minister, want. Are you in favour of the association of the Barkhane force with this indispensable project for lasting peace?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u81	Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u82	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u83	Your proposal leaves me puzzled.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u84	Dubitative.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u85	I am determined to ensure that the initiative of the great green wall is the mobilising, visible and sustainable element of the development of the whole Sahel and beyond, since it extends over 7,000 kilometres from Senegal to Djibouti. It corresponds to a very precise concept: to vegetate a 15 km strip to combat desertification and to ensure that the populations concerned return to agro-pastoral activity. This requires considerable financial mobilization: the African Development Bank has already announced that it will mobilise 6.5 billion euros, as well as the World Bank, while AFD is committed to 600 million euros, a figure that I have not yet communicated to you but which I am telling you, because I know that you are very interested in this. To accelerate the achievement of this large green wall, we have established a platform for the coordination of several actors, in order to achieve the objectives set. Commitments have already been made, as in Burkina Faso, Senegal and Mali. The CIRAD – Centre for International Cooperation in Agronomic Research –, supported by AFD, promotes good agroecology practices in the area concerned, and 12,000 hectares of land have already been restored in Senegal thanks to the support of France. Initiatives are also being taken in Chad to develop market gardening and oilseed crops. As for the articulation with Operation Barkhane, I am not very supportive of it: on the one hand, all development-related operations must be deployed, and on the other hand, the Barkhane force must concentrate on its mission. On the other hand, I plead for an immediate humanitarian and development response when military activities in a given territory cease, but this does not correspond to the great green wall.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u86	The next speaker is Mrs Sereine Mauborgne, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u87	The third pillar on which the action of the international coalition for the Sahel is based concerns support for the return of the State and administrations to the territory. It is because some of the Sahelian states are unable to regain their territory that Barkhane's tactical successes are slow to turn into a real strategic victory. That is why, a year after the military burst decided in Pau, the Heads of State meeting in N'Djamena called for a political and civilian surge in order to ensure the redeployment of basic administrations and services for the benefit of the people – I insist: for the benefit of the people. Indeed, the need for the return of the State is often stressed without being aware that, for some of the Sahelian populations, the State has never been present, or that its presence has not always been salutary. In the face of the abject violence of armed terrorist groups, new public policies are therefore needed to ensure people's access to education, health, security or robust and fair justice, so as to resolve in a peaceful manner the land conflicts between nomadic pastors and sedentary farmers. Restoring trust between people and public authorities also means improving the distribution of wealth and combating corruption on the one hand and impunity on the other, two poisons that make the bedrock of terrorism on the other. In N'Djamena, the Sahelian States committed themselves to carrying out the necessary structural reforms in favour of transparent, inclusive and effective governance, but how can we ensure that these commitments are translated into practice? Are the United Nations and the European Union on these vital issues?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u88	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u89	I have already spoken about this in my initial remarks and in response to previous questions. When a military or pacification operation is completed, our first concern is that the State provides an immediate response by providing basic services: school, health, the fight against corruption and impunity. This can also be done by moving elements, namely caravans; In this way, efforts are being made to ensure the immediate presence of the State. That is why we are sending humanitarian representatives to Barkhane, in close coordination with the Minister of Armed Forces, to respond immediately – I am thus completing my reply to Mrs Dumont. This action is very important; If it is lacking, if there is a lack of interest on the part of the States concerned or if there is a renunciation of development, we will again see, in five years' time, young people who will be fighting with terrorist groups, because they pay for them. It is also important to fight trafficking, which you are interested in but which we have raised relatively little so far. Mr. Mélenchon asked earlier about the means of financing terrorist groups. A large part of these come from drug trafficking – from Guinea-Bissau to Europe through Libya, where it benefits from relays and, sometimes, from the complicity of foreign powers – from arms trafficking, trafficking in human beings and trafficking in potential migrants; All this pays off! To achieve a peaceful situation, we must fight against all these traffickings. This is precisely one of the results of the N'Djamena summit: the G5 Sahel has set itself the goal of combating transnational crime, a major factor of instability.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u90	We come to the questions of the Republican Group. Mr Jean-Louis Thiériot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u91	Speaking in this Chamber, I am thinking of Conti cavalry hunters and Chamborant hussards who have fallen in the Sahel in recent months. I am thinking of the words of Jean-Marie Bockel, who knows the price of blood, for having lost a son there. They're too many dead; That they didn't die for nothing! They fell at the request of friendly countries, our African allies, to protect the people, to ensure the security of France – which is also playing in the loops of Niger – to contribute to the control of migratory flows and, above all, to prevent the creation there of a form of caliphate, which could extend to the Gulf of Guinea, Senegal or Côte d'Ivoire, under the auspices of the EIGS or the RIVM. I would like to welcome the strong words of the President of the Republic, who recalled the meaning of our commitment and confirmed its sustainability. It is a war in which there will be no Austerlitz, nor a parade of victory: there will be only unknown tactical successes and losses, alas, too well known. But not to lose is already to win. For the morale of our forces, the rear must hold and we, the national representative, are part of it. Our men there are the advanced sentries of Europe. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group and on several benches of the LaREM group]] I wanted to ask you a question about the commitment of our partners, but you have answered it extensively. I will therefore concentrate on the German commitment, in all its forms, on which I would like you to make a specific point. It must be carefully scrutinized; The German refusal to engage in the Takuba force has been a bad signal for us, at a time when you are leading, Madam Minister, difficult negotiations on the SCAF program – the air combat system of the future. There is some indecency in claiming intellectual property rights in the French industrial heritage, even though the price of blood is not being paid. The construction of a Europe of defence requires the development of common capabilities, but also a joint commitment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u92	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u93	You have mentioned two rather different subjects: on the one hand operational cooperation and on the other hand capacity cooperation. Nevertheless, I fully agree with you, what we want to build at European level combines both. We know that our partners cannot or do not necessarily want to engage in the same way in the different compartments of this cooperation. It was therefore important that we have tools that enable those who want and can commit themselves. This is the very purpose of the European Intervention Initiative. The Takuba force is also a happy consequence of the exchanges that took place in this context. The Germans cooperate and participate. It is not because they have made the choice – we must respect it – not to participate in the Takuba force that they are not present in the Sahel. They are very active in this area: they have deployed more than 800 troops to MINUSMA; they will increase their contingent, currently by 450 soldiers, within EUTM Mali; they provide for the formation of special intervention units in Niger; Finally, they are very committed to the Partnership for Security and Stability in the Sahel, which focuses on the baptismal fonts jointly by the President of the Republic and Chancellor Angela Merkel – the Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs took stock, among other things, of this tool. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] We must have a vision that is not negative, but positive and dynamic. We have not given up at all to amplify Germany's contribution to the Sahel.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u94	Mr Claude de Ganay has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u95	One year after the Pau summit, which brought the number of our soldiers engaged in Barkhane to 5,100, we unfortunately find that the security situation in the Sahel has not improved, especially for civilians. However, the four pillars defined in Pau by the President of the Republic – you recalled them, Minister – were and remain relevant. To combat terrorism, we have adopted a policy of targeted assassinations aimed at neutralizing the leaders of the ISGS and the RIVM, through our intelligence services and American support. Do these removals make it possible to destabilize the organisations concerned in a sustainable manner? Is it not possible, in the face of the Islamist hydra, to see the heads cut off immediately? The strengthening of the G5 Sahel countries' own military capabilities has taken shape, notably through Operation Bourrasque and Eclipse. Do these armies manage enough to be accepted by local populations? Should they not come out of their garrison logic and go further to meet them? Restoring the State and its public services throughout the Sahelian territory requires the involvement of all the populations of these multi-ethnic states. Of course, France does not negotiate with Islamists. On the other hand, can we consider engaging in dialogue with separatist organizations such as the MNLA – National Movement for the Liberation of Azawad – with a view to demilitarizing the region and re-focusing on the fight against Islamist terrorism? I will refer to the final development, which you call for, Mr Minister, thanks in particular to the Sahel Alliance. The Director General of AFD has recently stated that we are increasingly able to intervene in areas of great insecurity, the very ones that most need infrastructure. Are the Sahelian armed forces trained to protect these infrastructures, in a logic of proximity military units? Our strategic action in the Sahel is perfect. In the continuation of the N'Djamena summit, we must learn the lessons of this action, while insisting on French public opinion on its merits. If we abandon the Sahel, we would pay the consequences for terrorism and illegal immigration to the national territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u96	I would remind all speakers that the duration of questions and answers is two minutes. It would be good if everyone respected their speaking time. It is a matter of fairness among the members of the Assembly, and we have a second debate to hold during this meeting. The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u97	You rightly insist, Mr de Ganay, on the four pillars identified at the Pau summit. In 2020, we focused on what I called the military burst. As I explained, significant results have been achieved on the military front, and the N'Djamena summit called for the use of this acquis to advance civil action, political action and development action. To weaken terrorist organizations, as I said, we target the organizers, the leaders, the leaders. This is an in-depth action, much more effective than neutralizing terrorist groups that are very easily re-established, recruiting young people who are often unemployed – if I may say so – and paying them, in fact, in a very modest way. Indeed, the leaders are those who hold knowledge and information, who have access to the financing channels. By targeting them, we are giving ourselves the means to sustainably weaken these organizations. You're absolutely right, Mr. de Ganay, the state must be able to come back. That is why we must ensure that the actions of the military are properly coordinated not only with those of development operators, but also with those of political leaders. Hence the importance of the political commitment of the Sahel States, which was reiterated at the N'Djamena summit. This work must be carried out by the Malians and the Sahelians. We are determined to support the military effort we have been carrying out for several years, so that the long-awaited results of the Sahelian populations will finally become tangible: the reopening of schools and clinics; restoration of access to water. As the Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs said, we really need to link military action with political and development action.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u98	Mrs Sophie Mette, for the Group of the European Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u99	First of all, I would like to thank the Group of the European People's Party for putting this central theme of France's policies in the Sahel on the agenda. The reinforcement of French troops decided a year ago allowed Operation Barkhane to record notable victories, including the elimination, in June 2020, of the historic leader of Al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb. The cohesion and formation of the armies of the countries grouped within the G5 Sahel has progressed, so that the leaders of the states of the region threatened by Islamists are more than ever asking for the French presence. The N'Djamena Summit, which brought together the G5 Heads of State, provided an opportunity for France to take stock of its commitment to the Sahel. It was rightly decided that there would be no short-term adjustment of our military apparatus. A brutal departure of our forces would be to leave friendly countries in a security situation conducive to a sharp deterioration; those who deny it remain in a form of ideological denial. Radical Islamism in the Sahel still thrives largely on the basis of community tensions. The expansion of the Islamic State organization in the Greater Sahara has been stemmed by our action. These victories must be perpetuated and re-edited. In the medium term, France must change its doctrine from a logic of external operations to a logic centred on the fight against terrorism and cooperation with the armies of the region. Our action is useful and consistent; In order to give it a relevant follow-up, it is necessary to Saharan the struggle and to internationalize it. Minister, Minister, at what time is such a development possible? Above all, what will be the concrete consequences, particularly from a financial point of view? You have provided some answers, but we would like clarification.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u100	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u101	Madam Member, thank you for highlighting the main directions of development outlined by the Heads of State and the President of the Republic at the N'Djamena summit. The permanent adaptation of the Barkhane force is part of a well-established political framework: the increasing internationalization of intervention in the Sahel and the Sahelation of operations. The internationalisation, which I have already described, takes the form of an increased presence of other European countries on our side. I mentioned Estonia, Sweden, Denmark, the United Kingdom and Germany, but I could also have mentioned Spain, which has a very important contribution. Sahelation is an essential process. Our ultimate goal is for the Sahelian forces to independently ensure the security of their own countries, but it will not be reached overnight. The work is progressive and we can already welcome the very great progress made, particularly in 2020. I have come back to some particularly emblematic operations with the Sahelian armies – emblematic from the perspective of the scale of the forces involved but also of the skills they have developed, whether it is the ability to coordinate or the ability to hold positions in command positions. It is by taking into account all these elements that we measure all the progress we have made. Of course, there will be other developments. What is important is that we continue to support our partners in the long term, as the President of the Republic has requested.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u102	Mrs Amélia Lakrafi, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u103	I would like to associate my colleague Jacques Maire with my question. Beyond the military and security aspects, all partners gathered in Chad in February recognized that only the restoration of the State and services to the people would guarantee lasting peace. As a complement to military action, economic and social development derails the sources of terrorist recruitment, fosters the emergence of viable and sustainable economic prospects and provides hope for the stabilization of the area. Operation Barkhane must therefore give its full place to the links between the armed forces and civil society, which plays an essential role in improving relations with the people. In this regard, I welcome the importance given to the Sahel in the draft programming law on solidarity development and the fight against global inequalities. However, the military presence remains a prerequisite. If public opinion is less and less favourable, we welcome the continuation of our commitment. However, it is more than necessary for our European partners to become more involved. Could we have specific information on this, Madam Minister, beyond Italy's participation in the Takuba force? Development is as essential as military action. The Citizens' Coalition for the Sahel, which brings together dozens of Sahelian, West African and international non-governmental organizations, sees the conclusions of the N'Djamena summit as "a very positive sign of a change of approach in order to better take into account the needs of the people" and welcomes the commitments made by the Heads of State in terms of transparency and governance of funding. However, the massive commitments of donors must be seen on the ground as truly effective; However, this is not quite the case yet. The AFD-funded Sahel Chair team questions our ability to deliver aid and highlights the difficulties that local governments face in monitoring aid flows to their countries. While the second General Assembly of the Sahel Alliance has just sanctified the allocation of €23 billion, can you tell us what is planned to improve the disbursements and effectiveness of our aid?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u104	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u105	Indeed, it is essential that the considerable sums mobilized by the Sahel Alliance be made visible on the ground so that people can identify the international community's action for development. Of the €23 billion, €3 billion has already been disbursed, indicating that the projects are being implemented. However, it is important to target areas where a territorialised approach to development can be deployed, with a pilot designated by all actors involved in the relevant missions and through coordination between countries under the aegis of the European Union. That is the objective: the current shortcomings must be rectified in this respect. There are many possibilities available to us. In Ouagadougou, I recently inaugurated "La Ruche", a place where young Burkinabés wishing to develop a project can benefit from financial and operational follow-up. On this occasion, I discovered exciting projects, driven by a strong will and considerable dynamism. It is this type of device that needs to be implemented; This is where partnership with NGOs and AFD-related actors can be fully effective and contribute to pacification and the return of serenity, both in Burkina Faso and in other countries in the region.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u106	The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u107	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u108	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u109	The next item is the question of the role of banks and insurance in the crisis of covid-19. I would remind you that the Conference of Presidents has set the maximum time limit for each question and answer at two minutes. We begin with the questions of the IDU and independent group. Mr Christophe Naegelen has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u110	You announced the freezing of insurance premiums in 2021 for the companies most affected by the health and economic crisis caused by the covid-19 epidemic. Indeed, an agreement had been reached between the Government and the insurance companies, which had agreed to freeze the contributions of professional multi-risk contracts for the year 2021 in the most affected sectors. Yet we are far from the announced victory. In my constituency as elsewhere in France, insurers still refuse to insure discotheques, or at more than prohibitive rates. Worse, they impose an excessive additional insurance premium on condominiums in which a nightclub is located. To give you a concrete example, to Gérardmer, Mr. Tisserant, owner of a nightclub, is confronted precisely with this situation: since the beginning of the health crisis, he has not received any compensation for operating loss from his insurance company, which he had to contract in addition to a foreign company because the French insurers refused to insure him on this risk, and the insurance of the condominium where his premises are located asks him for a premium of 10000 euros to insure the building. These practices are unacceptable and penalize actors already severely affected by administrative closure measures. What do you intend to do to put an end to it? In addition, the threat that restaurants, bars and cafes are now viewed by insurers as high-risk establishments, as well as discotheques, is very real. An excessive increase in their insurance premiums would then be fatal to a sector already in great distress. What measures do you intend to take to support hotels, cafes, restaurants, discotheques and to ensure that insurers finally take their full part in the national effort? With regard to the specific case I have just outlined, how could we work with your services to find a solution?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u111	The next speaker is the Minister for Economic Affairs, Finance and Recovery.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u112	A commitment has been made, it must be kept. The Government, for its part, provides compensation to all sectors currently closed, through a solidarity fund that has been greatly strengthened for hotels, cafes, restaurants, events, culture and sport. On the other hand, the insurers have made a commitment not to increase the premiums for occupational multi-risk insurance, it must be respected. You can send me the files that are a problem and we will settle them. I want to reiterate how important it is for a commitment to be fulfilled; Otherwise, we will not be able to break out of the crisis and revive sectors of activity such as those you mentioned.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u113	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u114	Mr Christophe Naegelen has the floor on a second question.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u115	I thank you first of all for your answer; I will forward the relevant files to your services. Private corporate debt has reached historical records. Among the challenges they face, in addition to organizing the return of their business, businesses face increased debt, as a result of the government-guaranteed loan, the EMP. Contracted in a climate of drastic decline in activity and intended to safeguard the economic fabric by allowing companies to survive, this loan celebrates its first candle. Although a one-year deferral of the start of repayment has been granted, companies will face the debt wall. In view of the slow recovery of the business and the lack of visibility, it is essential to review the repayment arrangements, otherwise companies will not be able to cope with the repayment of the contracted EMPs. It is essential to extend the repayment period, as some of our European neighbours have done, to eight years or even ten years, but without increasing the cost to businesses. The value of establishing viable repayment conditions is multiple; Under too harsh conditions, companies will be in insolvency and the State will have to operate its guarantee. Let me turn to my questions: What is the status of negotiations on extending the repayment period? If so, how long would it take and can you guarantee businesses that the cost of the EMP will not increase? A shift in EMP legislation is needed, as it would ease the pressure on businesses, while giving them the opportunity to strengthen their own funds and boost investment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u116	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u117	I will make two remarks to begin with. Gross debt and net corporate debt should not be confused. The companies were in debt to cope with exceptional circumstances, for a total of 170 billion euros, but they also greatly increased their cash flow by 150 billion euros. What counts is net debt, which is therefore less than EUR 20 billion. In these circumstances, there is no particular concern about the level of corporate debt. To make it simple, there has been a large share of precaution savings for households, but also for businesses. You are referring to the extension of the maturity of State-guaranteed loans. I would remind you that these loans are the subject of a signed contract; I am ready to reflect on this and have opened discussions with the European Commission to examine how to move from a six-year maturity, for certain sectors and in exceptional situations, to an eight-year maturity. But it will be a cost. Spain has done so, but the interest rate on loans that have been increased from six to eight years has increased from 2.5% to more than 4%. I am not aware of a situation in which it is possible to extend the maturity of loans without resulting in an increase in rates. Moreover, I am not sure that this is the best solution for companies. It seems to me that we should rather accompany them in the repayment by shifting the first one-year deadline – which we have already achieved – and by allowing growth to start again, rather than systematically extending the period of repayment of the debt.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u118	Mr Thierry Benoit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u119	Once it is not customary, I want to first testify to the fact that, for the past year, good arrangements have been put in place in France to support economic activity; We're not saying it enough. When we compare the measures put in place in France with those applied by our European counterparts – solidarity funds, partial unemployment, state-guaranteed loans, repayable advances – we can only see that they are all tools that, for the moment, cushion the effects of the economic crisis and prepare companies for the rebound. The State-guaranteed loan has been mobilised by many actors: sometimes they have done so out of necessity, sometimes out of anticipation, but also out of precaution. However, it is known that a quarter of the companies that have obtained a government-guaranteed loan have already mobilised and exhausted it to repay current charges or debts. The question of reimbursement of the EMP will therefore arise very quickly; That was the meaning of our colleague Christophe Naegelen's speech. Under the signed protocols, the company that has to repay its loan must sign it by registered letter to the bank. However, we are wondering about the information provided to and communication with SMEs and TPEs. You have mobilized good tools, as I said in my introductory statement. My question is therefore simple: how do you intend to better inform the economic actors, especially the smallest of them, who are often not accompanied, even if there are many mechanisms in France to help them? How will you ensure prior information and communication?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u120	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u121	If our debate, Mr President, can help to inform companies, it will be very good. I confirm that, in the coming weeks, all companies that have contracted a state-guaranteed loan will have to specify their repayment schedule. It is up to the banking agencies, in all the territories, to inform SMEs in practice and to ask them for their forecast repayment schedule, so that they can examine together, where appropriate, any particular difficulties. I take the opportunity of your question to tell all French SMEs who have contracted a state-guaranteed loan that they must contact their banking agency to specify how they are to be repaid. They have the right to postpone the latter by one year, which means that they may not repay anything for two years, but, on the other hand, they must define a repayment schedule which will be either one year plus five, or two years plus four, therefore a total of six years. We are considering extending the repayment period to eight years, exceptionally, for certain companies; But, I repeat, this prolongation will necessarily have a cost. In any case, it is now that the terms and conditions need to be specified.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u122	Mr Thierry Benoit has the floor on a second question.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u123	I am one of those citizens and parliamentarians who believe that the state cannot do everything alone. Through the tool you have created, the famous solidarity fund, it is in reality the public power that comes to the aid of the most fragile and economic actors affected by the crisis. This fund is currently abounded by the State. Do you intend to mobilise the economic actors who, in the whirlwind of the health crisis, finally manage to pull their pin out of the game in a very correct way? I am thinking of GAFAM – Google, Apple, Facebook, Amazon and Microsoft; You have made statements and taken action in this regard. I am also thinking of what is called the Big Pharma, that is, the major manufacturers of medicines, but also of real estate, large-scale distribution, international power stations, the banking and insurance sector. Do you intend to make use of them so that we have, on the one hand, those whom I would call the forced ones, who draw their pins from the game in the health and economic crisis that we are going through and, on the other hand, the beneficiaries, those who we wish to help through the solidarity fund? To return to insurance, a debate took place in March in order to encourage account to be taken of operating losses. Of course, what we have been told over the past year is that the coverage of operating losses falls under insurance contracts, that there is a regulatory and legal component. But beyond these two aspects, it seems to me that we can ask the insurers to make an additional effort to take over, in one form or another, according to the regulatory or legal terms that will be appropriate, the operating losses of discotheques, restaurateurs, of all those who are hit by the crisis.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u124	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u125	We must not forget that banks and insurance represent hundreds of thousands of jobs, a presence in the territory, but also the life insurance of the French. If we draw too much on these banking and financial actors, who are not theoretical entities, we must realize that, behind it, we are affecting the employment and savings of the French, on which I am obviously careful. The insurers contributed EUR 400 million to the solidarity fund you mentioned, in direct support; they have also committed EUR 2 billion for investment in SMEs. The same applies to banks, with participative loans and subsidies set up under the recovery plan. Then you mentioned the digital giants. It is true that they are the great winners of the crisis and I have been mobilised, as you know, for almost four years now, in order to introduce a fair taxation of these actors; I am confident, after the recent statements by Janet Yellen, Secretary of the US Treasury, that this proposal is moving in the right direction. In fact, it seems to me essential to obtain, during the year 2021, the introduction of the taxation of digital giants.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u126	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u127	We come to the questions of the Freedom and Territory Group. Mr Bertrand Pancher has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u128	Minister, you have just provided us with decisive information on the terms and conditions for repayment of EMPs; They will be of interest to the 650,000 companies that have benefited from this major scheme, for more than EUR 130 billion. You have indicated that in the coming weeks companies will have to inform the banks of their repayment conditions, with the possibility of deferring the first payments for two years. Finally, you are considering extending the repayment period for EMPs up to eight years – very interesting information. When do you expect to announce these measures to companies? Will those who have already committed to repay over six years be able to renegotiate with their bank? The deadlines are coming, and many entrepreneurs are asking us these specific questions. Finally, the creation of participatory loans was announced this morning. What criteria will be used to grant them? Is it certain that they will not favour "zombies" companies, who would perceive them without really meriting them?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u129	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u130	I would not want companies to consider extending the maturity of loans as a magic solution. This is in no way a magic solution, and it can only be exceptional, as a last resort, as it has consequences. First consequence: increasing the maturity of a six- to eight-year loan means extending the State guarantee, which is considered State aid by the European Commission. So we need to get the latter's agreement to do this – I'm negotiating it, because some companies are asking for it. Second consequence: the lengthening of maturity necessarily leads to a restructuring of the debt, and hence the default of the company – very heavy involvement. The third consequence: for banks, the change in maturity of the loan must be made into provisions. In short, the longer maturity of the EMPs would have three very concrete consequences: to extend the state guarantee, to put the company in default and to make provision for the loss induced for the banks. Therefore, this can only be a last resort for the most difficult companies. Let us not let those who see it think that this solution is very simple, as if it was enough to inform his bank that the maturity of the loan is going from six to eight years: the stake is more complex, and it has a heavy impact. I have been asked to think about this possibility and I am working on it, because I am at the disposal of entrepreneurs. We have opened a discussion with the European Commission, but, once again, let us not think that this solution is neutral: it has a cost to the State, to businesses and to banks.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u131	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u132	I would like to raise the issue of credit insurance, which comes back regularly in our debates and in our meetings with the business world. Inter-firm credit accounts for around 600 billion euros, and plays a central role in the smooth functioning of the economy – remember that every year one in four business failures is linked to an unpaid one. However, only one third of the inter-company credit is covered by credit insurance. Several support schemes have been created in this area: CAP, CAP +, Cap Francexport and Cap Francexport +, which benefit from a state guarantee, or the CAP Relais global insurance programme. In return, credit insurers committed to maintain the guaranteed outstanding amounts with their policyholders in the course of 2020. Given the evolution of the epidemic and the economic situation, would it not be appropriate to extend these devices once again, beyond 30 June 2021? In any event, we welcome these tools, which have demonstrated their effectiveness, as we welcome all the support measures that are proposed. [[Applause on the benches of the LT group]] On the other hand, the low rates and the considerable increase in corporate debt increase the risk of increasing the number of "zombies" companies – the French Banking Federation estimates that 5 to 10% of companies that have subscribed to an EMP would not be able to honour it in the long run. Have you commissioned a study on the extent of this phenomenon, which could poison productivity and therefore threaten growth?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u133	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u134	We believe that the risk of "zombification" of companies is less than their risk of extinction. We made a strategic choice. In a crisis situation, it is important to set a clear course: we want to support businesses, prevent their disappearance and avoid bankruptcies. We have succeeded, since only 35,000 bankruptcies were registered in 2020, compared to 50,000 in 2019, during a period of normal economic activity. Credit insurance is indeed a major issue, especially at a time when companies are at risk of default. Companies must be able to lend, and these loans must be covered by insurance. CAP Relay and CAP+ have been created for this purpose and will be maintained until 30 June. In addition, the State has allocated €2 billion of collateral to these credit insurance schemes to ensure that they work well. I therefore hope that credit insurers will play the game, as long as the state plays its own.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u135	We come to the questions of the Group of the European People's Party. Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u136	The health crisis is in full swing. Yet, 8 million of our fellow citizens continue to be punctured by bank charges at the least overdrafted – and in the current context, overdrafts are becoming more and more frequent. For banks, everything is often a pretext for invoicing: the rejection of cheques – invoiced up to 42 euros –, the cost of mail – up to 15 euros –, the commission of intervention – 8 euros –, and I pass it on. This impoverishing mechanism persists despite your statements, Minister. In May 2020, you refused our proposal to cancel these bank charges during the health crisis. A month later, you rejected a bill that I introduced, with the support of six parliamentary groups, to cap all costs. I would like to reiterate that there is no justification, particularly in the current period, for these costs, which are no more than a private tax. On February 4, Cash Investigation devoted a report, evidence to support, to this unacceptable phenomenon. On this occasion, you recalled your priorities in the words: "My responsibility as Minister of Finance is to be careful that our banks remain profitable. It's a little short! As Minister of the Republic, your responsibility is also to put the bank at the service of the client, not the other way around. Whenever the subject is mentioned, your arguments are the same: you welcome the fragile customer offer, forgetting that its progress does not cancel the difficulties. You think this is a good start, when the urgency plunges millions of our fellow citizens into precariousness. Some banks consider that from 1900 euros of revenue, the fragile customer offer is null and void. What do you think? Answering, as usual, by evoking the 360,000 jobs in this sector, is a blackmail that masks a fault of analysis. In the second quarter of 2020, for example, BNP Paribas earned €2 billion in profits; However, the group maintains the 500 job losses planned in 2022. Bank charges pay 6.5 million euros: don't you think it's time to cap them?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u137	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u138	We had an excellent debate on bank incident charges thanks to your bill, Mr Corbière – I have always recognized it. However, our respective strategies differ: you want to go through the law, when we want to go through the voluntary devices that we have created – and I want to emphasize, once again, that they produce results. The principle is to cap bank incident charges at 25 euros per month for fragile customers, and at 20 euros per month – but 200 euros per year – for the beneficiaries of the specific offer dedicated to fragile customers. As a matter of priority, we aim to increase the number of beneficiaries of the specific supply, and to harmonise the rules. The first of these two objectives is met, as the number of beneficiaries has increased by 30% between 2017 and 2019, and continues to grow. As this system works, and as more and more customers have access to the specific offer, I am sticking to this strategy. Note that I have never ruled out your proposal with a back of my hand – you are witness to it. It remains a possibility, if we find that the specific offer does not go sufficiently in the right direction. This is not the case at the moment, since the number of beneficiaries has grown by 30% in two years: this is proof that we are on the right track. At the same time, we need to make progress on the harmonisation of rules; I readily recognize it, and we are working with the French Banking Federation. We need a more accurate statistical collection and more reliable data and, above all, more harmonised between banks. We will continue to work in this direction.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u139	Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u140	I come back to the charge, minister, because, in my opinion, you are not going in the right direction. According to the association UFC-Que choix, unpaid consumer credit could exceed EUR 12 billion in 2021, an increase of 40% over 2020. Confinements, health restrictions, curfews and local reconfinitions devastate the economy, but also, and above all, women and men, entrepreneurs as employees, young, less young, artisans, temporary workers, students, and so on. In this context of great difficulty, where are the banks? Where's the insurance? In 2019, bank incident charges amounted to €7 billion. They certainly exploded in 2020, especially since the 25 euro incident charge cap per month does not apply to everyone, as banks have imposed strict eligibility conditions. Commissions of intervention, costs of rejection of payment or rejection of cheque... even letters informing clients of incidents are paid! We all know that many of our fellow citizens are no longer able to repay their bank loans. The Government must therefore act, in order to introduce a moratorium on all charges and commissions for bank incidents, as well as a postponement or suspension of repayment deadlines during a given period. As Alexis Corbière pointed out, my group has made proposals to that effect. Minister, how do you intend to regulate the scandalous practices of collection companies, this "Dead Credit Exchange," as they say, which is rotting people's lives? Finally, insurance is the winners of the crisis, since claims decreased by 25%, and compensation fell by EUR 1.9 billion; But for customers, the cost does not go down, on the contrary! Therefore, should we not impose a tax on insurers, so that they also participate in the effort?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u141	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u142	I have already spoken about the costs of bank incidents; I won't come back. On the other hand, I share your concern and questions about collection companies. We will verify their practices with the CPRA – Supervisory Control and Resolution Authority – to ensure that they comply with the law and that there is no abuse. I recognize that they deserve clarification. Finally, we recorded fewer cases of over-indebtedness in 2020 than in 2019: from 120000 to 97000. The measures we have taken to support the purchasing power of the French during the crisis have led to a reduction in over-indebtedness. However, we will continue to follow the over-indebtedness very closely – we have given a mission to MP Philippe Chassating on this subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u143	In the questions put by the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left, Mrs Karine Lebon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u144	I am speaking here on behalf of my colleague Jean-Paul Dufrègne. From the beginning of the crisis of the covid-19, many parliamentarians alerted the Government to the role of insurance, and to their duty to honour contracts without invoking abusive clauses – I am thinking in particular of those contained in insurance contracts for loss of operation. Many professionals – from catering, in particular – thought they were covered by this type of contract, which includes specific clauses in case of administrative closure due to epidemics... but which, a little further on, stipulate that they do not apply if the closure concerns several establishments in the territory. This is the case with many insurers. We are faced with a genuine leonine clause, within the meaning of Article 1170 of the Civil Code, which states that "any clause which deprives the debtor of its substance of the essential obligation is deemed to be unwritten". Everywhere in France and abroad, professionals, especially in hotels and restaurants, struggle to assert their rights. Many insured persons have sought justice in an attempt to make themselves heard; Some have sometimes won at first instance, but all have lost on appeal, until Thursday, February 25, 2021, the day the Court of Appeal of Aix-en-Provence sentenced Axa to compensate a restorer for her operating losses due to the covid -19 pandemic. This conviction has created a real precedent and could happen again as procedures are multiplying across the country. The only Axa group has entered into contracts of this type with 15,000 restaurateurs. Insurance has the means to mobilize much more than it has done since the outbreak began. The premium freeze decided in December is not sufficient. You have given up making future pandemic insurance compulsory. Minister, given the vital stakes that these operating loss clauses represent for policyholders, what clear guidelines do you intend to give to the insurance companies to assume their responsibilities?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u145	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u146	You're asking a number of questions. As far as Pandemic Insurance is concerned, let us be clear: it is companies that do not want Pandemic Insurance simply because, unlike natural disasters, pandemics affect the entire territory. This makes it very difficult to cover by an insurance system, unless you offer very high insurance premiums. Companies do not, of course, want additional costs to be added to them. We have therefore chosen voluntary insurance for those who wish to do so rather than mandatory pandemic insurance. But in this respect, I very much agree that we have not found a satisfactory economic model for companies. With regard to the coverage of operating losses, at the request of parliamentarians, the CPRA has established that the vast majority of contracts are very clear: the risks of operating losses are not covered. You are right, there is an ambiguity about about 4% of insurance contracts, an ambiguity that is decided by the judge whose last decision was handed down in Aix-en-Provence. From now on, it is up to the justice system, not the state, to decide these cases systematically. Let's separate the powers. The court decisions are clear and will obviously be enforced.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u147	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u148	Minister, it is natural that, in a debate on the responsibility of banks and insurance in the context of the covid-19 crisis, we are many to ask you about the consequences this pandemic will have on the most fragile and poorest households. At the moment, the political and media debate is focusing heavily on the use of savings accumulated during this period, but the vast majority of these savings are concentrated on the 10 per cent of the most affluent French. For 20% of the most modest households, this crisis has resulted in additional debt with a formidable scissor effect between falling incomes and fixed charges – rents, different subscriptions – which continue. This has created a boon effect for banks as bank charges have accumulated. These costs are not transparent since banks are not obliged to report to Bercy on the conditions under which they apply penalties to households in difficulty. However, this represents a pactole for banks since the cumulative penalties amount to some €6.5 billion. We are not far from the thickness of the trait: these are considerable sums. It is unbearable, especially in times of crisis, when everyone should be united, that banks make profits on the backs of the poorest households. At the risk of repeating the previous questions, do you intend to further regulate the ceiling on bank charges? Do you intend to oppose the increase in these costs in 2021 as envisaged by the banks, and thus send a message of support and solidarity to the 20% of the most modest households in our country?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u149	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u150	Again, commitments have been made on the capping of bank charges and we will ensure that they are respected by the banks. I share your point about saving: it is the strict truth. Indeed, the vast majority of the French were able to spare. But the most fragile households, the young people in precarious situations, those who cannot be supported by their parents, who have struggled to find an internship, who have not been able to reconcile their student work with a small job, find themselves in a very difficult situation. We want to find solutions for them. The "1 young 1 solution" plan is a first answer. A second response is support measures and subsidies for modest households. We continue to work for students – our work in this area is not complete. It is very important, at the end of the crisis, to ensure that answers are provided to everyone. It is now necessary that the savings of those who have accumulated it go towards the economy, towards SMEs, and that it contribute to the return of growth and the creation of jobs. I'll have a chance to get back. As for those who have lost money, although, I repeat, there has been no massive over-indebtedness, we must support them and ensure that the banks' commitment is respected.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u151	We turn to the questions of the Republic Group on the move. Mrs Barbara Bessot Ballot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u152	In my turn, it is about the operating losses that have caused a lot of ink to flow in recent years that I wish to question you. With the Gastronomy study group that I co-chair, we had the pleasure of hearing yesterday Mr. Stéphane Manigold, co-founder and spokesperson of the collective "Stay Open". The coverage of operating losses is a subject he knows well for having been the subject of a first court decision condemning his insurer to indemnify a restorer. Since then, many judgments have been handed down throughout France, testifying to the difficulty of legal interpretation on this complex subject. Indeed, while almost all insurance policies covering restorers are identical to the word, the courts dealing with these cases in Toulouse or Paris have endorsed a different reading of the exclusion clause depending on whether or not it would remove from its substance the essential obligation of guarantee towards the insured. The restaurateurs, like insurers, are therefore faced with legal uncertainty which may have serious consequences. While several appeal courts confirm the validity of claims, as recently in Aix-en-Provence, everything suggests that the judicial marathon of operating losses is just beginning. There is talk of procedures that could last up to five years, with the risk of massive congestion of commercial courts and appellate courts, all over the country, for disputes that ultimately differ only in name. For the restaurateurs, it is certainly a substantial expense to incur, but many feel that they have nothing to lose. In the United Kingdom, the decision of the financial authority to refer the main insurance policies to the Supreme Court resulted in a reference interpretation that relieved the tension on justice, avoided any distortion of application and calmed the debate. Minister, the restaurateurs need clarity and readability on this issue, which cannot be avoided and whose financial implications are considerable. How does the Government intend to facilitate the speedy and peaceful resolution of the problem by ensuring equity between the territories?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u153	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u154	I have already had the opportunity to speak on this subject. I will make three clarifications. First, the operating losses of the restaurateurs are largely borne by the solidarity fund, whose objective is to do so. Secondly, as I said earlier in response to a question from the GDR Group, with regard to insurance contracts concerning operating losses, it is up to the courts to decide and not the State to interfere. Thirdly, as far as future contracts are concerned, I fully agree with you: we must clarify things in order to avoid the ambiguities that existed in previous contracts. We are ready, with CPRA, to work on this in order to reach clear contracts that provide guarantees to restauraters and allow them to know exactly what they are entitled to in the event of a new pandemic.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u155	Mrs Danielle Brulebois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u156	The health crisis will have major economic and financial consequences for entrepreneurs and households. Financial education, which is important in normal times, is even more important in a crisis like the one we are currently experiencing. However, the surveys commissioned by the Bank of France in recent years show that the French are the bad students of the financial culture. Eight out of ten French people express their lack of basic knowledge of economics and finance, their incomprehension in certain banking operations, their lack of control over information which they believe would be deliberately obscure. In a context of increasing complexity and technicality of finance, a globalised economy, sophisticated financial products, renewable credit, new financial actors, financial education is all the more essential as we live in a digital world where the customer is alone in the face of the digitisation of banks, which multiply to individuals offers that are not risk-free. Everyone also receives impromptu financial proposals by telephone, on the Internet or on social networks. In order to make the appropriate decisions, a minimum of budgetary, economic and financial education is required. A good mastery of this knowledge is a citizen's issue and an asset for everyone. Promoting financial education therefore addresses a threefold social, economic and democratic challenge. France has become aware of the magnitude of the task to be carried out. In connection with the Banque de France, it has adopted a national strategy for economic, budgetary and financial education in which many players, such as the French Banking Federation, participate. However, with the exception of the questions of accompanying fragile audiences, over-indebtedness and some initiatives in the school environment, it remains very little known to the general public and little developed. Minister, what does the Government intend to do to promote the financial inclusion of as many people as possible and to enable citizens to mitigate the effects of the crisis on their financial situation?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u157	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u158	As you know, we have launched a financial education strategy, particularly in connection with the Bank of France and the territories, particularly the departments. That is indeed a crucial question. France had fallen far behind in terms of household financial education in terms of access to different types of products, borrowing and over-indebtedness, but we have made good progress since 2017. We remain fully mobilized, together with the Bank of France, to provide support, as close as possible to the territories, to those who wish to do so.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u159	Mr Philippe Chassating has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u160	In every economic crisis, we know that there is a risk of income loss for a number of households. In the present crisis, I am thinking in particular of students, single-parent families and those who have experienced and are still experiencing unemployment, knowing that, in addition, the crisis has sometimes led to an increase in their expenditure. I also welcome the support plan launched by the Government, particularly with regard to partial activity and exceptional assistance. Measures to support households may have helped them stabilize their budgets; They are also of interest to banks to avoid household insolvency, a source of deterioration in bank accounts. In this crisis, some banks played a dampening role in spreading loans and postponing maturities, while others were less benevolent. Minister, how do you intend to further document the relationship between individuals and their banks, knowing that the indicators, basically, do not show a strong deterioration, the file of incidents of repayment of credit to individuals – FICP – and the central file of cheques – FCC – showing rather a stabilization? It would be useful to further document this banking relationship, perhaps by focusing on the population categories of students and single-parent families.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u161	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u162	Mr Chassating, I will be very brief. Thank you for your strong commitment on the issue of bank charges and bank incidents. You have brought many solutions and you are currently in charge of a mission on this subject. The idea of specifically targeting the most vulnerable audiences, especially single women, young people and students, seems to me excellent. All your proposals in this area will, as always, be considered with goodwill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u163	Mrs Valeria Faure-Muntian has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u164	From the beginning of the crisis, a year ago, the President of the Republic made the choice to protect. The Government had therefore taken several decisions supported by the majority: solidarity funds, partial activity and exemption from charges. Since the beginning of the year, we have entered an investment phase with the France Recovery plan, with €100 billion to accelerate the ecological and digital transition and ensure economic equity between the territories. Banks and insurance companies have been involved in the protection phase: the former have granted state-guaranteed loans and the latter have provided financial assistance to the solidarity fund. This morning, you announced new measures – participative loans and subordinated bonds – to achieve the recovery by accompanying companies with cash flow difficulties, so that they can strengthen their own funds. However, in order to sustain the recovery, is it not better to deal with operating losses not through insurance, but rather through new schemes such as resilience provisions and insurance captives, in order to permanently replenish companies in the face of possible systemic crises?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u165	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u166	We support your proposal. Insurance captives are an important factor of attractiveness since there are seven in France, and some 60 French captives are active abroad. We would strengthen our attractiveness by allowing French companies to develop their insurance captives; Your proposals in this area are as always welcome. As for participative loans and bonds, I will come back to that later.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u167	Mrs Christine Hennion has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u168	On 10 February, once all authorizations had been issued, Natixis announced the sale of 29.5 per cent of its shares in the Coface credit insurance subsidiary to the American insurer Arch Capital, registered in Bermuda, totalling EUR 475 million. As a result, Natixis became a minority shareholder and announced its withdrawal from the board of directors. I recall that Coface, the Compagnie française d'assurance pour le commerce étrangère, is a credit insurance company whose main mission is to help companies develop to export by ensuring the risk of insolvency of their customers. The company played a major role in French economic development abroad by being, until 2017, the state operator in this field. It claims 50,000 customers, more than 4100 employees and a presence in 70 countries, in support of its ambition to become the most agile international credit insurance partner, although being far behind Euler Hermès, the industry leader. In addition to Coface's seat in my constituency, I have two concerns about this divestiture: first, I note that the massive support from the state to companies has significantly reduced the risk factor for insurance and that Coface, whose assets will now be located in Bermuda, has been able to make profits and distribute dividends. On the other hand, the sale of Coface represents a significant loss for our economic development strategy, at a time when our export efforts are essential for recovery. What measures does the State, which has already begun to mobilise Bpifrance, intend to take to consolidate France's position in an area crucial to its economic sovereignty?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u169	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u170	Indeed, Natixis announced the disposal of 29.5% of Coface's capital to the US insurer Arch Capital. Natixis retains 12.2% of the capital but will no longer be represented on Coface's board of directors. The U.S. insurer stated that it was a long-term strategic investment and that the proposed transaction would have no impact on either Coface's employees or Arch's employees. There is therefore no concern to have, on the contrary: this transfer shows that France remains an attractive country for foreign investment and is ready to participate in such operations. I hear that France would have suddenly renounced its attractiveness or to work with other foreign partners: proof is given that this is not the case.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u171	We come to the questions of the Republican Group. Mr Eric Woerth has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u172	Current accounts are brimming with liquidity, resulting in a considerable increase in savings: according to the Bank of France's forecasts, it will amount to almost EUR 200 billion by the end of 2021. During the 2008 crisis, banks were the problem – at least part of the problem – in terms of financing the economy; Today, as has been said on several occasions here, they are part of the solution, in particular because the EMPs transit through them. The banking system is itself very popular, both in France and in Europe, unlike other countries, where banks have begun to raise fees on dormant deposits. What initiatives will you take to circulate this money so that it is useful to the economy? In a crisis like the one we are going through, we must indeed circulate the cash, which is frozen for precautionary or other reasons. A common sense solution to improve the flow of funds would be to significantly ease the rules governing donations. Funds accumulated in bank accounts could also be allowed to be invested in financial products. I had proposed the creation of a state-guaranteed financial product – because, in these matters, it must always intervene to one degree or another – a "C booklet" that would be a safe haven for a number of savers. It is therefore not a question of directing such savings towards consumption, but of increasing the capacity to invest in equity.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u173	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u174	This is a fundamental issue emerging from the crisis. The French have in fact saved massively: 120 billion euros of additional savings at the time I speak to you, and the forecast of 200 billion that you indicate for the end of 2021 is quite consistent. The whole question is to direct this savings in favour of the French economy and companies. It is a matter of mobilising it not to place it on a new product, but to irrigate the economy and, consequently, to promote employment, which is the top priority. The French economy must reboot strongly – and it will – and create jobs. In the first place, I therefore strongly repeat that we permanently rule out any taxation of savings by the French – that there is no ambiguity on this subject – in the same way that we exclude any taxation of the current accounts of the French. Some object to me that negative interest rates are expensive for banks and that we should therefore be able to tax the current accounts of the French: no! France is already characterised by the highest level of taxation in all developed countries. Let us therefore simply reason: with such a level of taxation, our objective must be to reduce taxes and taxes, certainly not to increase them. Secondly, under the Pact law for which you voted, President Woerth, we have made available to the French a number of products that allow them to invest their money in the real economy, in SMEs in particular – and the results are there! Example: the share savings plan. I've always been told the PEA wasn't working. However, I note that 800,000 PEA have been opened since we simplified this scheme. Finally, in order to circulate money to the French, consideration must be given to simplifying measures that allow money to be passed on to their children or grandchildren. I personally support the creation of such mechanisms, especially as they will support young people. We are working on it and will be making proposals soon.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u175	Mr Eric Woerth has the floor on a second question.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u176	I would point out that Book C would be business-oriented. My second question concerns a subject which, if it seems more technical, has considerable implications: what happens to the resolution on prudential rules that we voted in January in this House? The Basel agreements, which emerged from the G20 and increased to a very high level during the 2008 crisis, have become binding and have strengthened the soundness of the banking system; We benefit from it today. The changes made to the Basel system in 2017 should lead to the transposition of European rules. This is no more than the sovereignty of the European banks and the French banks. This crisis has led everyone on these benches to ask themselves questions of sovereignty, even if the answers are different. All the groups in the Assembly, even the majority group, voted in favour of this resolution, in which we asked the Government to assess the macroeconomic consequences of these changes on the European banking system, in particular on the French banking system, in comparison with other banking systems, in particular the American banks. Such an assessment seems to me to be even more necessary in the wake of this crisis, which will require more banking systems and financing systems, which are very different on both sides of the Atlantic Ocean, not to mention Asia. What was the fate of this resolution, by which the National Assembly almost unanimously asked you for a better assessment of prudential rules?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u177	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u178	By definition, we respect and implement a resolution voted almost unanimously by parliamentarians. We have no concern about the level of capitalisation and equity of French banks. They are solid, they have resisted the crisis well. As you said yourself, while they were the problem in 2008, today they are the solution in many ways. As for the Basel III scheme, which is the subject of a Franco-German agreement, the question of transposing the Directive into French law arises. For my part, I would like, in accordance with the above-mentioned resolution, to update the impact assessment. I am therefore very clear: we are in favour of updating the study on the impact of the Basel III rules on all European banks, in particular on French banks. We cannot act as if there had not been a major economic crisis and do not measure the impact of prudential rules on banks' ability to lend to SMEs, to speak very concretely.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u179	We turn to questions from the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats. Mr. Patrick Loiseau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u180	In its report issued on 19 February, the mission on economic justice found that small businesses, traders, artisans, independents, farmers and associations generally did not use amicable procedures, which could protect them when their situation deteriorated. I broadly agree with the recommendations contained in this report, such as the establishment of an effective tool for informing entrepreneurs, the early detection of business difficulties and the promotion of support and prevention procedures – this is indeed essential. However, while the health situation continues to deteriorate, the threat of a massive increase in the number of balance sheet deposits is still hovering on entrepreneurs. Alerted by many players in my constituency, I would like to ask you about the possibility of creating an unprecedented system of economic security for businesses. This "covid -19 pre-deposit unit" would be modelled on the model of preventing the over-indebtedness of individuals with the Banque de France and would help to combat the economic but also psychological distress that threatens entrepreneurs. It would be a gateway, a dejudicatory sas, unlike the psychological aid scheme for acutely-delayed entrepreneurs – APESA – made available to commercial courts, which often favours balance sheet deposits. The creation of an emergency cell would also make it possible to adapt state aid to each situation, while preserving the effectiveness of all our schemes, such as the EMPs, which would be null and void if they resulted in massive balance sheets. This cell would allow, on the basis of specific criteria, to sort between admissible and non-eligible files. Minister, you have demonstrated your empathy and technical mastery of the subject; Do you intend to create, in accordance with the recommendations of the mission on economic justice, such a unit that would have the great advantage of constituting an alternative solution?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u181	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u182	The best answer lies in all the support mechanisms we have set up, in particular the solidarity fund and the state-guaranteed loan. I have also created a "weak signals" system within the Directorate-General for Public Finance to identify and alert companies in a timely manner. If you have further and more detailed proposals, we are fully prepared to consider them and, if necessary, to act on them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u183	Mr Jean-Paul Mattei has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u184	Minister, I will ask two questions. The first concerns the EMP, about which the website of the Ministry of Economy, on page 24 of the "Frequently Asked Questions", refers in these terms to the insurance borrower: "It is accepted that the professional or the executive may request or be offered, but not imposed, to take out a death insurance. In this case, in order to be covered, the professional or undertaking benefiting from an EMP will have to pay insurance premiums, including during the first year of deferral. » The payment of such an insurance premium often exceeds the amount of interest paid under an EMP. According to information coming back from the field, some banks would require the subscription of borrower insurance as a condition of obtaining the loan. Could you confirm that this insurance remains optional and that banks cannot condition the granting of these guaranteed cash loans up to 90% on the subscription of a borrower insurance? My second question concerns student loans. In your answer of December 3, 2020 to a question from Senator Yves Détraigne, which referred to the growing concern of students about the repayment of their loans in a context where finding a job is an almost impossible mission for them, you indicated that there are mechanisms in place for lending to individuals and that in practice, given the context, the Government expects lending institutions to consider with the greatest benevolence the requests of their clients. Could we not find a more systematic and secure mechanism for students, possibly with a state guarantee, as has been done for companies?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u185	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u186	I repeat that we are not at the end of the proposals that can be made for students in difficulty, whose situation you rightly stress. Some have made loans and may find it difficult to repay them at a time when available jobs and internships are no longer available. I am, once again, open to all proposals in this area and ready to study them very constructively. I also confirm that borrower insurance is not an obligation to have access to the State-guaranteed loan. The right must be respected and it is not possible for a company to be denied access to the loan for not having subscribed to borrower insurance. The latter is a faculty, not an obligation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u187	Mr. Patrick Loiseau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u188	Minister, with the containment of the covid-19 crisis, you set up a whole panel of business aid, doing what could be expected of a responsible government. We thank you for that. You have also asked the banks, who have decided to participate widely in this national effort, as well as the insurances, which have been much more reluctant, before finally accepting a financial effort of 800 million euros, which is very little compared to the colossal amounts to be taken into account. With the second wave of the epidemic, you have expanded the possibility for companies to contract a state-guaranteed loan until June 2021, at the expense of banks to be more flexible by giving companies time and by postponing the repayments for one more year for the most fragile of them. For the future, you have expressed the hope that insurance can cover this new risk associated with health disasters. Companies, especially the smaller ones, must be able to ensure that they are able to prevent problems which will not fail to return in the coming years. We need to find a new insurance mechanism. Not all the contours are yet known, but it seems desirable that this mechanism be backed up in part by a State guarantee, as is the case, in particular, for natural disasters. The aid could be capped or flat-rate and would take into account only part of the cost of claims, and insurers would have to bear part of the losses. This suggests that risk sharing between insurers and the state should be introduced. Another question that remains outstanding: will this new insurance be compulsory? Can you inform us of the exact measures expected by the Government, as well as of the progress made in this regard with the insurance companies and the various parties concerned?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u189	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u190	I have already spoken on this subject. We turned the question in all directions and worked a lot on it, but a mandatory scheme has a very high cost for companies. We had the choice between a mandatory pandemic insurance system, which would be accompanied by a very high rate for SMEs, and a scheme that would remain optional. That is the last formula we have chosen. This scheme is, in fact, inspired by the one that existed for farmers, who have the possibility of setting aside savings under very advantageous conditions to enable SMEs to cope with the risk of pandemics. As I speak to you, and having studied this issue for almost a year in the slightest detail, this is the best solution we have found that is suitable for SMEs and companies threatened by a pandemic.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u191	We come to the questions of the Socialist and Related Group. Mr Alain David has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u192	The situation in the banking and insurance sectors is not exactly comparable. The health crisis has revealed some shortcomings in the large French and European banks, although the four main listed establishments have rather resisted more than their European competitors. Thus, BNP Paribas, Crédit Agricole, Société Générale and Natixis' cumulative net income remained positive, to 9.5 billion euros in 2020, but it is halved compared to 18 billion euros in 2019. Insurers are often presented as one of the great winners of the pandemic, with large distance selling companies. At the time of the budget review, our honourable senators had passed an amendment to involve insurance companies in the effort to support our economy. Thus, an exceptional contribution based on premiums paid under insurance contracts had been envisaged. In any event, the insurers should have considered, as some mutuals did after the sharp reduction in disintegration in the first quarter, during the first confinement, a reduction in their premiums in 2021, which was clearly not the case. At the very least, we would have hoped, as the CPRA had advocated, that insurers would not distribute dividends in 2020. Again, this has not been the case. What measures does the Government envisage in order to encourage assurances to take their fair part in the fight against the consequences of the crisis?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u193	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u194	I am not here to defend one or the other, but to defend the general interest. However, I would point out that an exceptional levy was made on insurers in order to compensate for the fact that health expenditure had been lower in 2020 and 2021, amounting to a total of EUR 1.5 billion. This sample made enough ink flow so I could call him back. In addition, insurers contributed EUR 400 million to the Solidarity Fund. Finally, they made €2 billion in investments in SMEs and the French economy. I therefore understand your concern, but it seems that we have responded to it with the three measures I have just mentioned.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u195	Mrs Isabelle Santiago has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u196	With EUR 1850 billion for the European Central Bank's Pandemic Emergency Purchase Programme, EUR 1500 billion for the equivalent US plan and EUR 2400 billion for the ECB's asset purchase programme, monetary quasi-creation through quantitative easing measures is massive, even though it remains below the monetary creation of private banks. If no serious economist establishes a direct link between the monetary creation of central banks and inflation, the terms of distribution of this new currency, i.e. the redemption of financial securities, fuel the risk of inflating the price of these securities, and hence the risks of financial bubbles in secondary financial markets. For example, private debt increased by 10% in Europe and 15% in France, with more than 175 billion euros in one year. This is a very worrying sign that the Bank of France and the Conseil national de la productiveité, which is not suspected of heterodoxy, are concerned in their January report. Credit rating agencies note that the volume of debt that can soon be degraded is more than €200 billion. However, banks' prudential obligations were somewhat relaxed in the summer of 2020, which is important because large banks can themselves assess their own level of risk in order to circumvent the Basel III rules. We have not learned the lessons of 2008 and are running straight to a repetition, however, that States will not be able to deal with the damage, which has also been caught up in the aftermath of the health and economic crisis. Will we be able to resist the next financial crisis that could bring down banks and contaminate the real economy? I'm afraid not, and I'm not the only one. What do you think, Minister?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u197	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u198	I would like to reassure you that we do not have any particular concerns about this at the moment. On the other hand, you are right to stress the importance of the funds raised on the markets, particularly by the states, but this has been done for the benefit of the taxpayer. We raised more than EUR 290 billion in debt last year, at an average rate of -0.13%, thanks to the European Central Bank's very accommodative monetary policy. Ultimately, the burden of debt is cheaper for the taxpayer, which is good news. We are all fully aware that this cannot last forever, but can be satisfied with the way in which the central banks, the European Central Bank and the states responded to the crisis by agreeing to debt to protect themselves and doing so at the lowest possible cost. I am convinced that it was the right policy, which learned from the mistakes we made between 2008 and 2010, where we did not have the same reaction and suffered a much stronger economic impact. Now it is up to us to ensure, in the wake of the crisis, that healthy growth, jobs and public finances are restored.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u199	We come to the questions of the Group of the European People's Party. Mrs Patricia Lemoine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u200	Minister, because the crisis has not hit our financial system but the real economy, the banking sector has been able to meet to support our businesses and employees. As such, from the outset, banks have put on the table various measures, such as deferred repayments of loans, and have also been at the heart of the government machinery, notably with the EMP, which has been heavily solicited. However, there are still significant concerns about those who will, in a way, be the economic forces of tomorrow: students. For them, as we know, the cost of living is increasing. Indeed, many schools charge very large fees and the cost of housing is very heavy for young people. Many of them use summer jobs, partial activity or paid internships to cope with them. However, the health crisis has had a strong impact on this market: the supply of summer jobs and internships has decreased considerably last year and is likely to be just as limited again this year, given the doubts that still weigh on the health situation, which leads many students to resort to bank loans. This resulted in a double-digit increase in student loan applications. In the face of uncertainty about the prospects for a short-term exit from the crisis, strengthening student support must be one of our priorities, or their debt will explode even before they enter a labour market which, as we know, is likely to be very tense in the coming months. Minister, I know your commitment to the cause of young people. Can you tell us on a few tracks the Government and the banking sector are working to improve the financial support of students and prevent the significant risk of default of repayment that is hovering over them for the next few years?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u201	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u202	We pay the utmost attention to this major issue. For the moment, our regular contacts with the banks have not revealed any particular tensions regarding the repayment of student loans, but we will of course continue to monitor the situation very closely. In addition, in 2021 I strengthened the State-guaranteed student loan guarantee by 32 million, which can reach up to 15,000 euros: we will grant 675 million euros in this way to 67500 beneficiaries. If we see an increased need for this guarantee for student loans, we will respond, of course.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u203	The floor is for Mr Vincent Ledoux, for the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u204	Mr Minister, this morning you presented the participatory lending and bonds mechanisms that will help to strengthen the balance sheet of companies weakened by the crisis by providing them with EUR 20 billion of new financing. This is a considerable step forward in terms of investment, innovation and wealth creation: we welcome it. The State, which will guarantee these loans and bonds, has done much since the beginning of the crisis; Nevertheless, everyone must bring his stone to the building to prepare, accompany, initiate the recovery of the economy, and give meaning to this whole process. As long-term investors, insurers have a major role to play in reviving, supporting the real economy, our SMEs and mid-cap companies. In this sense, the Fédération française de l'assurance and the Caisse des dépôts have created an investment programme with the explicit title: "Insurers-Caisse des dépôts Relance durable France". The ambition of this programme, which covers more than EUR 2 billion, is indeed to promote a sustainable economic recovery, thanks to better account being taken of the extra-financial criteria. This is exactly what I wanted: the aim is to invest in SMEs and ETIs, as well as in companies in the health and tourism sectors. We can only welcome everyone's participation in the collective effort to build the French economy of tomorrow today. Minister, can you make an initial assessment of this program? Many of its funds benefit from the "Relaunch" label: can you tell us how many funds are already labeled in this way, for what total outstanding amounts, and what objective you want to achieve in the long run?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u205	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u206	Insurers have indeed committed a collective investment effort of more than EUR 2 billion, mainly in equity. This effort is divided into three compartments: 1.3 billion for SMEs and ETIs; 200 million for the tourism sector, with a fund managed by a crowdfunding platform; 780 million for the French and European health sectors. I referred this morning to the results of the "Relaunch" label, on the occasion of my presentation of participatory loans and bonds. We currently have 150 funds labeled, representing an outstanding amount of €25 billion invested 70% in French companies, 55% in SMEs and ETIs. You see it: it is a huge success, which will finance the revival of the French economy.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u207	We have completed the questions on the role of banks and insurance in the crisis of covid-19.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1188.u208	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: - Questions on the explosion of poverty following the covid -19 pandemic; - Questions on the report of the commission of inquiry to measure and prevent the effects of the covid-19 crisis on children and youth: how to avoid a sacrificed generation? The meeting is adjourned.
