ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u1	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the second part of the finance bill for 2022 (No. 4482, 4524).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u2	We discuss the examination of credits for school education (No 4524, Volume III, Annex 23; No 4597, Volume II). Mrs Osson, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u3	It is with the sense of duty and the awareness of the requirement of success for all the children of our country that I have the pleasure of presenting, on behalf of our committee, for the last time during this legislature, the credits of the School Education mission. Allow me, once again, to pay tribute to all the education staff who, every day, carry out a mission of prime importance. Of course, I had the memory of Samuel Paty – we had learned of his assassination while we were sitting in a public session – and I want to salute his memory. Ladies and gentlemen, the education of our children deserves more than polemics. I therefore welcome the relative serenity with which we examined the appropriations of the mission in the Committee on Finance last week. No controversy, but pragmatism: the budget of the School Education mission is on the rise again this year, confirming the upward trend since our majority came to the responsibilities four and a half years ago: outside the appropriations of the Recovery Plan, the budget of the Ministry of National Education, Youth and Sports is up 2.5% from 2021 to reach €76.3 billion. This last quinquennium budget continues and amplifies the projects we voted for last year and previous ones. I will only come back here to some of the most significant expenditures. First, the revalorisations of staff committed in 2021 and 2022 represent an overall envelope of almost €1.2 billion. Far from political forums, we have made the upgrading of national education professions a priority. What has been done within the framework of the Grenelle de l'éducation has become and will continue to become reality everywhere. For example, the monthly net remuneration of teachers at the very beginning of their careers will increase from 1,700 euros in 2020 to nearly 1869 euros in 2022. This unprecedented effort will help make the teaching profession more attractive and bring France closer to European standards. Second, with regard to the number of teachers, in total and over five years, the ministry's jobs have been preserved and even slightly increased. In 2022, the employment pattern increased slightly with the creation of 50 administrative jobs. The employment ceiling changed favourably in 2022 with an additional 950 full-time equivalents (FTEs) worked. Despite the decline in the number of pupils, all jobs are maintained in primary school; In the second level, the creation of 350 jobs on the Life of the Student programme is planned in the autumn of 2022 in order to strengthen the support of the pupils and implement the Social Mixed plan. Thanks to these enhanced resources, the year 2022 will see the completion of the major reforms implemented under the 2019 law for a school of trust, including the doubling of the major section classes, preparatory courses (CP) and first year elementary courses (CE1) as a priority education network (REP) and reinforced priority education network (REP+), which is already being implemented, and the gradual capping of 24 students from these classes outside the REP. Thirdly, in 2022 the emphasis was placed on equal opportunities, with the extension of existing educational schemes, such as the "Devoirs faits" or the "Cordées de la succès", which would concern 200000 pupils instead of 80000 in 2021, the creation of new schemes for reading in schools – with the passing of school culture – or the digital school, but also the experimentation of local accompanying contracts in order to meet the specific needs of the socially disadvantaged territories and publics located outside the priority education networks. Fourthly, the development of inclusive schools and the reception of children with disabilities in schools is a priority for us; Again this year, these provisions are at the heart of the finance bill. In total, in 2022, the ministry will mobilise more than 3.5 billion euros for inclusive school, 211 million more than in 2021. Between 2017 and 2022, this budget will have increased by €1.4 billion for the inclusion of students with disabilities, with the creation of nearly 27,000 jobs and a wage bill that will have more than doubled. The budget for inclusive school will create 4000 new jobs for students with disabilities (AESH) at the start of the 2022 school year, bringing their staff to over 80000 ETPTs. In conclusion, I would like to say a few words about agricultural technical education, which is of particular interest to me – as it is important to all Members, as the debates in committee have shown. Staff costs excluding special assignment account (SAA) Pensions are provided for €761 million. Most of the increase in the wage bill comes from the measures of the Grenelle de l'éducation. In addition, the boarding allowance and student grants are extended, resulting in an increase of EUR 16.3 million in the corresponding appropriations. I am very pleased to note that the discussions which took place last year and which have led to interventions from all quarters of this House, following one of my amendments, have made it possible, thanks to the work done in full cooperation with the Government, to achieve this general increase in appropriations. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister for National Education, Youth and Sport, let us keep measures to facilitate education and in the period that is generally opening up. As legislators, we have the responsibility for long time; As rapporteur, it seems to me that sooner or later – the sooner the better – we will have to have a law for the programming of national education. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] I hope that our debates of the day will be guided by a spirit of pragmatism, consistent with the PLF for 2022 as a whole, but also with the last four financial laws and the strategy chosen for school education.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u4	Mrs Cécile Rilhac, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u5	I want to salute him: the last budget of the school education mission of this legislature is still in a downward trajectory and amplifies the increase in resources. This budget, like last year's, is part of the somewhat special context of the pandemic. As the Special Rapporteur pointed out, the mission's six programmes are increasing at a constant level. I would like to welcome this increase, which shows that the Government and our majority once again regard education and youth as a priority for the future of the country. I would like to highlight the progress made in many areas. The reception of pupils with disabilities has been further improved through the completion of the deployment of the local inclusive support centres (PIAL) and the strengthening of the status of accompanying students with disabilities (AESH). The duplication of the classes of CP and CE1 in the priority education networks REP and REP+ has been completed and extends to the major kindergarten section. Similarly, the size of the large section, CP and EC1 classes is now limited to 24 students throughout the country. Local accompaniment contracts will be tested in three academies to support institutions such as "orphan" schools, or high schools that are not in a priority education network but have similar needs. More than ever, the school must be a privileged place for the development and acquisition of the rules of our collective life and the values of the Republic. It promotes the mastery of basic knowledge in primary education; In secondary education, it develops the spirit of analysis as well as criticism and offers the freedom to build a chosen future. The health crisis and the resulting confinements highlighted the importance of school attendance, the importance of links between students and their teachers, and the social links between peers. Finally, it provided a new way of dialogue between parents, teachers and children. The development of digital education should thus lead to an improvement in learning conditions, the monitoring of pupils' schooling and an approach adapted to each, in both rural and urban areas, thus contributing to the republican imperative of equal access to education. I therefore welcome the extension of the experimentation of digital educational territories to ten new departments. The crisis has also shown the importance of physical and cultural activities. The place of school sport is strengthened with a view to organizing the Olympic and Paralympic Games with the creation of a 2024 generation label and the "30 minutes of physical activity per day at school" plan. Culture is also a high priority. The cultural sector has suffered a severe crisis. But the shock is also educational, because the crisis has prevented what makes the very essence of culture: the encounter between the public and the artists or authors. I would therefore point out that EUR 45 million is allocated in this budget to the development of cultural passes, complementing other mechanisms for promoting culture in schools, such as the "100% EAC in school" objective for artistic and cultural education (EAC), the Choral Plan and the return to music. Unprecedented ways have been put in place to train teachers in five areas: reading, singing, watching, speaking and developing critical thinking with media training. All these schemes aim to ensure that 100 per cent of pupils benefit from cultural or artistic activity during their schooling. The priority given to primary education is maintained, with inequalities to be addressed in the first year of schooling. However, secondary school is not abandoned. This budget for school education for 2022 provides for the continuation of the State's efforts in favour of national education personnel, in order to recognize their tasks and to strengthen the attractiveness of the teaching professions. These appropriations will, in addition to the measures to raise wages, make it possible for the State to contribute to the financing of the supplementary social protection of all the officials of the Ministry on 1 January 2022 for an amount of EUR 200 million. They will be accompanied by complementary measures such as improving access to housing and developing the offer of cultural, social, sporting, tourist and leisure services within the framework of the Préau association. Here we can talk about the creation of a genuine national education works council. A total of EUR 726 million is therefore planned to recognise the commitment of staff and to translate the investment effort in education into practice once again. Over the period 2017-2022, for all staff of the Ministry responsible for national education, the cost of implementing the Protocol on career paths, careers and remuneration and the future of the civil service (PPCR) will amount to approximately EUR 1 billion for 1 million beneficiaries. You will have understood that, ladies and gentlemen, even if there is work left, this budget goes in the right direction. It is commensurate with the challenges of the 21st century school of the Republic. It draws the consequences of the pandemic and allows for the deployment of the measures undertaken.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u6	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] I therefore express an opinion on behalf of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education in favour of its adoption.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u7	We come to the statements of the spokespersons of the groups. Mr Frédéric Reiss has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u8	"To govern is to foresee; and to predict nothing is to run to its loss," said Émile de Girardin, the contemporary of Victor Hugo who was deputy of the Bas-Rhin under the Second Republic, therefore between the monarchy of July and the Second Empire, and who has always refused to violate freedoms. Perhaps he would have shouted at the scandal when he learned that a young person was deprived of any sporting activity on the grounds that he was not vaccinated. At school, he can play sports with his comrades, but at the sports club, with those same comrades, it's impossible. There is therefore the question of the connection between the Ministry of Sports of Associative Life and the Ministry of National Education. As a journalist, Emile de Girardin invented the novels. The history of the school is not one, but it is in perpetual evolution. The budget of the School Education Mission is the first in the State. It is experiencing an increase of 1.6 billion euros that could be welcomed; But, looking more closely, the question of the efficiency of the school system remains, and the excuse for the legacy no longer needs to be. In committee, Minister, you have tried to show that everything has been better since 2017 by clearly standing out from what was done under the previous quinquennium. However, the accounting approach is the same: an increase of 6,009 billion euros in payment appropriations opened from 2013 to 2017, and an increase of 6,237 billion euros from 2018 to 2022, i.e., I mentioned in committee, 12,246 billion euros – we are not far from 13 billion – of progress in ten years. I understand that the draftsman welcomes this increase in appropriations, but, she wrote in her report, "thinking must be pursued in the context of an overall approach of the agent and not simply in terms of remuneration". Indeed, she adds, "the school of the Republic cannot adequately meet the expectations of students, families and the nation if its staff is not considered to be of fair value." [[Smile on the benches of the Government]] I concede that certain guidelines are welcome, such as the emphasis on priority education, the rebalancing of resources between primary and secondary education and the support of children with disabilities – guidelines for which the Republican Group has often served as a guide. We are all defending an inclusive school, but the lack of AESH is obvious. Some children sometimes have only four hours of accompaniment and the coordination of the work of the PIAL leaves to be desired. The number of amendments tabled on this subject is also revealing. The health crisis has exacerbated inequalities, particularly in the area of disability and in general for disadvantaged populations. In this area, I would point out that the private sector has taken its full part without having the means of the priority education and I would point out that, for a full-time period, the substitutes of the private institutions under contract have a remuneration of 800 euros gross less than that of the substitutes of the public sector. It's important on a career scale. Therefore, increases in appropriations under Actions 01 and 02 of Programme 139 are welcome. Agricultural technical education also deserves our full attention, especially as its numbers are increasing. This teaching is a major challenge for the maintenance and development of rational agriculture, which respects the environment and the food security of consumers. As for vocational education, it must be valued by opening up our education system and by developing apprenticeships in school status. The conditions for integration into employment, which the Court of Auditors said were disappointing, would be improved. During the health crisis, a very large majority of teachers, from kindergarten to university, were able to cope in an exemplary way with new situations. We must thank them for this while asking the question of digital in school. The general view is that digital is an educational medium and not an educational actor: one does not replace a teacher with digital ones, the unions who were interviewed during the preparation of the budget discussion have estimated. The question of training in this field must be clearly raised and the workshops of the Canopé network must be maintained at departmental level. The fact-finding mission on the legal and statutory framework of hybrid and distance education should inform us on this subject. School principals and principals will soon benefit from a tailor-made leadership position that should facilitate the fulfilment of their specific mission. We voted in favour of the Rilhac bill creating the position of principal or principal, while wondering if we did not stay in the middle of the ford. We will see at the end of the discussion of the text. Finally, let me ask myself about the performance of the education system. I have carefully examined the decree of 25 January 2021 laying down the procedures for certificates of proficiency in second degree teaching (CAPES). It is an opportunity to evoke the attractiveness of the teaching profession, which is widely taken into account in this mission, but also the solid disciplinary knowledge that is essential for teachers to establish their authority. In the case of recruitment, however, the form often takes precedence over the substance. The natural authority of a master is based on good disciplinary control, let us not forget. Restoring the authority of teachers, reconnecting with the transmission of fundamentals, is the fight of tomorrow's school. Recalling its reservation about the reform of the high school and the vagaries of Parcoursup, noting the rise of religious fundamentalism and the persistence of school violence, deploring the lamentable state of school medicine and regretting that the school is no longer able to guarantee the same level of education for all our children, the LR group will vote against this budget – following the next issue.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u9	Mrs Geraldine Bannier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u10	Despite the unprecedented health crisis, and thanks to the exceptional mobilisation of teaching, technical and administrative staff, the objectives of the mandate – raising the overall level and reducing social inequalities – have never been lost sight of. The Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats are pleased about this. The expenditure gain per student in the first degree is 3.69% for 2020, reflecting the choice – sensible – to act as early as possible. Another example is the lowering of the age of compulsory education to three years, as well as the doubling of classes in priority education networks and the limitation of the number of students outside priority education to 24 years. Let me remind you, in this regard, that ensuring better working conditions through a bearable threshold of the number of pupils per class is also a legitimate demand of secondary schools; adolescence is an age that requires the greatest attention and it is also the delicate age where orientation is emerging. I would also like to take advantage of the review of the finance bill to reiterate the importance of the priority given to reading. I also note with satisfaction the mention of a new kindergarten programme aimed at the enrichment of the lexicon and the first structuring of the syntax. These are two long-standing points of fragility on which it is imperative to take action throughout school to better equip our young people for the future. Of course, progress in inclusive school – 71.67 per cent of pupils enrolled in ordinary schools in more than 11 years, increased efforts in favour of localised units for school inclusion (ULIS), the creation of 45 autism teaching units – are noteworthy. We obviously remain, like all, attentive to the qualitative leap achieved and to be confirmed. In committee, Mr Minister, you highlighted the budgetary efforts made to meet the training needs and the precariousness of the AESH. You rightly reminded them of the need to provide them with a quota of hours to improve their wages. The generalisation by 2022 of artistic and cultural actions for each student, the deployment of the school culture pass – 45 million euros for 2022 in complementarity with the current pass reserved for the over 18 years –, the offer of less common but rich and promising teachings – languages and cultures of antiquity, digital and computer science, arts – and the strengthening of the system of the Cordées de la succès, of which 200000 pupils will be beneficiaries compared to 80000 previously, are all elements that can correct the inequalities of destiny and enable each student to succeed regardless of his or her environment of origin. For a moment, I will stop at the 5000 additional places scheduled for the re-entry of 2021 in the first year of the advanced technician's certificate (BTS) and in additional local initiative training (FCIL). They should respond to the desire for a short track and facilitate the entry of young people into the labour market. In this regard, I would like to recall the particular success of the agricultural education institutions which, thanks to the training offered from the fourth class to the agricultural BTS (BTSA), offer their 155000 students and 42600 apprentices real prospects and well-lighted by the laventureduvivant.fr platform and by the communication campaign # EntrepreneursDuVivant. As a reminder, agricultural education needs to be well associated, within the same time frame, with the announcements of national education. Finally, with regard to the EUR 726 million allocated to the upgrading of national education staff, the step taken, particularly for teachers at the beginning of their careers, is, like pre-vocationalisation, an imperative response to the acute recruitment crisis. But, as you said in committee, the revalorisation of all these personnel will have to be continued. Education is first, especially when misinformation and mistrust in the face of scientific truths are instilled in minds. But the idea is widespread among students and shared between parents that being a teacher, "it pays badly". It is something that hardly helps to translate the idea that education is the priority and the teacher a referent, carrying a sure knowledge. I also know from experience that, unlike their young colleagues, teachers who have 15 or 20 years of careers, who have made the choice, despite the difficulties, demands and increasing pressures of society, to remain, to struggle, to educate everywhere and all, have never seen their wages improved. One day, however, teachers will have to return to their primary role in society and end the cartoons heard everywhere on the so-called ease of their mission, which is in fact extremely arduous and fundamental. The vocation does not exclude remuneration that reflects the importance attached to them. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem and Agir groups as well as on some benches of the LaREM group]] In conclusion, as you will have understood, our group approves this last budget of the mandate and hopes that the actions undertaken can be pursued, with the aim of seeing a better educated, well-supervised youth – a major and essential guarantee of the country's growth.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u11	Mrs Sylvie Tolmont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u12	The finance bill for 2022 closed the five-year story of the country's education policy marking a major weakening of the Republican school. During these years, nothing of the previous quinquennium will have found thanks to your eyes – and it could not ultimately be otherwise given the conditions for the arrival of your majority in power. To justify the new world, the old one had to be cut down. This has been done with efficiency and method. You have thus dismantled the reform of school rhythms, which, in particular, allowed free access to artistic, cultural and sporting practices capable of reducing social inequalities between students. In the same way, you have removed the "more teachers than classrooms" system, which the educational teams have supported because of the collaboration it promoted between teachers. You have abandoned the reform of the college, which aimed, among other things, to put social and school mixes in schools and to offer a second language to all students as early as the fifth grade. With this last five-year finance bill, your balance sheet, beyond ever-equalled political communication, will be that of a number of regressions. Over the past five years, inequalities at school have increased as the rate of supervision has collapsed. And the duplication of classes in the first few years, whose effectiveness remains largely to be demonstrated, will not, alas, suffice to stop them. Thus, the text definitely enshrines the significant decrease in the number of teachers: with the abolition of 410 FTEs in secondary education and 16 FTEs in agricultural education added to the 7482 posts abolished in the second degree since the beginning of the quinquennium, almost 8000 abolitions of posts can be brought to your credit, equivalent to 166 colleges. At the same time, however, the continuous increase in the number of pupils – by 3% per class between 2017 and 2021 in high schools – results in an average of more than 30 pupils per class. How to learn correctly under these conditions? Instead of spending year after year on extra hours that have never been spent, the school in the Republic needs a large multi-year recruitment plan, with real measures strengthening its attractiveness at a time when there is a worrying increase in the number of demeanors of teachers and a small number of candidates for competitions. While under the Dutch presidency, in partnership with the trade unions, we had put in place a protocol on career paths, careers and remuneration which improved teachers' careers as a whole, your government decided unilaterally, as soon as it was set up, to suspend it and freeze again the point of index. It will have taken 2021 and this PLF for you to take over this PPCR in the form of scattered bonuses, mainly concentrated on the beginnings of careers to the detriment of others, for an amount posted of 700 million euros which actually reduces to 400 million. For the rest of the school's staff, including school doctors and nurses, this budget is also not always commensurate with the acute needs and fragility of schools. As for the AESH, despite the revalorisation – we have been asking for it for several years with amendments – they remain in great precariousness, since they remain mostly recruited by short contracts that leave them below the poverty line. Your majority has favoured quantitative rather than qualitative. However, the successful inclusion of children with disabilities can only be achieved by taking into account the working conditions of those accompanying them. Finally, at a time when we can in turn take stock of your exercise, Minister, we believe that conveying the values of the Republic within the school is above all capable of establishing a real social dialogue that involves respect for its staff and not pursuing a policy of fait accompli or threat; This is not to ensure that the budget of the private school increases faster than that of the public school, as was the case during your fiscal year; It is a real desire to combat inequalities and to respond to the social crisis resulting from the health crisis by fighting for a real school mix, against inequalities between schools and territories, and not to adopt budgetary priorities favouring elite formations and the logic of competition and selection to the detriment of cooperation. The President of the Republic himself made the observation, on 12 October, at the presentation of his France 2030 plan, of an under-investment in education, the expenditure in this field having increased since 2017 from 6.8% of GDP to 6.6%. [[Ms. Muriel Ressiguier applauds]] Given that none of its amendments have been adopted in committee, the Socialist and Related Group will not support this budget, which is merely a reflection of a serious lack of ambition in education policy.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u13	Mr Pierre-Yves Bournazel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u14	The credits of the School Education Mission are on the rise. Since 2017, the school has been the mother of all reforms because it is at the heart of the action of the President of the Republic, the Government, the Minister of National Education and the majority. The school is at the heart of the Republican Pact and of equal opportunities: we fought for the individual emancipation of students, for secularism, for social and national cohesion and for the future development of students in society, thanks to the free choice of their professional path and the full exercise of their citizenship. In the end, Minister, the promise of the Enlightenment! It refers to a long project: yes, long time – we assume it! –, over several generations. This requires the unity of the nation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u15	Is that the government spokesman?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u16	I would like to say to our colleagues oppositions, in particular to those who belonged to the majority of François Hollande: do not be afraid to support action that serves the general interest, progress, the interests of our children and that of the school. What you wanted to do, we realized. I say to some Members of the Republican Group – not everyone – who are asking much more for national education, who are demanding additional teachers, nurses and nurses, that they are in total contradiction with their pre-election presidential candidates who propose the abolition of 250,000 civil servants and public servants between 2022 and 2027. Perhaps that means that our policy is fair and balanced. School is the priority of the quinquennium as in few quinquennats! Since we have a vision of the future of our society and want to give meaning to this future, we are looking to school! Equal opportunities has been at the heart of this public policy, particularly through the duplication of the CP and EC1 classes, which is bearing fruit. Indeed, we have given more to children who initially have less social and cultural capital. Children from the 18th, 19th or 20th arrondissements of Paris, but also from the Academy of Créteil, Perpignan, Montpellier, all over France, in a priority education zone, reinforced or not, the children of CM2 who have benefited from the reform since 2017, have the same level as those of the 7th and 16th arrondissements of the capital. Yes, the duplication of classes has been a reform for equal opportunities and social justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u17	You're gonna have to read Bourdieu again!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u18	For proof, the budget is increasing: an additional €1.9 billion for 2022. Since 2017, we have spent an additional 6 billion on the nation's first budget, that of national education. Equal opportunity is the duplication of classes, but it is also the acquisition of fundamentals – the ability to read, write and count – for all, without distinction as to origin, neighbourhood or social condition. We are extending this policy by also doubling the major kindergarten sections. But equality of opportunity is also the creation of 4000 additional jobs for accompanying students with disabilities.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u19	Payed below the poverty line!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u20	Yes, we act for an inclusive school. Yes, we consider teachers to be the architects of the modern world because they are the architects of tomorrow's world. They build the nation of tomorrow by transmitting knowledge to our children. That is why we have undertaken a substantial improvement in the remuneration of staff. And when I hear those who supported the government during François Hollande's quinquennium, I want to tell them: "What did you do between 2012 and 2017? »
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u21	We've created 600,000 posts, among other things.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u22	Together with the Grenelle de l'éducation, we have launched a re-evaluation plan for teachers: 400 million euros mobilised in 2021 and more than 700 million euros additional in 2022.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u23	For only 150 euros more, and not for everyone!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u24	We work for equal opportunities at the heart of the school when we open up ministries; It is very sensible, Mr Reiss, to unite the Ministry of National Education with the Ministry of Youth and Sports. We also open up when the Ministry of National Education, Youth and Sports works with the Ministry of Culture. Yes, we have a modern, new and fair vision of the future of the school. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] We still have so much to do together! We will continue this task, for our children, for teachers and for school. We know your determination and exemplary commitment to the school, Minister and Secretary of State for Priority Education, and we will vote with confidence on this budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u25	We must take him as the spokesman for the ministry!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u26	Who knows?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u27	He's applying, Minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u28	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u29	"The education of his people depends on the destiny of a country": I choose to open my remarks to this sentence of former British Prime Minister Benjamin Disraeli to underline an ideological agreement that we have shared with you throughout this quinquennium. Yes, it is necessary to invest in youth, especially in the fundamentals of their education, so that students have the necessary foundation to succeed in their education. This is how I welcome the increase again this year in the budget for school education, which includes more than welcome salary increases. As we were able to point out in committee, the issue of remuneration is obviously not the only one that interests us when we talk about the profession of teacher: the number of teachers, the organisation and the framework of work cannot be forgotten when many teachers face sometimes difficult or even dangerous working conditions – by saying this, I cannot have any thought for Samuel Paty. However, following the path you have set, Minister, to reach the 2000 euros net per month as the first salary is more than ever necessary to attract young people back to the fine teaching profession because, we are leaving very far in this field compared to the other countries of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD). However, we can regret that the achievement of the improvement objectives you have set must, once again, await a new presidential election. Moreover, while it is important to revive the attractiveness of the profession, we must not forget the professors already in office, sometimes for ten or twenty years, who must also benefit from a more ambitious wage policy. With regard to school principals, the Senate again last week, during the second reading of the bill establishing the office of principal or principal of school, adopted a measure requiring the State, and it alone, to make available to school principals, who would request it, sufficient resources. The Ministry must make this financial effort, since a shared responsibility with local and regional authorities in this area could create inequality between schools in different municipalities. This last budget of the legislature allows us to judge also the evolutions in the field of school inclusion. Minister, I must acknowledge that progress is undeniable: the hiring of an additional 4000 AESH in 2022 is welcome. Nevertheless, so much remains to be done. Mutualizations, which have become too numerous, create situations in which children are accompanied only a handful of hours a week, so much so that we are still far from being able to guarantee an inclusive school for all, as well as acceptable working conditions for the AESH. Better organisation, higher pay and a single contact person are what the AESHs are asking us to finally get out of this fragmented and incomplete system of work that does not provide them, on average, with a monthly wage of more than 800 euros. The IDU and independent group supports the initiative to grant REP and REP + bonuses to education assistants and the AESH, but is opposed to the funding of the private school. Again this year, the resources allocated to school medicine are insufficient. Yet, as my colleague Béatrice Descamps says, prevention, psychological support and support for sick children must once again be a priority of the school. Indeed, as much as access to education, medical care and follow-up is a vector of equal opportunities. In addition, nurses, psychologists and doctors cannot be left alone to deal with thousands of children. The question of the attractiveness of trades still arises here, and although the Grenelle de l'éducation has provided answers, more needs to be done, particularly for nurses. As you yourself have recognized in the committee, school health still has a lot of progress to make, especially with regard to the monitoring of children. Unfortunately, as we see in the news, school harassment is a scourge whose extent to which it causes damage to young people is misunderstood. So if we agree with all the proposals that have been presented to you in our colleague Erwan Balanant's parliamentary report, here I will only remember the lack of school psychologists on which we have been alerting you for a while. It is time to act, especially when we see the psychological impact of the covid-19 health crisis on children. There are still many projects to consolidate and strengthen this institution of the school, on which the future of our country depends in part. Aware of the improvements that have been made, IDU and independent Members will nevertheless remain attentive to the answers given during the debates.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u30	Mr Olivier Falorni has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u31	The budget for school education is the one that needs our most attention. The policy in this area is developing structural reforms for society as a whole and involves issues that go beyond the strict framework of the school. In the school of the Republic, there is obviously a question of teaching and knowledge, but also of reflection, critical thinking and values so that today's students become the enlightened citizens of tomorrow. A year after Samuel Paty's abhorrent terrorist assassination, how can we not have a thought for this dead teacher for wanting to pass on the freedom of expression and the values of our Republic? It forces us to demand even more. The first requirement concerns the quality of the teaching of secularism. I repeat, as the quinquennium comes to an end and the need for teachers to be better trained in secularism arises regularly in our debates. This budget contains a training plan to meet this imperative: it is encouraging, but we need to go faster and further. Personally, since your arrival on Rue de Grenelle, Minister, you have unquestionably defended with force, conviction and sincerity the republican and secular values that we share.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u32	It's a question of definition!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u33	We must train our teachers, protect them, support them, consider them and, above all, never again give them the feeling of being deprived of listening and isolated! These are the priorities that must guide us. You have attacked the deleterious "no wave", this cowardly and guilty blindness that has done so much harm to school and society. The "no wave" policy existed, minister, it existed! I saw her and suffered her myself as a teacher. I hope that it will be terminated. To be clear, it is better for national education to recognize clearly and honestly the number of incidents that occurred during the tribute to Samuel Paty to treat them firmly and intelligently than to say that everything went well, an attitude that leaves a double sense of impotence and impunity. Teachers' consideration also depends on the level of their remuneration. French teachers are among the least paid in Europe. Therefore, this budget for 2022 reflects the commitments of the Grenelle de l'Éducation, in the continuation of last year's first envelope devoted to salary adjustments. While the appropriations for this second instalment represent a larger amount than expected, our group regrets that the latter is financing lower premiums than those paid since last May. Above all, as the trade union organizations indicate, these bonuses will not replace a multi-year programming law promised by the Government before the health crisis, which would guarantee long-term wage increases, as well as better consideration of pension rights. Beyond the revalorisations, the question of staffing also arises. As last year, the increase in the first degree budget contrasts with the inverse trajectory imposed on the second degree. Already in 2020, our group deplored the fact that the increase in first-degree positions was achieved through a redeployment of 1,800 secondary school staff, which was compensated by overtime. This year, the stability of the number of posts in secondary education means that 350 teaching jobs have been abolished for 300 jobs as educational counsellors and 50 jobs as social workers or nurses. Our concern is the same with regard to agricultural education, which was abolished by 16 FTEs in 2022, even though the number of pupils is increasing. Our group will support amendments to restore them. On the other hand, we support the reforms undertaken by the Government since the beginning of the quinquennium in favour of priority education, particularly that of the duplication of classes in the REPs and REP+. Efforts in this direction must be continued: this is one of the most important decisions of your quinquennium. I would also like to welcome the measures taken in favour of the AESH – they are undeniable – even if it is necessary to go even further, Madam Secretary of State for Priority Education, Minister. [[Applause on the benches of the Action ens group]] I said it and said it again, teaching is the most important thing in the Republic. With this in mind, the national education budget is also the most important. Every political choice, every budgetary choice, indeed, has a considerable importance for our children, for our teachers, for our ability to make society. School is the condition for the fulfilment of our republican promise of freedom, equality and fraternity: let us never forget it so that the school of the Republic can live even better.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u34	Mrs Muriel Ressiguier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u35	The last five-year budget for the school education mission remains in the liberal ideological line in which the Government has been involved since the beginning of the legislature. Of course, the Mission's appropriations increase by 2.49% compared to last year, reaching EUR 55 billion, but without meeting the real needs of the school. The AESHs are thus kept in a precarious state, despite the introduction of a new salary scale. To the extent that many of these jobs are part-time jobs, the wages earned barely survive. In addition, the additional 4000 FTEs created for 2022 will be very insufficient – as you know – to meet real needs. In fact, 15,000 children were deprived of AESH last year, of which 1,000 were without any solution of schooling. In this regard, the generalisation of PIALs, which aim to save jobs in the face of the significant increase in notifications of the CDMH – departmental houses for disabled people – has contributed to the deterioration of the working conditions of the AESHs, which are led to accompany at the same time several students from different institutions. On the other hand, despite repeated demands and more than proven needs, the shortage of school doctors is not met: on the contrary, there are fifty-three fewer than last year. The difficulty in recruiting school doctors is partly due to the level of salary and the very large number of students to take care of, with only one practitioner having 46,000. More generally, as you announce a "historical upgrading" of teachers' salaries, teachers will still have to take their pains in patience. Indeed, when we look in detail at the 700 million euros you are announcing for this mission, we can see that only 260 million euros will actually be spent on this upgrading. To date, according to the OECD, France is still lagging behind the average in other countries, with a 7% lower salary for early-career teachers and 18% for those between 10 and 15 years of seniority. We are therefore still far from the goal announced following the Grenelle of education "to join the leading peloton of the OECD countries". On the other hand, you persist in the reform of the baccalaureate, while the introduction of continuous control has created an inequality between the students, who now hold a diploma that will no longer have the same value depending on the institution in which it was obtained. In addition, you continue to close professional high schools – thirty-four in four years – and you abolish teaching positions. You therefore seem to think that vocational lycées can gradually be replaced by the courses of apprenticeship by school. Instead of being put into competition, they should both be preserved and strengthened, in that they meet different needs. Here we find your vision of education, which too often boils down to the notion of employability – a vision also at work in higher education. You also put it into practice during the organisation of the first school-business university, in partnership with Veolia. Again this year, gifts at the private school continue, as you yourself acknowledge that the flow of students to these schools has stopped. Private funding, whether pre-elementary, elementary, college or high school, is increasing more than that of the public. As for job deletions, your logic is in the second degree, where 1354 jobs disappear, while the number of students is expected to increase by 23900. In the middle of all this, an island seems preserved in the Republican school: elementary school. In this area, you create 1,369 positions and double classes, which is a good thing. But this island is just a decoy intended to hide everything else. You will also destroy it in turn with, in the preamble, the experiment that will be carried out in Marseilles and which will authorize a school principal to recruit his own teaching teams, whether or not they hold them. What is involved with this experiment is the potential end of the current method of assigning teachers and, through it, of the link between the competition and the position. Basically, it is the status of teacher official that is being attacked here. If this experiment were widespread, then public schools would function like private schools under contract, which you do not currently assume. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and SOC groups. – Mrs Elsa Faucillon also applauds]] At the end of the quinquennium, you will have dangerously damaged the republican public school, occulting its emancipatory mission and strengthening social determinism. That is why the group La France insoumée will not vote for the credits of the School Education mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u36	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u37	Minister, as I have already told you in committee, the evasive and undocumented doubts and threats to teachers who, in your opinion, do not respect the values of the Republic are not only unfair, but also insulting for a profession whose expectations are also very high. The involvement of teachers with children in a public school every day increasingly damaged by your authoritarian reforms is enough to demonstrate the authenticity of their commitment. The suspicions expressed do not surprise us: they are in line with Article 1 of the law for a school of trust, which we have denounced and which aims to muzzle the teachers. Today we are looking at the appropriations of the School Education Mission of the last budget of the legislature. They are in line with the general logic of the precedents, that of the era of meritocracy where Bercy's theorem applies everywhere: to do more with less – and even to do better with less. This results in an increase in precarious work, job losses and an increase in overtime. The education budget, therefore, does not escape this logic, this theorem, being understood, Mr Minister, that you were trained at the best school of breakage in the public service of education, that of Nicolas Sarkozy, under the presidency of which nearly 80000 teaching posts had been abolished without ever being recreated afterwards. Since your arrival in rue de Grenelle, nearly 8,000 teaching jobs have been eliminated, in a context of a very sustained increase in the number of students. In addition, while the school education mission's appropriations are up by €1.7 billion for 2022, part of this increase is intended to honour measures taken before 2017. Of this amount, only EUR 400 million relates to the upgrading of staff, and not 700 million as you say. Thus, despite the serious health and social crisis that we are going through and despite the repeated warnings that followed the closure of schools during confinement, especially in the working-class neighbourhoods, only 50 jobs are created in education – knowing that 470 are removed in a second degree decidedly ill-treated in each finance bill. You repeat to the envie that it is necessary to make primary the priority, but prioritizing is not detrimental to secondary, but that is what you are doing. In this regard, we could go back to the fact that prioritizing primary could involve measures other than the duplication of classes of CP and EC1, which has been carried out to the detriment of many other devices. I say this every year, I repeat again: this budget takes refuge behind the duplication of the classes of CP and CE1, while the abolitions of posts multiply in the second degree and the overtime and exploitation of trainees are presented as the panacea that will remedy the lack of adults in schools. For example, you argue that the full-time transfer of trainees will help to identify teaching resources. It is true: a part-time trainee who spends full-time creates additional teaching hours. But is it the same as a creation of an ETP that would lead to the presence of a trained teacher in front of the students, a trained teacher who, in turn, would train an intern? No! The same applies to the increase in overtime, which forces an increasing number of teachers to work more in the illusion of earning more. This policy takes on a rivet that you know well: working more to earn more. However, teachers can no longer remind you, overtime does not constitute a salary revalorisation: it is the revalorisation of the point of index that they demand. The analysis of the budget implementation for the financial year 2019 shows, moreover, that the annualised overtime hours programmed have not been fully consumed, as teachers can no longer compensate for the shortcomings of a breathless system. I insist: while we lack adults in schools, the jobs that have been eliminated have not been compensated. All this weighs heavily on both the student study conditions and the staff, who, in addition to the increase in the number of students in the classrooms, are losing their purchasing power. I would add that this budget never evokes the crisis in the vocation of the teaching profession: in a decade, the number of resignations has more than tripled. In view of this, no ambitious recruitment policy is pursued. The budget for 2022 does not guarantee an increase in the level of recruitment, does not meet the requirement of a pre-recruitment which would provide real training for future staff, nor does it create a student-staff status, which would be a prerequisite for the passage of teacher competitions. Worse still, private schools are now integrated into the experimentation of local accompaniment contracts. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR, SOC and FI groups]] For these many reasons, the group of the Democratic and Republican Left will not vote for the credits of the School Education mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u38	Mr Stéphane Testé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u39	By increasing the funding of the School Education Mission by €1.6 billion for the year 2022, the Government is continuing and increasing its commitment to education, seeking to create and consolidate a true school of trust and success. Minister, Members of the La République on the move welcome this constant budgetary effort: the budget of the School Education Mission has grown by 12% since 2017. This budget is commensurate with the ambitions of the school of the Republic. He also stated that the Government continued to regard education as a priority and youth as the future of the country. By investing for our youth, we are building a more egalitarian society where everyone has the same rights and opportunities for success. We give hope back to our Republican pact. The various school education budgets voted since 2017 bear witness to this ambition. The budget for 2022 does not derogate from this rule. With an increase of 3% in the credits of the School Education mission, it further amplifies the action of our majority in favour of education and in particular reaffirms our ambition for primary school. Since the beginning of the quinquennium, the first degree school has seen its resources consolidated; These will enable us to achieve the goal of limiting classes to twenty-four pupils in the main section, CP and CE1, by the beginning of the 2022 school year. They will also make it possible to extend the measure of duplication of classes to the main section of kindergarten in priority education, since the duplication of classes of CP and CE1 is now fully realized, with undeniable success welcomed by all the actors. In total, 2,500 jobs are dedicated to this priority in the budget for 2022. The budget for 2021 had committed a salary improvement of the teaching profession and a strengthening of the attractiveness of the education professions, with 441 million arrows on the subject. The 2022 budget reflects the commitments made in the framework of the Grenelle de l'Éducation with €726 million devoted to revalorisations. In total, it is therefore more than 1150 million euros – yes, 1150 million – that have been mobilised from the last two budgets: concrete, far from the demagogy that sometimes inundates the political debate during the electoral period. A new step is being taken towards greater recognition of all teachers and staff by giving priority to the beginning and mid-career. The improvement of remuneration is accompanied by a comprehensive strategy aimed at improving the working conditions of all teachers and staff, personalising career paths, strengthening working collectives and improving service to all. We welcome this measure: the investment of national education staff and their primary mission to students deserve the recognition of the nation. With regard to the inclusion of students with disabilities, credits are still increasing this year. In total, in 2022, the ministry will mobilise more than 3.5 billion euros for inclusive school, 211 million more than in 2021. Between 2017 and 2022, the budget will have increased by €1.4 billion for the inclusion of students with disabilities, with the creation of nearly 27,000 jobs and a wage bill that will have more than doubled. No less than 4000 AESHs will be recruited in 2022; With a new status and a renewed index grid, they are now assured of a secure and more dynamic career path. We welcome these efforts and your determination in this area, Minister, because the school of trust is also an inclusive school in which children with disabilities have every chance to thrive and succeed. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on some benches of the Dem group]] So it is with this in mind that we will vote for the credits of the School Education mission. This excellent budget makes it possible to continue the action initiated over the past five years in the service of the development and success of the greatest number of people. We can be proud of that.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u40	The next speaker is the Minister for National Education, Youth and Sport.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u41	I come to present the school education budget for the fifth year in a row; So it's time for an initial assessment. I welcome the fact that the priority given to education by the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister since the beginning of the quinquennium is once again strengthened. The presence alongside me of Nathalie Elimas, Secretary of State for Priority Education, bears witness to our acute awareness that no territory should be forgotten within the Republic. I am pleased with the establishment of this State Secretariat, which makes the Ministry of National Education, Youth and Sports a major ministry that considers the full time of the child and pays particular attention to the most difficult territories. You will examine tonight the Sport, Youth and Associative Life mission with Roxana Masoracanu and Sarah El Haïry; I can only rejoice that these essential policies have been brought together. To enter directly into the figures, the budget for the school education mission proposed for 2022 amounts to €55.2 billion, excluding State pension contributions, i.e. an increase of 3%, or an additional €1.6 billion. As I said in committee, it's not literature, it's mathematics: you can take the numbers in every direction, you never experienced such an increase during a quinquennium. I'd like to come back with you on some strong ideas. The first element of the review is that, for the first time, the national education budget will have increased by more than 13 per cent in five years. In 2017, the budget was €48.8 billion; In 2022, if you approve it, it will be 55.2 billion, an increase of 6.4 billion. Nevertheless, as I say again, it is not enough to increase the national education budget; We also need priorities, and we have them. You can take the subject through all the ends: if you spend less money on it, you increase the purchasing power of teachers less. This brings me to my second commitment, the financial upgrading of the teaching profession. Even if it remains to be continued, it has been set in motion during the quinquennium, and the Grenelle de l'éducation bears its first fruit. These are not false promises, but a real tangible gain in favour of our agents.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u42	So much so that they're out there, ready to applaud you!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u43	In 2021, 400 million euros came to abound the budget to upgrade staff; In 2022, an additional EUR 700 million will be added. All categories of staff are involved, as all participate in the proper functioning of our education system. It is true that we have paid particular attention to the beginnings of careers, with an attractive bonus paid for the first time in May 2021, which will be revalued and extended in February 2022. Thus, in ten months, the new owners will have seen their remuneration increase by 157 euros net monthly. I will announce in November a new significant march in favour of school principals following discussions with trade union organisations. In 2022, we will also spend EUR 200 million on supplementary social protection, which corresponds to an additional EUR 15 per month for each agent. The third commitment we have made concerns our demanding and constant ambition for primary school, which has been our course since the beginning of the quinquennium. First, we have lowered the age of compulsory education to three years. One of you asked earlier whether our primary school policy proposed anything other than the duplication of classes: I am pleased to say that yes, there are many measures. I invite you to look at the whole of our assessment, because I would not have time to explain everything that has been done.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u44	Oh, no! We'd spend two days...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u45	It's all right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u46	As I speak to you, for example, the evaluation of CPs and CE1s at the beginning of the year provides an accurate picture of the level of students and documents their evolution. This allowed us to highlight the rebound in French and mathematics that we had called for. The doubling of the classes of CP and CE1 in REP and REP+, which covers 20% of one age class, or 300,000 pupils per year, has not only been completed but will be supplemented by the doubling of the large section classes in nursery school, which is already in the process of being implemented. At the beginning of the 2022 school year, for all schools in France, regardless of the territory – priority or non-priority education – the cap on twenty-four pupils per class in the main section, CP and CE1 will be generalised. This is less of a measure we are talking about, but it is extremely important for the day-to-day life of the school. More generally, the ministry's jobs will be sanitized in 2022 for the third year in a row. We have therefore generally stabilised jobs, which I am proud of, in a context of a very sharp demographic decline, by redirecting resources towards the first degree. This choice is assumed: all analysts, including international analysts, knew that there was a French imbalance in the matter. On the other hand, it is incorrect, on the budgetary side, to say that we have undressed the second degree to dress the first, even though we have, it is true, devoted a large part of the budget increases to the first degree.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u47	And removed devices!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u48	The fourth focus of this review, the success of which has been acknowledged by some opposition members, which I thank them for, is that we are completing the main public service of inclusive school: allowing the school to be fully inclusive is a strong ambition of the President of the Republic, who has made the schooling of students with disabilities a top priority, and I am proud to belong to the Government that has invested so much in this matter. In practical terms, the number of pupils in schools with disabilities exceeded 400,000 at the start of the 2021 school year: it has been 100,000 more since the beginning of the quinquennium. In 2022, the ministry will spend more than 3.5 billion euros on inclusive school, which is 210 million euros more than in 2021 and an increase of more than 66% since 2017. There is no other budget of the state for which one can say the same thing, neither under this quinquennium nor under another. We could always wish for more. But, I repeat, this 66% increase is unprecedented, as it was the priority of priorities. This amount represents funding for 4000 new AESH recruitments in 2022. In total, an additional 27000 FTEs have joined our schools and institutions since 2017. In addition, we have improved the operating conditions of the HSEAs. At the beginning of the quinquennium, these were almost only aided contracts. Since 1 September, these staff have not only been employed in CSDs or CDIs, but they have also benefited from a statutory system with an index grid and automatic advancement. Nearly EUR 56 million will be spent in 2022. This is extremely concrete and will be reflected in the purchasing power of the AESH. Finally, I would like to stress the fifth dimension of this review, namely the social purpose of this budget. I am short of time to report on all the measures it contains. First of all, there is an increase in grants and social funds. There is also the opening of the pass culture to college students and high school students from the fourth class; This is a revolution, because it will represent 25 euros per student per class in collective expenditure, which means that a class of 32 students will be able to spend 800 euros on outings, many of which are known not to be for financial reasons. This will change the day-to-day lives of second-degree institutions – you see that we are also taking action in its favour. We are also relaunching the policy of boarding schools of excellence, with more than 300 structures labeled thanks to the work of Nathalie Elimas. This is a proactive policy that is deeply social and involved in the revitalization of the territories, since many of them are located in rural areas or in small towns that we want to help bounce back. This budget is up to our objectives and consistent in its guidelines. We can describe it caricatureally, as did at least two of you, but that would be absurd,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u49	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u50	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on several benches of the Dem group]] ...because the facts are there. One cannot speak of a break in the public service when the public service budget for national education is experiencing such an increase. We cannot speak of a loss of benchmarks when the goals are displayed, when primary school bounces, as the evaluations attest, when our country is the best able to keep its schools open, despite objections to it. Criticism is easy, but art is difficult.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u51	[[Exclaims on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Knowing how to accept criticism is obviously not part of your talents, minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u52	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] It is with pride that we present this budget to you, not only because it is on the rise, but because it corresponds to the priorities set for our children and for the future of our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u53	We come to the questions. I would like to remind you that both the duration and the duration of the replies are limited to two minutes. We shall endeavour to respect this constraint imposed by our Rules of Procedure. Mrs Maud Petit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u54	Minister, I would like to ask you about the situation of the most precarious jobs in the school system: the contract teachers, the AEDs – education assistants – and the AESHs, who participate in the training and support of our children. I would like to thank them, on behalf of the national representative, for the exceptional work they do every day. These staff have reported irregularities in their pay payments: in a given month, they receive only a small part of the hours worked, only receiving those worked in the middle or at the end of the month. Recently, Dijon's DEDs denounced the same problem, with wage delays of almost a week; within a week, they are bills that accumulate, a rent that cannot be paid, races that cannot be made: it is not acceptable. Finally, last week, the national strike of the AESH alerted us to the deterioration of their working conditions and their desire to obtain the status of civil servant. Minister, I know you are attentive to the working conditions of all those involved in national education. Every professional must be able to work in the best conditions. Paying each person in time and time is a guarantee of quality and a mark of respect for those people who invest each day. We need to be even more vigilant about the precarious staff of the school system. What solutions have been found to these problems and what others can be considered to address their concerns?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u55	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u56	I thank you for raising the issue of education assistants, on which I have spoken on several occasions, as they are essential in the school system, as you have indicated. I also observe that second-level institutions often demand their recruitment, as they satisfy an important daily need. I have always been attentive to the professional development of these agents. As we talk about their pay, let us note from the outset that the EDA positions are supposed not to be definitive and constitute only a moment in the career of those who occupy them. That is why we have created the system of pre-professionalization for those of them who are destined to be teachers, in order to facilitate their task. This is one of the achievements of this quinquennium: from now on being AED is no longer a handicap but, on the contrary, a springboard to faculty. This is a very important point, because I am as concerned with the personal support of these people towards the continuation of their careers as well as with pay issues. Indeed, as you well know, EDAs are often students, or people who want to see their careers evolve. Although all cases occur, in general their average age is less than 30 years. This budget will also improve the situation of the DDAs, first of all because we are creating positions, which is important for the teams, but also because we will allow these agents to work overtime as early as next year, which will improve their purchasing power. Although other measures may be considered in the future, this is a first improvement.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u57	Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u58	Minister, in dealing with EDAs, you have just answered part of my question. However, for my part, I was not talking about those who choose to sign a pre-professionalization contract to engage in faculty, but about those who are no longer young students and have been recruited by heads of institutions for other skills, including their maturity and involvement in their missions. They are living harder and harder not to be able to project themselves into their work for more than six years – at best – because they cannot benefit from CDI. They have mobilized several times to communicate their expectations; I think you've just answered them. I now turn to the management of human resources in national education. You have stated several times that the competent services have been muscular, reformed or consolidated. However, I can tell you about the young teachers in the field who, after many years of study and sacrifice, arrive full of projects and energy in their institutions – they have sometimes chosen those ranked REP+ because they believe like us in the virtue of education, in the power of transmission. When they make demands, or wish to bring up difficulties, they only receive answers to the administrative tone, even injunctions and reprimands, far from the benevolence that we are told is the very essence of relations within this great house. Where are the attentive, personalized accompaniment and listening that teachers need in order to regain confidence and not be tempted, as is all too often the case, to abandon a project that they have so much hoped for? [[Applause on the SOC benches. – Mrs Muriel Ressiguier also applauds]] Even if, as I know, this question does not necessarily call for an encrypted answer, I would like to hear you on this point.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u59	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u60	You are asking a very important question, of a qualitative nature. It is true, as I have said on several occasions, that we have embarked on a change in the human resources management system, establishing principles and a roadmap and renovating its organization. The principles have been clearly displayed in the Grenelle de l'Éducation, through the twelve commitments I have made, all of which are in the direction of a greater personalisation of the teacher's path. In concrete terms, this should allow all staff to benefit from more humane, personalized exchanges. I do not claim that everything has changed overnight and I am sure that the testimonies you give are accurate. However, we are working on these changes on a daily basis. In accordance with the commitments of the Grenelle de l'Éducation, the thirty academies of France have each published a roadmap on the subject, which binds all the human resources management services, at the level of the rectorates and the departments. In fact, any professor can refer to it, to assert his rights. We're on our way. As with the concern to "do not wave" that we were talking about earlier, I never claimed that the problems would disappear overnight, but we made great strides in that direction. Of course, for this to happen, the whole institution must gradually change its culture, human resources directorates and rectorates must be amended and given the means to personalise the journeys – our instructions are very clear. In addition to the negative examples you have cited, you will find examples of teachers for whom this customization has begun. It is now important to complete this change; That's what politics is all about.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u61	Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u62	Minister, since the beginning of the quinquennium, you have been singing the praises of learning. In fact, with the law purporting to give the freedom to choose its professional future, you have further deregulated it and brought it closer to business requirements. In short, you have chosen this method of training to the detriment of the school curriculum. The result: between 2017 and 2019, the number of apprentices increased by 2000, i.e. by 5.4%. During the same period, vocational courses lost some 10,000 pupils and 34 vocational lycées were closed. In addition, UFAs – apprenticeship training units – have been set up in high schools, in order to bring together in the same apprentice and high school classes. It's hard to understand your choice, given the results. In 2019, the rate of access to the CAP diploma, the certificate of professional fitness, was 58.6% for apprentices, compared with 72.9% for students on the school route – 14 points apart. For 2021, thirteen points of difference are still foreseen. The rate of access to the baccalaureate is even worse: it is 67.6% for those who follow the vocational route but 41.4% for apprentices; That's 26 points apart. Why do you prefer learning? One hypothesis can be put forward: apprentices constitute a vast supply of cheap labour for companies. A 16-year-old earns 27% of the SMIC, entirely at the expense of the State; a young person aged 21-25, 57% of the SMIC. You seem to be giving a huge gift to the bosses at the expense of training and the professional future of young people. You have claimed to make the career path a path of excellence, but, in view of these results, do you seriously believe that you are taking the path?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u63	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u64	This issue is also very important. We have advanced learning and vocational education. Of course, I do not oppose both, but consider them together because in both cases it is a matter of being at the service of the students. Bringing the vocational school closer to the company is in no way harmful, as it must prepare the students to work there – forgiveness for this big word. It is therefore important for these students to attend internships, to benefit from professional opportunities, and that the training map correspond to the economic needs, particularly at the level of each region. This is why additional skills have been recognised for training information. And I observe that, whatever their political colour, they are in line with this very concrete and pragmatic project. As for the French, starting with the professional high school students themselves, they are obviously eager for such a rapprochement with the companies. Your speech should evolve in this area, because it is extremely distant from the demands of the students, who simply want to fit into working life. We have made progress in providing information on training and guidance, although this is still insufficient. We are working with the regions to increase their time – it had decreased last year because of the epidemic. We expect a lot. In addition, we have promoted the development of learning within vocational education. You often hear me value this one; I will not let it be said that he is treated as the poor relative of the system, because it is quite the opposite. In this budget, the professional high school student remains the one to which the state spends the most money, precisely because we believe in the future of this training. Thus, personally, I believe very strongly, as I repeat to all the public, that a French model is in the process of asserting itself, which articulates professional education in schools and apprenticeships, without opposing them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u65	Mrs Zivka Park has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u66	Approximately €2 billion is provided in this PLF to finance the priority of replacing teachers in public primary schools; That's $1.5 billion for replacements in colleges and public high schools. In fact, we need to ensure educational continuity and meet the expectations of parents so that any absent teacher is replaced, especially in the most difficult areas. Improving the effectiveness of teacher replacement is one of the priority reforms that the President of the Republic has undertaken to carry out within the framework of the Equal Opportunities Plan. This is also one of the twelve commitments you made at the Grenelle de l'Éducation, Minister. I do not doubt the considerable resources put on the table, nor the improvement of our results in this field at national level; They're certain. However, academic disparities persist. Despite our efforts, the national education services of some departments, such as mine, Val-d'Oise, are struggling to attract teachers and are still facing problems in the management of absences and in the organization of replacements. We therefore still need to make efforts to cover all the replacement needs and specific actions to be carried out in certain areas of tension. It is therefore from the point of view of equal opportunities that I ask you: whereas we already have measurement tools to assess the gap between the ratio of supervision in and outside priority education, can we consider deploying similar ones to highlight the difference in the efficiency rates of substitutions in different territories and to understand this issue even more clearly? In the long run, we could perhaps consider higher premiums in areas where tensions and difficulties are greatest. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] I say again, many resources have already been deployed; I also welcome the efforts made by the academic management of my department. However, replacement rates remain lower in cities such as Gonesse, Goussainville, Fosses or Luzarches than in Paris, Lyon or Bordeaux.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u67	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u68	I thank you for this question, which also opens up complex issues. The question of replacement is difficult in almost all countries, as it refers to several structural issues, including attractiveness, sometimes at the level of a territory. I am always ready to go further to the extent of the phenomenon – which was at the heart of your question – although I already have some figures. The examples you have cited show that it is in the most remote territories, the most difficult to access, or in those that are considered difficult and less attractive to substitutes, that the problem arises most strongly. Your comments also show that the question is not so much the question of the budgetary resources we spend on replacing – this year another 80 million euros have been earmarked for some of them – as the question of human resources management. We find the same problem with the recruitment of HSEAs: candidates are missing, especially now that tensions in the labour market are increasing and it is difficult to find candidates for the positions. You will rightly answer that if salaries were more attractive, there would be more candidates. I refer you to the various strategies that we have developed with the Grenelle de l'éducation, or with the class preparatory to the faculty of schools, which aims to attract young people to this profession. Although there is not enough time to address all aspects of the question of replacement, I agree to go further to the extent of the problem. It will now be resolved through a series of structural policies, since we have already taken short-term measures, such as the creation of contractual posts last March, when we have had to deal with the emergencies of the crisis. So, yes, this will be one of the priority areas for improvement in the future.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u69	I call the credits of the School Education mission, registered in state B. I call Mrs Sabine Rubin to support Amendment No. 710.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u70	Minister, if I have just denounced your choice to focus on learning over school, it is not because learning is not good, but because students are less successful, as your figures show. Moreover, you say that you wish to value this sector, that it is of excellence and so on. But, in this case, why remove more than a hundred hours of French, history-geography courses? Students lose four hours of weekly teaching! Ten weeks out of three years of baccalaureate preparation! Don't the students in the vocational fields deserve to have courses in history and geography? Is that what you call a line of excellence? Not only do you focus on learning, but you're cutting down the professional stream, narrowing it down to professional skills alone. The amendment aims to strengthen it by recruiting 8488 teachers.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u71	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u72	You are asking for additional resources for vocational education. Since 2017, eighty degrees have been renewed; the training map has evolved as closely as possible to the needs of the territories; CAP and baccalaureate courses have been renovated; learning has developed strongly. You know the numbers like me: in 2020, there were 495,000 apprentices, 142000 more than in 2019 and 193000 more than in 2018, despite the health crisis. This strong progression was facilitated by the "1 young person, 1 solution" plan. The means for the vocational sector are well there and I welcome it. As the amendment has not been discussed in committee, I personally express an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u73	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u74	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u75	Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u76	[[Smile on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] I'm not talking about the professional sector as a whole, I'm talking about his school curriculum: you answer next door! Don't you see the difference? You have valued one of the courses, learning, in which students fail more. As for the other, you have certainly reformed it – I do not say otherwise – since you have reduced all the general teachings! That is precisely what we denounce: you have emptied him of several teachings, and therefore of teachers. You have made savings that you have given companies to pay for apprentices. That's what we denounce and you don't have an answer, even when students are less successful in learning! Thank you for the relevance of your answer!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u77	I call Mrs Michèle Victory to support Amendment No. 542.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u78	Presented by the Socialist and related group, it aims to increase the resources granted to vocational high schools. If the aim of the reform of vocational education was to make the career path a path of success and excellence for its students, it must be accompanied by additional resources for high schools and teachers. School vocational education is designed to enable immediate entry into the labour market or further education – let's not forget – by providing an appropriate response to the needs of students. More than 1500 vocational lycées train nearly 523,000 students in public education each year, in more than 300 specialties. However – we had already denounced it last year during the budget review – the reform of the vocational tax (TP) in 2018 resulted in a decrease in the percentage allocated to vocational, technological and SEGPA (general and vocational education sections adapted) from 77% to 23%, to 13% in 2020. In addition, this share of TP, indexed to the payroll of companies, is divided between the institutions we are talking about and about 60 other organizations related to vocational education. Under these conditions, Minister, the ambitions of the EPLE (local public educational institutions) can only be revised downwards. The trade union organisations have been asking you for several years to count apprentices in the workforce of the establishments at the time of the calculation of the DGF (overall operating habits). This is not always the case and can only lead to additional difficulties. The other point that justifies the amendment concerns overtime. In vocational education, they are estimated at 1000 FTEs (full-time equivalent) if the commitment to increase the skills of the vocational route is retained. Instead of maintaining good learning conditions for pupils and improving the working conditions of teachers, overtime increases the weight of assignments and thus degrades the quality of teaching. Apprenticeship reform is carried out through redeployment of the national education budget, with minimal costs for public schools and CFAs (apprenticeship training centre), while technical platforms are shared and schools must find from their own funds the means to finance students' professional projects. In this context, we ask you to adopt the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u79	Mrs Muriel Ressiguier has the floor to support Amendment No. 707.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u80	The aim of this appeal amendment is to create 7440 second degree jobs in order to return to the 2017 level. Indeed, there has been a significant increase in the second degree since 2017, but every year the Government decides to amplify the public school education programme by hundreds of posts. The Ministry of National Education plans an additional 23900 students in the fall of 2022 and the Minister establishes a job plan with a decrease of 350 FTEs. Since 2017, an additional 96,000 students have been enrolled in public colleges and high schools and, at the same time, 7440 FTEs have been abolished. What does that mean for the students? Increasing numbers of staff in each class, half-groups abolished and options or specialties that are no longer available. For teachers, these are extra hours and less time to devote to each student.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u81	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u82	My argument will be a little long, Mr. President, but it will allow me to go faster afterwards. First of all, the employment ceiling for full-time equivalents worked has not decreased in the proportions you indicate. In 2017, 451893 ETPT was executed; 452441 ETPT is provided for in PLF 2022, which in fact demonstrates stability during the quinquennium. The means for secondary education have always been at the rendezvous during the quinquennium. In 2022, $34.6 billion is planned, 250 million more than in 2021 and 450 million more than in 2020. I would like to recall the widely shared diagnosis that France has for a long time underestimated the means of the second degree. It is therefore an assumed choice to rebalance the numbers during the quinquennium by upgrading primary education. Beyond this general observation, I would like to point out that the number of pupils is a decisive factor in the forecasts of the recruitment of teachers. While the number of students in secondary education rose slightly – by 5.65 million – at the beginning of 2021, the trend is expected to slow down in the coming years, starting in 2023. However, the DEPP (Directorate of Evaluation, Foresight and Performance) foresees that the number of students in primary school will continue to decline until at least 2025. Moreover, the pattern of jobs for the year does not correspond to the number of teachers who will be assigned in the same year: recruitment is followed by a period of training and future teachers are not immediately set at 100% in front of students. In addition, in secondary school, the question of recruitment for differences in disciplines complicates the forecasts. This explains the Ministry's prudent policy on job patterns and the use of a form of flexibility with overtime, which some teachers want to benefit from. Finally, the Minister's policy of differentiating the ratio of pupil supervision according to the geographical characteristics of their schools, social and family criteria, and the consideration of disability is relevant. It promotes a truly inclusive school, geared towards student success. As the committee has not considered the amendment, I personally express an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u83	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u84	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u85	Mrs Muriel Ressiguier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u86	Would the teachers, you say, be happy to work overtime? We must not meet the same! Besides, if they received a higher salary, they wouldn't rush into it. All teachers and teachers' unions say that there are not enough teachers in secondary school. Earlier, one of my colleagues told you that more and more teachers are resigning. There is a crisis of recruitment, a crisis of vocation of teachers and you do not wonder why. Or rather, it's like you're not interested. The truth is, there are fewer teachers in high school and they are forced to work overtime, which was not the case before. Next year, what are you gonna do? I hope you won't be there to pursue this policy that breaks public service.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u87	That's nice, thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u88	Your answers are completely beside reality.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u89	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u90	We will have the opportunity to develop this earlier, but the realities of national education are not just figures that you throw at us. Behind the reality of the figures, I share with the Grand Corps Malade slammer the following feeling – he says it with much more talent than I do: the social elevator of the school of the Republic is broken.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u91	When you remove positions in the second degree, you accentuate the social and territorial inequalities – no matter what the self-proclaimed spokesman for the Republic said earlier. The number of options is an illustration of this: when you remove positions in institutions, it varies depending on where you live. That's what we want to tell you forcefully. Similarly, forecasting schemes should not lead to an increase in the number of pupils per class. When the workforce has a human dimension, it is possible to apply differentiated pedagogies that allow teachers to pull upwards young people who have more difficulties. That's what we're saying; then the numbers... The abolition of second degree posts reinforces social and territorial inequalities; we live it on a daily basis in the territories where we are.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u92	Mrs Sylvie Tolmont has the floor to support Amendments Nos 545 and 543, which can be presented together.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u93	Following on from my colleagues, I will point again to the abolition of positions in the second degree public. As I said earlier, since the beginning of the quinquennium, Minister, you have abolished 7482 second degree jobs. It's like we've eliminated 166 colleges, nothing less. With the 410 FTEs that you remove again this year in high school, we will reach a total of 8000 FTEs deleted. [[Ms. Muriel Ressiguier applauds]] We have never accepted your excuse to justify, by the priority given to primary school, the counting of secondary school. We note that in the PLF for 2022, you also remove 60 FTEs in the first degree public. We find that, apart from the split classes, teachers' supervision of pupils has fallen by 1.8 per cent in the first level of the public sector. While, under the previous quinquennium, we had chosen the scheme "more masters than classes", the Government prefers that there be fewer masters than classes. The amendments aim to restore the 410 FTEs in secondary school and the 60 FTEs in primary school.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u94	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u95	My arguments are the same as for Amendment No 707. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u96	I call Mr Tolmont to support Amendment No. 540.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u97	I'm going back to the teachers' upgrading. I recalled earlier that François Hollande's government, in partnership with trade union organisations, had established the PPCR protocol, which concerned the careers of all teachers. As soon as you arrived at the ministry, you obviously removed it. I'll remind you what it was all about. The aim was to upgrade the entire profession: the PPCR involved 820,000 staff – teachers, psychologists, education and guidance staff – civil servants and similar staff, public and private education under contract. The revalorisation of the grids was to increase the new indices at each step, increased by an average of eight points, i.e. an increase of 37 euros gross per month. Since its implementation in 2017, contrary to what you said earlier, half of the teachers already paid by national education the previous year – that is, in 2016 – had earned at least 3% more. Of all teachers, the average salary increase between 2016 and 2017 was 1.6%. We regret that you had to wait until this year to apply an increase again, in the form of scattered bonuses and only for the beginning of your career. The amendment aims to devote an additional 300 million to the upgrading of teachers in 2022.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u98	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u99	Although the PPCR protocol was launched under François Hollande's presidency in 2016, it was fully implemented by our majority from 2017 to 2021. In other words, it was financed by the financial laws of the current legislature. The PPCR provided EUR 1 billion to improve the remuneration of school education staff. You propose to finance the upgrading of 1 billion euros, which is less than the amount of 1.2 billion envisaged by the Grenelle de l'Éducation. I therefore consider that your amendment is satisfactory for 2022. As the committee has not examined this amendment, I personally give an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u100	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u101	I could spend several hours responding to your proposal. Of course, I will not do anything about it: no one – not even you – would be satisfied with it. So I'll go straight to the point. First of all, I repeat the words of the Special Rapporteur. Then, I will hammer 20 times if it is necessary the truth of the figures, even if it displeases you: I am ready to repeat the whole session that the remuneration of staff increased by 4.5 billion euros between 2013 and 2017, and by 6.4 billion between 2018 and 2022.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u102	We had increased the number of teachers!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u103	[[Mrs Elsa Faucillon protested]] You're sinking, Congresswoman! The creation of 60,000 posts with a lower budget implies a lesser increase in wages, it's obvious! That's the reality. From 2013 to 2017, purchasing power deteriorated, while it improved, albeit insufficiently, from 2018 to 2022. You will see, all the calculations show: you will be able to do literature, mathematics will be implacable with your reasonings.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u104	It's not about mathematics!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u105	Leave the literature out of this!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u106	I repeat, for everyone to remember the figures: 6.4 billion euros from 2018 to 2022, compared to 4.5 from 2013 to 2017. You can turn it in every direction. Since 95% of this amount funds the payroll, the increase has been higher. Moreover, you are right, there have been fewer job creations: the increase of everyone has been all the more important. It's irrefragable. The next step will confirm this, as the OECD studies do, and you will be obliged to acknowledge it: the improvement in purchasing power has been much stronger in this quinquennium than in the previous one. [[Ms. Sylvie Tolmont and Ms. Elsa Faucillon protested]] The Special Rapporteur spelled out your argument about the PPCR – your comments were incorrect. We have fulfilled the commitments that have been made, because it is the word of the State. I would have had arguments to criticize the rigidity of the protocol. We even had to increase the budget by 500 million euros for 2017, in order to honour the promises of the previous government. We honoured the appointment, which helped increase the payroll as early as 2017 and 2018. But it was this Government that found ways to finance the measure. Do not forget in your reasoning the categorical measures, which are aimed at achieving specific objectives, which you certainly share with us. For example, the annual bonus for principals has been increased by 450 euros; We are constantly talking about making education a priority more attractive: in accordance with the commitment of the President of the Republic, the Government will have made a big quantitative leap to achieve this, by increasing by about 3000 euros per year the REP + bonus for each staff member, i.e. more than 50,000 people. This is considerable and the effects are felt on the ground: we now see a real attraction of the REP+s, as well as a desire of the people to stay there, often because they are passionate about it, but also because the remuneration has become really attractive. Again, we can talk about the hours of these topics, but anyone can check the data I just quoted.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u107	We saw it on the PPCR!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u108	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] These are numbers. You are trying to make comparisons, according to which you would embody progress, while we would oppose it. When we have the necessary step back, it will be undeniable that this government will have allowed a greater increase in the purchasing power of teachers, even if it is not yet enough, than the majorities that you supported. You can't help it, it's done and that's how it is.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u109	Mrs Sylvie Tolmont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u110	The Special Rapporteur argued that the PPCR had not been arrested. Yes, ma'am! As for you, Minister, your communication speech, with its repetition effects, is interesting. However, we are not the Ancients, and progress is not on your side. You tell us that history will judge – indeed. Again: since 2017, you have eliminated 8,000 positions in secondary education, while we have created 60,000.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u111	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u112	[[Ms. Sylvie Tolmont protested]] Every time you repeat this figure, I will answer: 6.4 billion from 2018 to 2022, compared to 4.5 billion from 2013 to 2017.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u113	You should have done more with less!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u114	It's unpleasant, isn't it? I get it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u115	Mrs Muriel Ressiguier has the floor to support Amendment No. 717.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u116	This is an appeal amendment, which aims to really raise teachers' salaries. The increase will not be historic during this quinquennium. In 2021, a monthly premium increased the remuneration of the 35 per cent of the youngest teachers from 34 to 100 euros, so 65 per cent of teachers had nothing; The computer bonus amounts to EUR 150 per year, which covers barely 25% of the expenditure of a teacher's annual computer budget. Moreover, the bonus is not really a salary. In 2022, the increase ranged from 29 euros per month, for teachers with 14 to 22 years of career, to 57 euros per month, for those with early careers. This applies only to 58% of teachers. So that's not enough.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u117	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u118	Without repeating the minister's arguments on revalorisation, I would just point out that you are proposing to finance an amount of EUR 10 million, 120 times less than the revalorisation we are proposing. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u119	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u120	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u121	Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u122	You know the rule that forbids us to include in an amendment an amount of 10 billion. So these are false arguments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u123	Yes, frankly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u124	In 1980 – of course, this date – the salary of a certified teacher was equivalent to 2.3 times the SMIC. Now, this salary is 1.1 SMIC. With your great efforts, we will reach 1.22 SMIC, or 0.12 more points! We can't say, as you do, that it's historical! I know that catch-up efforts have been made, but these are small bonuses that you spend here, here for the PERs, there for the directors – what I know again. You don't value the salary! Thus, despite your figures, the wages of French teachers are still below the OECD average. That's the reality. The other facet of reality is that 17 billion would have to be financed. You're not there, it's obvious. At a minimum, catching up with the index point freeze would mean raising wages by 15%. So we'd talk not about 10, but about 9 billion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u125	I call Mrs Michèle Victory to support Amendment No. 511.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u126	It aims to launch a major school renovation plan as early as January 2022. The problem is not new, but everyone will agree that the health crisis has highlighted the shortcomings of some of our school structures. For example, the National Observatory for the Safety and Accessibility of Educational Institutions conducted a survey between 10 and 15 March 2020, according to which 25 per cent of schools and 22 per cent of secondary schools did not have enough water points. In addition, the thermal renovation of our facilities is a priority. We all know too many institutions where problems in this area cannot be solved because of lack of resources. It is therefore essential to develop an ambitious investment plan, and in our view this is the responsibility of your department.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u127	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u128	As you know, the maintenance and renovation of the buildings are the responsibility of the local authorities; the State is already heavily involved in financing the energy renovation of school buildings through grants and investment grants to communities, whose recovery plan has increased the amounts: an exceptional local investment support grant (DSIL) to reach €950 million; that for the energy renovation of the buildings of the communes and intercommunalities amounts to 650 million; 300 million are planned for the departments; 300 million will be allocated to the regions, to renovate high schools; Finally, an envelope of 50 million has been added for structural sports equipment. I consider the recovery plan to satisfy your amendment. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u129	Mrs Muriel Ressiguier has the floor to support Amendment No. 718.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u130	By this appeal amendment, we propose that the additional funds allocated to private education be allocated to a fund to support local and regional authorities in order to rehabilitate old schools.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u131	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u132	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u133	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u134	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u135	Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u136	During the committee review, the Special Rapporteur had said that the minister would answer my questions at the sitting: I am waiting for the answers. Private education funds have increased considerably more than those allocated to public education. This amendment is intended to remedy this. The law of 26 July 2019 for a school of trust opened a new line, credited by 100 million euros each year, to finance the lowering of the age of compulsory education. For 2022, all the funds allocated to private education increase: by 6% for pre-elementary education, compared with 2% for the public; by 7% for elementary education, compared with 2% for the public; by 1.87% for the college, compared with 1.52% for the public. Without making an exhaustive list, can the minister explain why he is increasing private education more than public education, while the number of students in private education is decreasing?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u137	[[Smile on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] Because he's real!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u138	I call Mrs Clémentine Autain to support Amendment No. 722.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u139	It aims to create a plan of tenure. Indeed, the situation is scandalous and unacceptable: the vacancies of teachers continue to increase – in Seine-Saint-Denis, the problem is well known – as the use of contractors in the second degree, to cover the needs of replacements. This does not achieve the objective which should be that of the public service, i.e. a sufficient number of posts, occupied by full and non-insecure teachers. In November 2020, 36515 non-proprietary teachers were teaching, but they were 35315 in 2019: you are increasing the proportion of non-proprietary teachers – 4891 more since 2017. It's absolutely considerable. We cannot accept this situation. The staff must be titularized and there must be a sufficient number of posts. In order to do so, it is necessary to raise the salaries of teachers. Without repeating what my colleagues have said, as long as teaching conditions are not correct in schools, including sufficiently attractive salaries, it is obvious that the mad race will only accelerate to fill vacancies with non-owners. This is a fallback amendment: we would prefer that you agree to pay teachers at last and to ensure that the positions are filled. As is not the case, we are asking for a plan for the tenure of contractors.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u140	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u141	Unfavorable opinion. The competition must remain the gateway to the public service. Let us not forget that the contract staff can pass the internal competitions,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u142	Is this a joke?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u143	[[Mr. Ugo Bernalicis laughs]] ... during which he can promote his professional experience.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u144	Excuse me, it's nervous!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u145	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u146	In primary education, the number of contract workers does not exceed 5 per cent of the total. The increase in 2021 you mentioned was related to the epidemic crisis: we made additional recruitments in March and April to meet a need. Ms. Clémentine Autain rightly pointed out that there is a need to improve the attractiveness of the professorship: this is the goal of the Grenelle de l'éducation. Beyond these structural reasons, there is no policy to increase the number of contract workers in national education.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u147	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u148	They simply – and timelyly – respond to a need. The presence of a wheel of contract workers in national education is therefore inevitable. Plans for tenure are regularly deployed, because our will is to stabilize the situation of these people whenever possible. Teacher profiles are increasingly varied and competitions are demanding. It is therefore normal that the tenure is only accessible from a certain note in the second degree: there are disciplines for which I do not wish – and I assume it – to recruit for forty years people who would be below a certain average. It is therefore preferable to recruit contractors for one year, ensuring that the results of the competition are better the following year. This is a qualitative approach to national education, not a policy to increase the number of contract workers. Last year, I repeat, we recruited more contractors than the finance law had originally foreseen, thanks to additional budgetary appropriations, to ensure the presence of teachers in front of the students, while the health crisis was causing an increased absenteeism.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u149	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u150	You know, Minister, my commitment to the issue of inclusive school, we will come back to that when we talk about the status of the AESHs. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, in the field of teachers coordinating local units for school inclusion (ULIS), precariousness becomes the rule. In my academy – I would have been happy to discuss this with the rectary, if she had not gone to a high school in my constituency forgetting to invite the MP – all the positions of ULIS coordinators have been filled, following my inquiry – and I concede that you have been responsive – by contractors. However, it is difficult for contract workers who have just been born professionally to devote themselves to the inclusion of ULIS children in the second cycle. This example illustrates what our colleague has said: I do not know whether it is linked to the rectorate's desire to prevent teachers of the first degree from applying for positions of ULIS coordinators, but the use of contract workers leads to widespread precarisation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u151	Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u152	The Minister justified the increased use of contract workers by the health crisis and the need to recruit people who reached a sufficient average in the competition. But I do not understand why contract workers are themselves insecure, since they have to renew their files every year, which completely destabilizes the teaching teams. I also wonder about the new forms of recruitment carried out directly by heads of institutions. Of course, these staff leave great schools, but in what way is it indispensable for teaching? Even if they excel in some subjects, how does it form a good teacher? Why not extend non-professional but experienced teachers, instead of replacing them – as was the case in my department – with these young foals from the big schools? Can the minister answer me?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u153	I call Mr Tolmont to support Amendment No. 518.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u154	It is also intended to finance the tenure of part of the secondary education contract. You have indicated, Minister, that you are refusing tenure in order to ensure the quality of the teachers. However, there are 37,000 contracts in national education, some of which have been working for several years and give full satisfaction: there is therefore no interest in keeping them in precarious condition. This is not in the interest of the students either. We therefore propose that you titularize 10% of contract workers each year.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u155	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u156	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u157	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u158	Out of respect for Members, I must reply on certain points. First of all, with regard to private education, I understand the question – legitimate, like all the others – that has been asked. The answer is very technical and I want it to be heard, so that we can understand once and for all that there is no will on my part to give more resources to private education. First, payments to the private sector pension scheme had been exceptionally reduced by EUR 40 million in 2021, in order to adjust the cash flow, to return to the usual amount of funding for this pension scheme in 2022, thus constituting a purely technical increase in the expenditure of Title II. Second, in 2022, the wage bill increases were the result of compensation increases related to the Education Grenelle. In the private sector, employers' contributions are higher than those in the public sector, i.e. 36 per cent of gross wages in the private sector, compared with 5 per cent in the public sector. The increase is therefore also technical and does not change anything for staff, who, in the private sector, complain about less remuneration when they are contractual. Thirdly, the structure of the workforce is different in the private sector, which has more young people, which means that the attractiveness premium benefits more people in proportion to it. Excluding these three factors, the increase is 2.3%, and corresponds to the average trend in the private and public sectors. If there have been automatic developments – I will provide you with all the elements you want – there is no choice to finance the private sector more, but I see that the observation of the figures can lead to questions. With regard to the young students we wish to attract into the faculty, your objection seems to me to contradict the quantitative and qualitative objectives that we share: to have more young people who want to serve as teachers, with a good level of success in the competition – which involves increasing the quality of access to the position of professor. We did so during this re-entry, by opening preparatory courses for the faculty of schools, accessible from the first year after the baccalaureate, to train young bachelors, of a good level and meritorious, to the exercise of this profession. Pre-vocationalization for education assistants is a similar measure, aimed at accompanying young people who want to become teachers after the baccalaureate. On the same subject, you have targeted students from the major schools. Diantre, is it so serious to get out of a big school? Should national education really be criticized from a qualitative point of view for encouraging young people with high-quality qualifications to become teachers? Some of them will compete and become teachers, taking one of the most interesting access routes. I doubt, for example, that parents of students residing in an academy where mathematics teachers are lacking complain if they are sent a young graduate of an engineering school, who is considering becoming a teacher. We are sometimes accused of deregulating the system. The opposite is true: we are pursuing a policy, both quantitative and qualitative, aimed at recruiting young teachers, acting on several levers.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u159	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u160	Out of respect for the minister, I will return to some of the points he has raised. In the Somme department, since 2017, there have been an additional 627 students in colleges, equivalent to one to two colleges in terms of number of students. On the other hand, 556 hours of teaching have disappeared, representing thirty positions, thus one to two lower colleges. For more students, there are fewer teachers. Who did we take the most from? At the colleges – Étouvie, César Franck, Guy Mareschal – located in the REP area. By what methods? By removing duplication hours and options: while they are supposed to be priorities, we have gratified on the small means we give them to redistribute education, as we redistribute taxes. The result is the change from twenty to twenty-five pupils per class to primary school, from twenty-five to thirty pupils per class to college, and from thirty to thirty-five pupils per class to high school, with places where these figures are exceeded due to a lack of ceiling. The academy inspector may tell me that the classes of CP and CE1 are being split, but this is not the case everywhere. Some cohorts have not benefited from the duplication of classes and find themselves in overcrowded classes at the college: for them, it is the double penalty! In addition, the duplication of the classes of CP and CE1 does not produce the miraculous effect that would provide the additional means necessary to succeed in college or high school. The truth, at the national level as in the Somme, is that we undress colleges and high schools.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u161	Mrs Muriel Ressiguier has the floor to support Amendment No. 708.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u162	It aims to create a support fund for local authorities, in order to equip all schools in need of CO sensors and air purifiers, when room ventilation is insufficient or impossible. The installation of CO sensors allows to check the efficiency of ventilation in the classes, and to install air purifiers where ventilation is not sufficient. Many trade unions, associations and collectives offer this type of mechanism, which has proved its worth, which is recommended by the High Council for Public Health and which has been established in schools in many European countries for more than a year.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u163	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u164	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u165	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u166	The subject of CO sensors is an opportunity for me to recall the debates that we had at the end of August on the preparation of the re-entry: I will not list the statements of the time, which could be called breakers. Fortunately, things have gone well: the number of closed classes continues to decrease – about 1000 classes – and there has been no explosion of contamination, in connection with the policy of open schools. We can collectively rejoice at this. The debate had focused heavily on CO sensors and air purifiers. I do not go back to the series of answers I had given on these questions. As far as CO sensors are concerned, things have happened as I said: the competence of local authorities, the state supports them if they encounter difficulties. Since then, we have issued the rules: a refund of CO sensors to the tune of 50 euros per CO sensor and 2 euros per student. The measure is now in place. The municipalities know that they can appeal in case of difficulty. The policy of acquiring CO sensors has thus been accelerated since the beginning of the school year, and has made it possible, in complete serenity, to comply with a sanitary protocol which requires regular ventilation. This has been done, as we announced, and it allows us to have a generally satisfactory situation with regard to the management of the epidemic in schools.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u167	Mrs Muriel Ressiguier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u168	Thank you for your answer, but I would also like to have one concerning air purifiers. In fact, when there is too much CO but it is not possible to ventilate, air purifiers, which are more expensive, are the only solution: some local and regional authorities cannot afford to buy them or even make the advance.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u169	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u170	I have always distinguished between CO sensors and air purifiers, which are a much more complex subject and on which I refer you to the detailed document of the Ministry of Solidarity and Health. Should we buy them without discernment? We have always recalled that opening the windows was much more effective than using air purifiers, of which there are several types. Moreover, in some cases it is appropriate to use it. This is why local authorities have obtained it; This falls within their competence and, most of the time, they have the means to do so. The prefects were mobilized to support those who were legitimately in need of recourse to it and who were impecunious, but their participation is less systematic because it requires more discernment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u171	Mrs Muriel Ressiguier has the floor to support Amendment No. 716.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u172	The purpose of this appeal amendment is to establish a plan for the recruitment of school doctors and nurses. Indeed, the number of school doctors continues to decline in the PLF by 2022, which provides for fifty-three fewer positions while the epidemic is still there. But even outside of it, we really need school medicine, which we regret is so deficient. We went from 1143 school doctors in 2017 to 1020 in 2020, 123 fewer doctors in four years. The number of nurses increased slightly this year to 8527, but it did not return to the 2017 level of 8535 nurses, a figure which may seem high but which is not: if we report it to the 12.8 million students, we find that this is nothing at all. And we do not raise the question of psychologists, which should be massively recruited.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u173	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u174	School medicine has been a recurring topic since the beginning of the legislature. On all benches, we are aware of the difficulties of school medicine in France, especially since we are still in a complicated health situation. During the health crisis, there were difficulties in ensuring the compulsory visits of pupils in the sixth grade. From a budgetary point of view, the resources are allocated since the appropriations for Action 02 School health of the programme 230 Life of the student, which amounts to 545 million, increase each year from 2 to 3%. I will go along with the opinion of the Court of Auditors which I have asked: it is above all a problem of organising school health. We have a real concern about doctors, less about nurses. We need a reform of school medicine as a whole. I therefore express an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u175	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u176	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u177	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u178	If there is a subject on which reading the budget is not enough, it is school medicine. The question is not so much whether the posts are created on a budgetary basis, but whether there are doctors in our institutions in practice. And the answer is no. In the Seine-Maritime department, twenty positions of doctors are vacant. School medicine is laminated, damaged and abandoned. I hear the Special Rapporteur telling us that it would be interesting to consider a major reform of school medicine. Why didn't you do it? What did you wait for? The crisis has revealed the need to take care of young people. They have been shaken by the crisis that we have been through: psychologist consultations have increased by 30% in a health territory like ours. You have just undermined the medical secret, as a result of the health pass debate, and you are telling us that it would be interesting to consider – tomorrow, perhaps, if it is beautiful – a reform of school medicine? But at last, you're making fun of the world! You must dare to say it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u179	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u180	I do not know how many times we have called you to tell you that school medicine is abandoned, that it is the poor parent of national education and that concrete action should be taken to recruit doctors and nurses and to give them a place in the educational community. It makes me angry!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u181	I put to the vote Amendment No. 716.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u182	I asked for the floor!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u183	Mrs. Autain has the right to respond.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u184	I'll give you the floor in a moment, and you can come back to the subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u185	When was the amendment voted? Of course we can go back to the subject!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u186	I call Mrs Michèle Victory to support Amendment No. 702.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u187	The paradox is that, while we all agree on the findings of school medicine, we never agree on the solutions. I will not go back to the figures already mentioned. We are in such a situation that rectorates have had to hire young people, anti-covid mediators – LAC – to work alongside nurses. If having a small job is very good for them, it creates difficulties in the institutions. We know how important nurses are in colleges, high schools and boarding schools, and that there is a shortage of nurses. In the case of doctors, 1000 FTEs are occupied out of the 1500 planned; Of course, we find it difficult to value this profession. I propose a mathematical calculation, Mr Minister, since you appreciate them: if we make a rule of three, by bringing the statutory base of 1607 hours per year and per doctor to the number of students in France, the time obtained by schooling, not by year, is eight minutes. How do you want to move forward under these conditions? We're walking on our heads!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u188	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u189	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u190	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u191	[[Protests on the benches of the FI group]] We have already had this debate and the situation has not remained as it is. We agree that school medicine is in a difficult situation; you will agree that it goes back several years, including during periods when majorities to which you have belonged governed. Thus, we must all remain rather humble in relation to the difficult subject of medical demography, which is a problem, but not only in France and in the school sector. We know that solutions depend on two issues: the first is to make the position more attractive, which poses the problem of remuneration, and the second is to make school medicine more cooperative with non-school medicine. Far from being still, we have acted on these two aspects. [[Mrs Muriel Ressiguier protested]] The health crisis has shown that cooperation can be effective: the overall organisation has been quite good, especially during the vaccination campaign thanks to the cooperation between maternal and child protection – PMI – and national education. For example, France is among the three European countries that have most immunized young people between the ages of 12 and 17, regardless of whether the vaccination takes place in or outside the school. We can welcome this and this result, I repeat, is linked to the capacity for cooperation. In the future, the right steps that can be taken to strengthen school medicine – and must be taken – will be based on the capacity of paediatricians, IMPs and specialists, whether or not they are doctors, in ophthalmology or speech therapy, for example, to cooperate. I agree that the situation can greatly improve, but we do not deny the progress made: the increase in the remuneration of school doctors is foreseen in the PLF by 2022, as well as that of nurses, provided for under the Grenelle de l'éducation. But it is certain that the subject requires one more step. I am prepared to do so even before the beginning of the presidential campaign, in order to have the most objective approach possible to the subject. I hope that over the next few years we will take a path that has been well designed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u192	Mrs Clementine Autain has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u193	Minister, we're wondering what you're waiting for to raise the salaries of nurses, doctors and school psychologists.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u194	It's done!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u195	What are you waiting for? In fact, we should get out of fiscal austerity. But we know very well that you do not want it. So there is no solution. You have a good game of talking to us about reorganisation or new reforms to come while you have been in charge for four years. I give an example: before the covid, at the Lycée Paul-Éluard de Saint-Denis, in the département of Seine-Saint-Denis, one student planted a knife in another's belly. While the school has 2,000 students, there is no nurse. Since then, there has been containment and the situation has worsened in all facilities. We need the presence of doctors, nurses, psychologists and social workers, I insist, because this period, which is very painful for children and adolescents, has given rise to great social and psychological difficulties. What are we doing? Do we expect you to get out of austerity, when you don't want it? What's the solution, Mr. Blanquer?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u196	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u197	[[Ms. Sylvie Tolmont exclaimed]] [[Mrs Elsa Faucillon protested]] Madam Member, I did not want to give you figures, but you are right to ask for more details; I'll give them to you. Indeed, one can always describe realities. I recall that, throughout the year, I have taken steps to solve children's health problems – in perfect osmosis with the recommendations of the French Paediatric Society – and I have often had to face political opposition. We have kept the health of children to the best of our ability in a very difficult context, and international comparisons are also not in our disfavor in this area. I agree that, if the situation is difficult because of the pandemic – you are a thousand times right – the management of the health crisis cannot under any circumstances be the subject of too virulent criticism, if we consider that of other countries which encounter a very difficult health situation – especially since I was a little alone in defending the opening of schools which was the key to this subject; I can remind you of some of the debates that have taken place here, if you like. Secondly, on the question of the revalorisation of the remuneration of nurses, nurses and doctors, the situation is as follows: the indemnity scheme for nurses was reclassified in 2021 to the amount of 400 euros gross per year per agent; In 2022, we are taking a new step by redesigning their index grid as part of the Ségur de la santé.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u198	It's a joke!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u199	You have just spoken of austerity policy, no observer in the world would say that the measures taken under the Segur of Health reflect any austerity; We're being blamed for the other way around. Very favourable measures have been applied to nurses. This index revalorisation, applicable on 1 January, will result in a gross gain per agent of 957 euros per year on average. If we did some archaeology in the public finances of the 20th and early 21st century, we would probably not find any increase in the annual revalorization of nurses by such an amount. This unprecedented increase and new index grid are not small news. Will they solve all the problems? Of course not.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u200	When you freeze the wages, after a while you pull them up, that's for sure!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u201	This is very important, no one can say that 957 euros a year are nothing. For doctors, in 2019, during the triennial review of the compensation system taking into account functions, hardships, expertise and professional commitment – RIFSEEP – school doctors have benefited from an average increase of 950 euros gross per year, which in 2021 will amount to 1775 euros per year. In 2022, a new indemnification will take place during the three-year review of the RIFSEEP.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u202	It's not working!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u203	Contrary to what you said, we were not inert. It is not because I have admitted certain limits that you must be rushed by pretending that we have done nothing. You do not encourage humility.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u204	We take lessons on a permanent basis!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u205	I have recognized limits, because the situation is very hard and the slope difficult to climb. The situation of school medicine is improving – this is also the case in other areas. It remains imperfect because of the time it demands. Much remains to be done, but the figures I have just mentioned are very important and unpublished, if we look at the last 20 years. I would have been pleased if the previous majority had taken these measures because we would now be the beneficiaries.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u206	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u207	I call Mr Falorni to support Amendment No. 684.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u208	It also aims to increase the resources allocated to school medicine, with a view to raising the salaries of school doctors. These resources are insufficient, taking into account the needs and the policy of prevention that we must carry out. The health crisis has reminded us: school doctors and nurses are particularly mobilized. The number of school doctors is decreasing and departments are struggling to recruit them, primarily because the profession is not attractive. Doctors and school nurses receive the lowest salaries in the medical profession as a whole. For example, beginners' school doctors are offered a gross salary of around 2000 euros. Efforts to raise wages are needed. In its last report, the Court of Auditors proposed an indemnification rate of 30 %, which would bring it closer to the level of remuneration of medical inspectors of public health. It is at least towards this objective that we must strive to achieve, and this is what this amendment proposes, at an estimated cost of EUR 3 million.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u209	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u210	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u211	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u212	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u213	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u214	We are emerging from a social security funding bill where the situation of nurses and doctors has been widely debated, although we would have preferred to take even more time to debate it. The 183 euros of increase foreseen as a result of the Segur of Health for those who were entitled to it were healthy – I say it because, if we do not start by saying so, we get booed; But that was insufficient, as we kept telling you. In our country, 180,000 state graduates have changed their profession and are still not returning, despite these 183 euros of increase, unfortunately insufficient. You have allegedly blown up the numerus clausus, but we keep telling you that, in order for this measure to be effective, we must create places in the faculty, teaching posts and places in externate and boarding schools in our hospitals to train our students. The result of the races: two years after the famous "end of the numerus clausus", there are fewer places at the beginning of 2021 than at the beginning of 2020. If you don't train students, if you don't make health professionals want to do this, you won't have more doctors or school nurses in our schools.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u215	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u216	Mr Frédéric Reiss has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u217	It is clear that the number of school doctors is clearly insufficient, and the Government recognizes this: it is important in this budget to give a sign that we are going to tackle this problem. That is why I will support Mr Falorni's amendment. [[Mr François Ruffin applauds]] [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] Mr Minister, you have announced an increase of 400 euros a year, and an index grid effect that would lead to an increase of 957 euros a year, but the 183 euros decided at the end of the Segur and just mentioned are a net monthly amount, which school nurses do not benefit from. This could be one of the ways to keep our school nurses in our schools, who are in great need of them. This amendment could, by increasing their purchasing power, avoid a flight of school nurses to the public hospital and to the private sector.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u218	Amendment No 508 by Mrs Sylvie Tolmont was defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u219	Mrs Alexandra Louis has the floor to support Amendment No. 384.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u220	This amendment is in line with the previous ones, since it proposes to increase the resources of school medicine in a broad sense. In this respect, I would like to stress the role of school medicine, and more particularly of nurses – should I say nurses? – in the fight against violence, including sexual and gender-based violence. As part of my assessment mission on the law of 3 August 2018 strengthening the fight against sexual and gender-based violence, the Schiappa law, it became clear that the detection of victims often takes place in the school environment, thanks in particular to nurses, but also to outside actors. However, there is still room for progress in this area, even though it is true that much progress has already been made – and I would like to stress, Minister, your commitment to this issue. However, we must go further. For example, an average child victim is detected each time a sex and emotional education session is organized. For many students, nurses are landmarks, but unfortunately some schools do not always have them, which is a real problem. Depriving these professionals means taking the risk that violence against children will not be detected or that adolescents will not be able to give an alert. It is therefore necessary to go a little further, focusing on the prevention of sexual and gender-based violence, as well as on the prevention of harassment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u221	Amendments Nos 546 and 509 by Mrs Sylvie Tolmont are defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u222	Amendment No 706 by Mrs Sabine Rubin is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u223	I call Mrs Sabine Rubin to support Amendment No. 715.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u224	Mr President, I would have liked to support Amendment No 706!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u225	[[Protests on the benches of the FI group]] Mrs. Rubin, I called him.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u226	You're passing very quickly, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u227	If no one takes the floor to support an amendment, I turn to the next. That's how it's been for decades.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u228	These amendments concern school principals, regardless of the schools where they teach, whether small, medium or large. [[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] Let's go back to the minister's consultation when he wanted to make his Rilhac law.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u229	That was my bill, not the minister's!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u230	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] Yes, I'm sorry, Mrs. Cécile Rilhac's proposal for a law on school principals. She's become famous with her law! The Act did not address any of the problems faced by school principals. I recall that, when you consulted them, 44% of them said they spent twenty-one hours a week doing school principal's work. Some, in charge of smaller schools, did a little less but, in truth, they are invaded by their duties as school principal and by administrative burdens – what I call the liberal bureaucracy, like the assessments and other information they need to raise. In Amendment No 706, we requested that the directors of small schools, from one to three classes – those you have generally closed – be given discharge time, which is currently from one to six days, increased. My amendment No 715 seeks, in order to solve administrative problems and to deal with the documents which must be dealt with, to establish, as was the case in the past, the administrative agents in schools. They would assist managers, whether part-time or full-time, depending on the size of the school. The principals even speak of educational agents, who can accompany them in their missions, which are far too heavy.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u231	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u232	I am fully aware of the essential role that principals play in the education system. Their responsibilities are multiple and have increased in recent years, with pedagogical guidance, the operation of the school or administrative investigations. The Rilhac proposal represents a step forward in recognizing work and the function of school principals and principals. The latter benefit from the computer equipment premium, an annual amount of 176 euros gross, an exceptional allowance of 450 euros gross in 2020, renewed in 2021, and 667 euros gross for the post, liability and performance allowance (IF2R), the fixed and variable shares of which will be increased in 2022. They also benefit from the categorical measures provided for by the Grenelle de l'Éducation. In the case of landfills, 600 additional full-time equivalents have been created since the beginning of 2021. In addition, school principals from one to three classes will benefit from an additional two days of discharge per year. Elementary school principals of nine or more classes will be discharged, like their kindergarten counterparts, by 50 per cent of their weekly course hours. Elementary school principals of thirteen or more classes are discharged every three quarters of their weekly course hours, thus gradually converging with their fellow principals of the same size. A significant effort is therefore being made in favour of school principals. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u233	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u234	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u235	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u236	That wasn't the point, Madam Special Rapporteur! What the amendment proposes is to recruit administrative assistants to help school principals. It was not a question of whether the principals have the intuitu personae to be able to carry out their duties, such as the allowances you mentioned, intended in particular to equip themselves in computer science. That's very good, but that wasn't the point. The principals are in charge of running the school, not running it! In most departments, there are Administrative Assistants or Secretaries, category C or B, to assist administrations in their core business. They perform what we call support functions, it's still pretty classic! But here, it seems extraordinary to you. [[Smile]] However, this is a good amendment. In fact, it is defended by my group: that is generally what they are recognised for. I therefore do not understand the rapporteur's answer, and too well the minister's non-response. In all the administrations, we say we should improve the support functions, that is to say everything related to the budget, finances, for example, with people trained for this purpose: let's do it! In addition, as you know very well, Mr Minister, the recruitment of administrative officers proposed by my colleague Sabine Rubin's amendment would be very rapid, because the competition, at the level of the baccalaureate, is joint with the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of National Education and other ministries, including the social ministries. So we could very quickly recruit people who are available to work and who could help school principals – but you don't want them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u237	Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor to support Amendment No. 719.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u238	We have so far failed to convince you of the need to place administrative officers with school principals, but we insist on this amendment. Having administrative help to open the school, to take the time to care for a child's bobo and simply to carry out all the administrative tasks is a request made by the 29000 school principals who responded to your consultation, Minister. What's the point of consulting if you don't do anything about it? This aid existed: it was the aided contracts. This system was imperfect, because what the directors are asking for is not just administrative agents, but educational aids. You know well, because they said as part of your consultation, that a director who is classified is regularly disturbed, to open the door – you found a somewhat strange way to remedy it by installing an intercom, but it's very dangerous, because you don't open the door for a class! –, to answer the phone or to accommodate late arrivals. With the recruitment of an administrative assistant, there would be an additional adult to supervise the children. Does it seem normal to you that there isn't one? Do you think that's good in 11 or 12 class schools?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u239	On Amendment No 541, I have received a request for a public vote from the La France group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. What is the committee's opinion on Amendment No 719?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u240	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u241	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u242	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u243	Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u244	[[Mr. Ugo Bernalicis applauds]] To be quite honest, it is true that Mrs Rilhac's proposal for a law nevertheless offers possibilities to recruit administrative agents – which means that you feel it is necessary – but you are sending back to back, for the assumption of this post, the State and the municipality, risking, once again, to make distinctions between establishments depending on whether the municipality will have the means to finance it. You are still opening a mechanism that will accelerate and aggravate inequalities, as you yourself, with this bill, admit this necessity. It's not that you didn't want to hear it, but that you don't want to make a budget: we're going back to austerity.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u245	I call Mrs Michèle Victory to support Amendment No. 541.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u246	The aim of this amendment by the Socialist and Related Group is to allocate additional appropriations under Title 2 of the 230 Student Life programme, in order to respond to the worrying situation of the AESH, which we have all already mentioned here. As on other issues, if we seem to have some points in common, we have differences as to how to resolve the problems. In the face of the precarious nature of the AESH profession, we have been asking since the beginning of the quinquennium for the creation of a post allowance of 50 euros net per month for staff. You have responded here, and that is so much better, since the increase is 600 euros per year. But, with a net income of 760 euros per month, this profession deserves a much stronger appreciation, we are all aware of that. These staff are essential actors for the success of our students with disabilities, and we know that the needs are increasing enormously – it is not up to us to judge why – and we all see families in our permanences who tell us that we no longer know how to do it. This is a tragedy for families living in such situations. We believe that recognition of the profession requires both a salary increase and a massive recruitment plan that must be programmed on a multi-year basis. Many of us here, I am sure, stand up for this position.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u247	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u248	I will take a little time to respond, which will allow me to be shorter afterwards. You're proposing to upgrade the AESH's salary. The low earnings of the HSEAs are primarily due to unselected part-time work. The upgrading and development of their employment framework has been one of the axes of the Grenelle de l'Éducation's work; they are carried out by the publication of the decree of 23 August 2021 on the conditions of recruitment and employment of the AESH and of a decree of the same day on the indexing of the AESH. Until then, remuneration had been subject to the application of a reference index grid fixed by circular and capped at the increased index 363. This reference index space, the first level of which corresponded to that of the SMIC, was 31 index points. In addition, index progression was limited to a maximum of 6 index points every three years and was not systematic. The revalorisation started in 2021, with an estimated full-year cost of 56 million, is based on the creation of an automatic periodic revalorisation mechanism and a new extended grid. This allows for a regular and automatic revalorisation of the remuneration of the AESH, to guarantee a homogeneous progression and to give them visibility on their prospects for wage developments. The reclassification of the AESHs in this new grid takes effect on 1 September 2021 and is based on the criterion of seniority in employment in order to make use of experience in these functions. In addition, since 1 January 2021, the AESHs have had access to an extended range of social action benefits. As of 2022, they, like all public officials, will receive an employer's contribution to the financing of their supplementary health care.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u249	Mazette!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u250	I note that your amendment proposes that the AESH should be upgraded below that committed since the beginning of 2021: 50 million against 56 million. It's not very ambitious, at the end of the day. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u251	Our 50 million were added to the rest!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u252	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u253	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u254	I ask for the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u255	This exchange on the AESH has already taken place on Friday...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u256	No, Friday, the discussion focused on social workers who care for the elderly.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u257	And a little bit about the AESHs too.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u258	No, nothing on the AESH!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u259	Anyway, you have the floor, Mr. Ruffin.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u260	Who said: "We will give access to a companion to all the children who need it to have a school like the others. These companions will have a stable job and a decent wage"? This is the President of the Republic in his 2017 programme. We're a long way from it. There I have Aline's pay slip, which lives in my corner, the Somme, and collects 827.12 euros. Like 96% of the AESHs, she says she can't live with dignity. For the moment, the proposed revalorisation for it is 11 euros, and it goes, for his colleagues, from 5 to 41 euros. It's not with this that there's going to be something to put at the foot of the Christmas tree. She went through a single integration contract for two years, then she had a CDD. In total, she's been here for four years, but she's still in a precarious contract, like 83% of her colleagues who don't currently have the right to a CDI. [[Mr. Ugo Bernalicis applauds]] But the worst thing, minister, is what you do now with mutualization. It's a nice word, it sounds nice, it's nice for com, but really, for her, what is it? Well, before, she cared for one or two children, and now she cares for four children at the same time. She replaces her colleagues, she goes a little into ULIS, that is, she jumps from one student to another, from one class to another, from one institution to another. And it breaks! Of course, she did not have a good salary, but at least she saw a meaning in her work. You can't do an inclusive school low cost, low cost for the attendants and low cost for the students; we can't make the policy of the number and the mouth-hole – and that's what lies behind what you call mutualization!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u261	Mr President, even if this has already been said on Friday, we had to repeat it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u262	Repeating is part of the exercise. Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u263	Repeat, it's teaching. We will do so, too, on the issue of the AESH. As part of the committee of inquiry into the inclusion of disabled students, of whom I was rapporteur, I had tried to draw up a sketch of the AESHs. More than 95 per cent were women; 80% had at least a bachelor's degree; At the time, 70% had a quota of less than 60% of full time; the average number of pupils accompanied was four – the PIALs aggravated this situation; The number of invisible hours worked and unpaid was estimated by the collectives that we auditioned at 8.10 hours each month. Finally, the average monthly wage was less than €752 per month in terms of hourly rates. The question is whether the fate of these AESHs has improved; The answer is no. The question is whether we have reduced the precariousness of these professions from the essential link; The answer is no: only 17 per cent went to CDI, and they are part-time CDI. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] Minister, I am one of those who highlighted the Government's efforts to create units of education in Autism Elementary (UEEA), ULIS and Units of Education in Kindergarten (EMU). We have supported these actions in our territories. I want you to realize that the fate reserved for the AESHs, the sense of lack of recognition they feel, is the black spot of the inclusive school. With these amendments, we would like to do them a service first, but also to do you a favor and allow you to correct your copy. These trades have proved to be essential in the period of crisis that we have just experienced. While inclusion has made a leap backwards because of confinement – it was complicated, for children with disabilities – these connected jobs need to be better recognized, need to get out of the precariousness, and these staff need to be better trained, since training efforts have not been there.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u264	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 56 Number of votes cast 54 Absolute majority 28 For adoption 15 Against 39 I put to the vote Amendment No. 541.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u265	I call Mr Michel Castellani to support Amendment No. 655.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u266	The aim of this amendment is to allow for an increase in the salary of the HSEAs, as well as the recruitment of additional staff. The profession feels a deep lack of consideration. These companions are often faced with a high degree of precariousness, with the average wage being very low. In order to achieve this objective, I propose to strengthen action 03 School inclusion of students with disabilities in programme 230.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u267	Mr François Ruffin has the floor to support Amendment No. 670.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u268	The self-satisfaction you showed in your opening remarks about accompanying children with disabilities was amazing. I feel like we live on two different planets! You say: we complete a major public service from the inclusive school, we have improved the conditions for the exercise of the AESH. But come and listen to them: "There are more and more absences from AESH. Sometimes we find ourselves dealing with four kids with four different problems. How do I do it? I'm not Wonder Woman. The problem is that we have children in great difficulty, so I only have nine hours to spread over nine children. I was on full-time in Grade 1 and Grade 2 (medium first and second grade) for five children who really need it, and with the PIAL I am transferred to CP and CE1. I'm not complaining, but my MCs don't have anyone in the afternoon. The principle, therefore, is to move us as they wish, at their will, to have us followed by students whom we do not know at all. PIAL has precipitated my decision to stop this job. I've been AESH since 2010, and it's with such disgust that I'm considering resignation. Today after eleven years of good and loyal services, I can't stand it anymore, I can't find any sense in this profession since this stupid creation of PIALs that don't laugh at anything. Since that creation, I have never stayed in an institution for more than a year. For the past two years, I've been running from institution to institution. This year, I'm in three different schools, and that's ridiculous, because accompanying a student six hours a week is useless. » Many comments go in the same direction on the part of parents. That's what Valérie says...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u269	We have to close.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u270	[[Mr. Ugo Bernalicis applauds]] I'll go back to what the parents said. Minister, you cannot say that you are completing a major public service of inclusion. Put the means into it, because today, it's not!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u271	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u272	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u273	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u274	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u275	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u276	The lack of an answer leads me to insist – I am obstinate. As rapporteur of the committee of inquiry on the inclusion of disabled pupils, I had asked for a return on assessment before the generalisation of the PIALs. My colleague Jacqueline Dubois has, moreover, quite politely considered that this lack of evaluation was detrimental to the reality of the inclusion of children with disabilities due to the over-mobilisation of the AESH. Mr Minister, can you, in the course of this debate, demonstrate that LSPs have not been a tool for rationing, for undermining the quality of intervention of HSPs in schools? Can you demonstrate to us, with an objective assessment, that PIALs have not been a tool for questioning the individual right of the child to be accompanied, what the parents legitimately expect? Can you, with an objective evaluation, answer the questions of our colleague Ruffin, who explains that when you manage four young people in four different institutions, you spend your time running and that the times of retreat, sharing, exchange with the educational community are non-existent? I would add that one of the AESH's demands, which is cheap, is to be considered as full members of the educational community, and that this is not possible with PIALs. So on all these topics, can you give an objective evaluation to the national representation?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u277	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u278	This mutualization is to make the policy of the number. You can say that there are more students who are covered by accompanying persons, which is correct. But how are they? At a lower cost. This is the low cost inclusive school whose parents themselves complain. Valérie: "In two years of kindergarten, my son saw fifteen accompanying children with disabilities. With mutualization, they change all the time. This lack of stability destroys him. The president of SOS Autism, Olivia Cattan: "Ministers have mutualized AESHs who spend their time resigning. In their day, they follow four, five, six kids, with different disabilities, in several schools. They spend their time running. Children are not making any progress, parents are not happy, teachers are not. At some point, they're cracking. Your mutualization is a disaster. If you want a true inclusive school, there is a lot more to go with so that all children can access the school in good conditions. Dividing the working time of these AESHs makes them lose what was left of them, that is, the powerful sense of doing their job well, of accompanying the children in their schooling, of advancing them. And that, you're breaking it. The schedules were already difficult, the wages were not good and now it is the sense of the job that is being broken. It's in the soul that it breaks.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u279	On Amendment No 491, I have received a request for a public vote from the La France group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. The president of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education has the floor to support Amendment No. 624.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u280	[[Exclaims on FI and GDR benches]] I had withdrawn this amendment in committee at the request of the rapporteur for an opinion, but I am defending it today in a public sitting so that we can have a discussion on the fate of the AESHs working in REPs or REPs. Faced with what constitutes an additional difficulty, these staff deserve, in my view, the same bonus as teachers who are facing the same students. I note that there is interest in this amendment and I welcome it. However, Mr Ruffin, we must not only see the difficult situations, because if they exist, they must not make us lose sight of the fact that others have, on the contrary, improved a lot in recent years: I know some excellent ones in my constituency, which is sometimes to be taken into account when it comes to mutualisation. Without excluding that we can make further progress on the issue of the robustness of contracts, we must be aware of the presence of a particular difficulty, residing in the fact that each AESH performs specific tasks: by its very nature, the accompaniment of one student, which takes place over the time of that student, is always different from that of another. We must, of course, continue to work on this issue, but it cannot be said that the conditions for the exercise of the AESH have deteriorated in recent years. You know, like me, that in some academies, the number of AESHs recruited each year was barely enough to fill the inflation of the number of cases notified by the CDMH, while there was already a deficit, of several hundred cases sometimes! That is why it seems to me that, in addition to the interest we all have in this issue – I also welcome the work carried out by Mr Jumel as rapporteur in the committee of inquiry on the inclusion of disabled pupils, chaired by Mrs Jacqueline Dubois – we must not be able to describe a situation that is unitedly catastrophic. I believe that we can continue to make progress and that is the meaning of the amendment that I submit to the discussion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u281	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u282	With regard to the REP and REP + premium, which is the subject of several amendments, I agree on the need to upgrade the AESH, but the nature of this premium must be taken into account. The hardships or constraints of the HSEAs are not related to the exercise of their mission in priority education or non-priority education, and I fear that this premium is actually intended to solve another problem, that of the upgrading of HSEAs. From my point of view, the REP and REP + bonus makes sense for teachers who have a role of supervision and supervision for many students, but not for the AESH. If they perceived it, one might wonder why the pedagogical advisors, who were particularly involved in REP and REP+, did not perceive it. The Government has put in place a plan to upgrade the AESH, which is why I propose that you withdraw your amendment; If I don't, I'll give you an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u283	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u284	I endorse the arguments of the Special Rapporteur and would like to take this opportunity to respond to everything that has just been said about the AESH, beginning by paying tribute to the essential mission they are carrying out. Of course, I cannot let you say that we will implement an austerity policy when the inclusive school budget has benefited from an increase of more than 66% since 2017, reaching 3.5 billion euros! This budget increased by EUR 1.4 billion during the quinquennium, which was never seen. There's no policy on which we put more money than this one, because she deserves it...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u285	What about the ISF?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u286	What about the flat tax?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u287	Of course, we can always do better, but I also think that the few problematic cases you mention do not reflect the overall situation...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u288	No, Minister, these are not isolated cases!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u289	If I could make so much noise when you speak, I think you would protest, Mr. Ruffin... I will ask you to provide me with the e-mails of the people you have just cited, so that I can examine their situations on a case-by-case basis. Indeed, many of the examples you have given are in contradiction with what I see myself on the ground – but there are always exceptions, and we are here to settle them. I would remind you that there is a departmental commission in each department, which everyone – especially the families – can contact to find a solution to the problem cases.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u290	These are no exceptions!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u291	We have made a great deal of progress in training, and I want to point out that the 60 hours of training are now effective. Of course, this figure may still increase, but I could make you meet a lot of AESH who see improvements. Moreover, as you know very well, when four years ago we had about 70000 assisted contracts, we now have 125,000 CDDs or CDI, which represents a considerable change!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u292	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u293	Admittedly, progress remains to be made, but we have never seen such a development! That is why I say that it is possible to speak of the public service of the inclusive school and, on this point, the instructions to the rectorates are very clear: the AESH must be considered as full members of the national education.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u294	Give them a status, then!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u295	That was far from the case four years ago! Of course, you can always describe things that are wrong with me, but that doesn't make it a generality. The reality is that overall budgetary progress is considerable. With regard to PIALs, I can still see Mrs Rubin telling me last year that, having visited the field in Seine-Saint-Denis, she had noticed the interest, while she criticized them previously – I acknowledge the good faith she had shown at that time. Indeed, the PIALs allow to be as close to the field as possible, according to the needs of the students – in this respect, Mr Jumel also, as he said, knew how to see the progress made in this area. I am not telling you that everything is going very well: there is still a lot to be done, especially with regard to compensation – I come there in a moment – but it is difficult to claim that the situation is getting worse when we know all the progress I have just made. In fact, it is not a service to anyone but to brush as you do, on the basis of incorrect data, such a dark picture of the situation. By doing so, we despair everyone, which does not contribute to the attractiveness of the profession. Don't lose sight that the way you like me talk about certain topics has an influence on these topics! I would really like everyone to see both the progress that has been made, as Mr Jumel has done in other circumstances, and the progress that remains to be made. As far as the latter are concerned, many of you have insisted on improving remuneration, an issue that was the subject of the amendment tabled by President Studer. On this point, I would like to point out that, within the framework of the budget presented to you, we are mobilising EUR 56 million to improve the financial situation of the AESH. This will result in an average increase of 650 euros per year, starting on 1 September 2021. On the other hand, I would like to remind you that we have created reference AESHs. On the one hand, this represents an interesting career development for the people concerned; On the other hand, this allows each AESH to have an interlocutor able to inform him/her about his/her career, his/her rights and all the questions that he/she is likely to ask himself/herself. AESH receives an additional €600 premium. Finally, and this also responds to President Studer's amendment, a starting point for an index grid will be set up from 1 October, which is another huge step forward – you know as well as I do. I repeat, while four years ago we had only aided contracts, today we have CSDs and an index grid. We have brought the beginning of the grid to the 341, so above the level of the SMIC, and, thanks to the work done with Amélie de Montchalin for the public service, we now guarantee the personnel concerned that they will never be below the level of the SMIC – the order allowing it was published last week.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u296	SMIC time!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u297	The new rules guarantee an increase of nine index points at the beginning of a career. I know that you will not fail to say that this is not enough and, indeed, we will have to make further progress in the years to come. However, by continuing on the path we have begun to chart, we will achieve a fully satisfactory situation, and in any case no one can say that the situation has deteriorated over the previous four years. On the contrary, we have made commitments that have led to very significant budgetary increases, as well as to the statutory changes that I have just indicated. The situation of the AESH is therefore the subject of very concrete improvements in terms of wages and indexation. I do not hope to persuade you, Mr Ruffin, because I know that you have very definite ideas on this issue and that no argument can convince you. But the arguments I have just put forward, which point to a real increase in the purchasing power of the AESH, lead me to call for the withdrawal of this amendment. More broadly, it seems to me that one could hope on these issues a national unity similar to that which existed in the 2000s at a time when the situation was much more difficult for the people concerned.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u298	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u299	Let's see! That's not national unity!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u300	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Frankly, it is a bit paradoxical to hear some describe the situation as much darker than it is in reality, at a time when unprecedented progress is being made – even though I am the first to recognize that we still need to make progress.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u301	The president of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u302	In the light of the Minister's explanations, I will withdraw this amendment...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u303	I'll take it back!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u304	You can take it back if you wish, but for my part, the minister's explanations seem to me to be largely satisfactory. We will return to the question of the premium in REP and REP + and that of the AEDs, which will not give rise exactly to the same discussion. As far as the AESHs are concerned, there has been a genuine awareness and much has been done, ladies and gentlemen. Of course, much remains to be done, but let's not forget where we left, and I'm not just talking about 2017, because things have been done before...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u305	Thank you for recognizing him!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u306	I have no problem recognizing him, Mrs. Tolmont...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u307	It's not like the minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u308	Only the chairman of the committee has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u309	The amendment has been withdrawn, and nothing prevents us from continuing the discussion at a later stage.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u310	[[Exclaims on FI banks]] I put to the vote Amendment No 624 adopted by Mr Jumel.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u311	I asked for the floor, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u312	An amendment may be accepted, but the debate is not resumed. Mr François Ruffin has the floor to support Amendment No. 671.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u313	Minister, you are telling me that there may be exceptions, that there may be difficult situations in my area, and you are asking me for the emails of the people concerned so that they can answer them on a case-by-case basis.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u314	But yes, give me these e-mails, I'm really interested!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u315	No! This is a structural problem linked to the Government's decision to pool the time of accompanying children with disabilities so that they can intervene with several students.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u316	I really want you to give me these e-mails...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u317	I concede that there is progress in moving from assisted jobs to six-year-old CSDs – because it still takes six years of CSD before we get out of the precarious situation, which is still very long. I also recognize that the integration of the AESHs into the teaching team or the establishment of an index grid are progresses, but these are still very small steps: we may go in the right direction, but only advancing the end of the toes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u318	I insist, give me those e-mails! You see, I can interrupt you too!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u319	[[Mrs Danielle Brulebois protested]] [[Mr. Ugo Bernalicis applauds]] Unfortunately, you are breaking the sense of work with this mutualization, which forces the attendants to run, to jump from one child to another, from one class to another, from one institution to another. And contrary to what you say, these are no exceptions: this is the rule! For this purpose, the CDMH no longer notify a number of hours of accompaniment per student, but only indicate the need for accompaniment, while remaining unclear on the modalities. In this way, you can satisfy your policy of the figure and pretend that every child is followed, while he is very little!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u320	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u321	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u322	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u323	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u324	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u325	Do you know why our debate sometimes looks like a dialogue of the deaf? It's not because we show bad faith – and neither are you, minister. In fact, this is mainly due to the fact that we do not have consolidated statistical steering tools for the management of HSEAs and, more broadly, for inclusion. As a result, at the time of this debate, you are unable to tell us exactly what are the daily hourly rates of the AESHs, or what are the hourly rates of the AESHs present in front of children in the PIALs. As a result, the public service of inclusion is not yet truly constituted. Moreover, everyone here should remain modest, because the one who made the real revolution in inclusive school is President Chirac with the law of 2005 – since our right-wing colleagues do not say so, I am obliged to do so! Since then, we've only been skating. For my part, I have acknowledged the budgetary efforts and the voluntarism that has found a budgetary translation in favour of inclusion, but that is not what we are talking about today. The issue before us is the need to establish a real status recognizing the specificity, the benefit and the importance of the profession of AESH. That is why I have taken up the amendment which was intended to make these professions eligible for the benefit of the allowance linked to the exercise in REP and REP +.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u326	I shall give the floor to Mrs Rubin, since she has asked me to do so. However, ladies and gentlemen, I would remind you that this evening we are approaching the sports budget and that at the same time as we are going, we will not be able to start examining this budget until twenty-three hours... Please make sure that we are more respectful of our colleagues who are investing in the sports budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u327	It's still our fault, if I understand correctly?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u328	If your group chairman wanted more speaking time, he would have to make a request at the Conference of Presidents, which he did not do. Therefore, we must implement the decisions taken at the Conference of Presidents.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u329	So we're not arguing anymore?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u330	You have the floor, Mrs Rubin. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that tonight the examination of the appropriations for the Sport, Youth and Associative Life mission is also on the agenda. At the rate we are going, we will only be able to approach it at about twenty-three or twenty-three thirty hours. I think we need to be a little respectful of our colleagues who have invested in working on this budget. Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u331	We'll talk about sport at school later!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u332	If the chairman of your group had wanted more hours to be devoted to the examination of school credits, we could have raised the issue at the conference of presidents! However, no such requests have been issued. Let us apply what has been decided!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u333	I must say that I was able to appreciate on the ground the interest of the PIALs that I did not perceive when it was discussed from afar. I was received by the Rector but, of course, in these circumstances, it's a bit like when you visit a school, minister: everything's fine, you get compliments but as soon as you have your back turned, it's all the other way around. The numbers speak for themselves. The number of individual requirements received increased by 7.5% while the mutualised aid increased by 24.7%. You can see that there is a gap between your willingness to pool and the individualised aid needs notified by the CDMH. It is an imperfect organization for young people, who are not under the control of a sufficient number of AESHs and who suffer from the fact that they are running continuously while in need of continuous follow-up. Mutualization can be a good solution but only when it is really a tool of progression for young people, at least that's how it was sold to me. The reality of the numbers shows that what you are doing is contrary to what is necessary.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u334	Mr François Ruffin has the floor to support Amendment No. 672.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u335	It is intended to include exchange time in the calculation of the working time of the AESHs. I quote Samira: "Two years ago, I was following a student in college. I saw him progress and by the way, the teachers noted him in his newsletter. He began to express himself in class, because what they lack most, to these children, is trust. When we came with them, we brought this to them. It's over for me. Now I'm six students. I move from a "dys" to an autistic. Sometimes I don't even know them. It's not my job. » This case is no exception, minister. Examples like this, I can give you in packages.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u336	Give me the e-mails, I want to.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u337	Instead, come and meet with accompanying children with disabilities, teachers and parents of students. Accept my invitation, Minister, as your colleague Sophie Cluzel did. In Amiens, I had her meet four accompanying children with disabilities, three of whom wanted to resign. I want to convince them not to do so because they are a useful profession for the child and useful to society, but also because I think that this profession is first and foremost those who will struggle from within that will make it progress and that it is together that we will move forward. Why don't you come, Minister?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u338	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u339	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u340	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u341	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u342	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u343	You know, right now, there's a debate about purchasing power. I found that the various arguments and notes of the ministers had been refined to take them into account. In rural areas, rising fuel, gas and electricity prices will result in a loss of 650 euros per month for people who struggle to fill their fridges. Among them are women who work in connected occupations like the one we're talking about. The question of the purchasing power of people who do this beautiful and difficult job of AESH is therefore raised. You keep saying to my comrade Ruffin, "Send us the e-mails." Well, I'm going to send you one about the problem I asked you about earlier: the ULIS coordinators in the Seine-Maritime. The Collège de Longueville-sur-Scie, the Collèges Braque, Camus, Delvincourt and Dumas de Dieppe, the Collège de Neufchâtel-en-Bray, the Collège de Blangy-sur-Bresle did not have any at the beginning of the year and those who have since been appointed are in a precarious contractual situation. This is the daily lot of those who work for inclusion with Blanquer sauce! Another difficulty – and I think Jacqueline Dubois would make the same observation as me: we lack statistical tools. So give us the rate of resignation among the AESHs as we speak, minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u344	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u345	Minister, I have not understood correctly. When you answered "Unfavorable", it was about my amendment or my invitation to come and meet children with disabilities, their parents, their AESHs and their teachers?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u346	[[Smile]] Both, I think!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u347	Mr François Ruffin has the floor to support Amendment No. 673.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u348	The purpose of this amendment is to include the preparation time of the HSEAs in their working time, since it is considerable. They are only entitled to a total of 60 hours of training, whereas in order to learn to care for children with autism, "dys", trisomics or other disabilities, they must constantly upgrade, consult websites, read books or even pay for private training. I quote a teacher: "In my kindergarten, a little girl suffering from autism had twenty-four hours of accompaniment last year. There are 10 remaining students in the school year since his AESH has to allocate his working time among several students in several schools. I intervened in replacement in the little girl's class. For one morning, there wasn't even an AESH. I couldn't do class. She was running out of class all the time, and I was chasing her in the hallway. It bothered all the students. I canceled the numeration workshop I had planned. »
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u349	It's a malfunction!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u350	This, Minister, is how the absence of AESH, which was previously present with children on a long-term basis, can disrupt the smooth running of the courses. There are great laws over which we can only see our disagreements; But here, I want to convince you: I invite you to come back to this mutualization that is a way of making the low cost inclusive school.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u351	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u352	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u353	The president of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u354	Let us be clear: the reduction of the accompanying hours of the child you are talking about refers to the notifications of the CDMH. This is therefore not a matter for national education but for the department. Of course, we may find it difficult to find AESHs. In such a situation, I invite you to engage in a demanding and firm dialogue with the deconcentrated administrations of national education. In my department, I sometimes ask directly the inspector of national education in charge of the issue of inclusive school or the academic director of national education services (DASEN) and we always find solutions. How many times since 2017 have I heard Jacques Chirac's 2005 law invoked in this Chamber? Remember that it planned to make all the metro stations in Paris accessible. Today, only 10 per cent are, despite the efforts of all successive governments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u355	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u356	We can always make big laws. However, they need to be applicable. Let us stop invoking the 2005 law by considering it an unsurpassable summit. It is a demanding framework, a good framework, but let us not forget that reality depends on things that sometimes escape us. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on some benches of the Dem group]] Let us also acknowledge that the credits dedicated to the AESHs have increased by more than 60% since 2017. We can put it to our credit because we have voted on the budgets that have made these advances possible. Again, everything is not perfect, but there are things that are improving as well as elsewhere in this House, in particular thanks to the dialogue that parliamentarians have with the deconcentrated administrations of the state.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u357	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u358	I support the arguments just put forward by the President, but I would like to make a comprehensive reply to the various speakers.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u359	What about my invitation?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u360	You have given me an invitation, Mr Ruffin, I would like to make another invitation: I would like to have each of the e-mails of the people you have spoken about because we are looking at the problematic situations for each department. I'm a very busy man. It is always possible to quote testimonies in the envious; What matters to us is to solve the concrete problems. You will always find exceptions. For my part, I could find a lot of testimonials from people who note improvements. The instability you are denouncing, we saw it especially in the previous period, which is quite logical, because an assisted contract offers much less stability than a CSD. You can't say otherwise! It's possible that there's still instability. Mutualization, on the other hand, is neither good nor evil in itself. It is an adaptation to the concrete situations encountered. Anyone who goes to the field, schools and colleges, like me, finds that the number of AESHs has increased in schools. The assignment of an AESH to a student with a disability is not necessarily an inescapable solution. Some cases call for other devices. This is the reason why LSPs exist: they provide answers tailored to the needs of the student, as close as possible to the field. It should not be thought that a student with a disability should automatically be accompanied by an AESH.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u361	Absolutely no one's saying that!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u362	If it was as simple as that, it would be. With Sophie Cluzel, we are very interested in cooperation between the administrations, the medical-social world, and national education. We have made a great deal of progress in this area. Of course, there are still imperfect realities. Sometimes inclusive school is a challenge for teachers when students are agitated because of their disability, a situation you mentioned. Of course, there must be a humane response to this issue, notably through the recruitment of AESH and through training. I affirm that this is what we are doing and that we have begun to move towards a re-evaluation of these companions. All these points have been documented. What makes your speech less credible is when you talk about low cost. I am sorry, but a policy that has been subject to a budget increase of 66% in four years cannot be described as a low cost policy. A policy of more than 3.5 billion cannot be described as a low cost policy. That's neither fair nor exact. You can always rely on imperfect situations encountered on the ground. I don't deny their reality. But if your goal like mine is to fix the problems, it's pointless to adopt that tone, Mr. Ruffin. What matters is to look at how to find solutions on a case-by-case basis. What is certain is that the policy we are following is very proactive. Unpublished budgetary resources have been devoted to it, and you cannot dissipate it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u363	Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u364	These are not just isolated malfunctions. According to the information and support association for the inclusion of persons with cognitive disabilities (Toupi), which carries out an annual survey at the beginning of the school year, 7% of pupils with disabilities were deprived of AESH at the beginning of 2021, or 15,000 pupils, of whom 1,000 were completely deprived of schooling. In Val-de-Marne, three teachers' unions referred the case to the Defender of Rights: they found that only 60% of the AESH needs were covered, even partially, by the end of 2020-2021. In one of the cities in my constituency, there is a lack of 200 hours of AESH support. The inspector of national education, whom I met, as in every year, told me that he could not recruit and that the AESHs were resigning. It is a vicious circle, as for teachers: these are occupations so unvalued that many people resign. Of course, progress can be noted. The famous billions you're announcing, we're taking them into account.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u365	Vote these credits!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u366	[[Applause on a few benches of the FI group]] This is a first step, of course. AESHs are needed for quality inclusion, and we support their statutory claims. But you are right to say that the policy of school inclusion cannot depend solely on them. There are many other flaws: for example, there is a shortage of specialized teachers and psychologists in the special support networks for pupils in difficulty (RASED). All this is a matter of budget. Excuse me for always coming back to the starting point.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u367	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u368	Mr President of the Committee on Cultural Affairs, you were talking about the effectiveness of laws and the fulfilment of commitments. That is what we are asking for. Emmanuel Macron, candidate and then President, insisted on his willingness to promote the "inclusive school", to the detriment sometimes of other policies – we see that today there is a shortage of places in the medical-educational institutes (IME), which harms children with disabilities who cannot be enrolled in ordinary schools. On the other hand, there is a shortage of AESHs and there are not enough accompaniment hours. Admittedly, when an elected member of the Republic contacts the CDMH to worry about late notifications, this will speed up the processing of cases. But do we have to settle for this? This does not seem satisfactory to me. When a child's accompaniment is reduced from twenty-four to ten hours, this does not necessarily refer to a notification problem. What do we see today? Some children for whom 12 hours of accompaniment have been notified receive only three hours. Where are these children in the statistics? They don't miss AESH: they have one. Yet they do not receive the necessary accompaniment. We are not as far as the shopkeepers: they do not need twelve hours because they have been notified of twelve hours, but because they need twelve hours for the inclusive school to bear fruit in their case. To hear you say that these are exceptions is unbearable!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u369	Amendment No 512 by Mrs Brigitte Kuster is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u370	I wanted to intervene, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u371	I call Mr Reiss to support Amendment No. 491.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u372	It comes from the same spirit as Mrs Tolmont's No 541, which we examined earlier, but with a different amount. I did not understand why the similar amendment I tabled on behalf of the Republican Group was declared inadmissible.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u373	Ah, the mysteries of inadmissibility...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u374	Furthermore, if I may, Mr President, I shall at the same time support my next amendment, No 493.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u375	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u376	These amendments are due to Stéphane Viry, who also notes difficulties in accompanying disabled students in his department of Vosges. The first is to create additional AESH posts, the second is to increase the rate index of the AESH pay grid; both point to an additional 20 million towards action 03 Inclusion of students with disabilities in the 230 Student Life programme.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u377	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u378	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u379	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u380	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u381	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u382	First of all, Mr Minister, I would like to inform you that, as part of the monitoring week, the coconut group will come back to this important point and, in a way, will force you to provide figures. [[Applause on several benches in the FI group]] Secondly, in order to extend Elsa Faucillon's remarks on the notified hours which do not correspond in concrete terms to any human presence with the child, I found myself very well in agreement with Jacqueline Dubois: moreover, the fifty-seven proposals put forward by the Committee of Inquiry were adopted unanimously. Mrs Dubois writes as well as in Seine-et-Marne – which is not my department, but whose example I will take with pleasure – since the start of 2020, the hourly rate worked in the PIALs has increased from 75% to 57%. This report is not from Mathusalem, but from June! If we ask for an objective, encrypted, expert evaluation of these PIALs, it is in order to support our conviction that, perhaps without your knowledge of your own free will, we have moved from individualised support according to the requirements of the CDMH to mutualised support in degraded mode.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u383	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u384	That's the feeling I have: I hope I'm wrong! I would therefore like to have the figures, department by department, of these hourly rates worked, which have consequences for both the young and the status of the AESH.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u385	Two Members wish to speak. Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor – it makes sense that I give it to those who speak the least.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u386	[[Rites on the benches of the SOC and FI groups]] I would like to take advantage of Mr Reiss' reference to Amendment No 541 to make it clear that it did not cover 50 million in total and for everything, but 50 million in additional amounts, which the Special Rapporteur has failed to understand. Our proposal was therefore no less than that of the Government. We're not very smart, but still!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u387	I put to the vote Amendment No 491.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u388	We're against it, friends!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u389	If Mr. Maillard is against it, we are in favour!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u390	[[Smile]] It's often like this... By the way, Mr Jumel, I would ask you to note that "the coconut group" is not included in the official nomenclature, even if I place it quite well!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u391	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 42 Number of votes cast 40 Absolute majority 21 For adoption 12 Against 28
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u392	Amendment No 493 by Mr Stéphane Viry was defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u393	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u394	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u395	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u396	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u397	What Sébastien Jumel has just said is obvious: at the CDMH level, we have moved from individualised notifications to mutualised notifications. That is why, minister, I was talking about an inclusive low cost school, where the number of hours is divided by the number of students. I would like to make a number of e-mails available to you that, of course, I will anonymize before transmitting them to your services, because they come from national education staff, who do not necessarily want their name to reach their minister. In return, accept my invitation: come to meet the AESHs, parents and teachers! You're locked in the denial of reality! Last Tuesday, AESHs demonstrated throughout France: in Paris, where their number had never been so large, in Amiens, Grenoble, Lyon, Brittany, everywhere. The regional press echoes their ill-being and ras-le-bol. My tone, as you call it, is not mine, but that of those people who continue to accompany children as they live below the poverty line. Whatever you say, Minister, they receive less than the SMIC – certainly not the hourly SMIC, but the monthly SMIC: in other words, they receive less than 1200 euros per month. You'd have a hard time living with that, too, by the way! Yet this is what they receive for essential work. That's the low cost inclusive school! When, moreover, this work loses its meaning because the AESHs are swept away from one child to another, it is important that things change and change very quickly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u398	Amendment No 492 by Mr Stéphane Viry is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u399	On Amendment No 668, I have received a request for a public vote from the La France group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr François Ruffin has the floor in support of Amendments Nos 667 and 668, which can be presented together.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u400	They relate to the same problem: the fact that more and more children require follow-up because they enter school with a disability. Therefore, it is necessary to either split the time of professionals, or recruit much more than you do. I have in front of me, communicated by our comrade Jumel, an e-mail sent on Wednesday 8 September by the Rectorate of the Normandy Academy: "Hello, I hope that your takeover went well. In order to complete your assignment, I would ask you to visit Paul Bert Elementary School for a few hours. Thank you for getting in touch with the director, who is discharged on Fridays. What does it mean to spend "a few hours" following children in a given school? It's a mouth-hole. It's a grade jump. As the police were doing under Sarkozy, we're making numbers. Your services will account for one more child, except for two or three, as a beneficiary of an AESH. It is absolutely necessary to leave this logic and to ensure an individualized follow-up, at the height, which does not lead to suffering in either the accompanying person or the accompanying person.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u401	I put to the vote Amendment No 668.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u402	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 37 Number of votes cast 37 Absolute majority 19 For adoption 9 Against 28
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u403	Mr François Ruffin has the floor to support Amendment No 669.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u404	[[Rires on FI and SOC benches]] I temporarily conclude this sequence dedicated to the AESH. Mr Minister, the silence you are opposing my invitation is one of those who are worth refusing. I'm hurt emotionally.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u405	It's a sign that it's getting better!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u406	Self-esteem and love suffer together! Seriously, it would be good for you, Minister, to come with me to meet with the AESHs, the parents of students, whose ill-being is now profound because of this mutualization that hurts them the most. This would make you look down on the reality of the LIPs. All you have to do is do it incognito!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u407	He's too well-known!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u408	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u409	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u410	What is the Government's view, apart from the fact that I don't see the minister keeping the incognito for a long time?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u411	Same opinion. Knowing your sensitivity, Mr. Ruffin, I will try to alleviate the pain I cause you. Actually, the first one of us who invited the other one was me. I asked you to send me the messages you were talking about; Please, don't anonymize them before, I'm very interested – not by malice at all, but because this would be consistent with what we're doing on an ongoing basis. Whenever a problem arises, we try to resolve it, even when no Member is questioning us: moreover, the percentage of difficulties at the time of entry mentioned earlier is lower than that which we noted in previous years, even if it comes from an association and must therefore be compared with the data of national education. The fact is that some situations are not resolved at the start of the year, not because of the lack of AESH posts, but because of recruitment difficulties, for example in the Paris region. We try to solve these problems on a case-by-case basis. Therefore, if you want us to solve those that you have heard, they interest me! You mention real cases: you can quote them indefinitely if you do not bring them to our knowledge. Again, the problems are made to be solved! As far as mutualization is concerned, what bothers me is that you are trying to systematically give it a pejorative connotation. In some cases, mutualised accompaniment is more relevant; in others, it will be the individual accompaniment. We cannot have a Manichean vision of this subject. I go to classes very often, I meet more and more AESH in schools; I see those who are happy with their mission and much more stabilized than before. I sometimes find several of them in the same class and, in this configuration, mutualization would be better for everyone. Let's not denigrate her! Finally, I would like to share with you a difficulty that ATD Fourth World has pointed out: we must ensure that we do not take social problems for disabilities. For example, delays in a child entering kindergarten may be due to a very disadvantaged environment: educational, possibly social, measures should be taken, but not assigned to an AESH. But some have pushed the theorization so far that they now hear it like this! Qualitatively, we need to improve our way of doing things. This is also a path for the future, because, I repeat, under no circumstances can you regard our policy as aimed at the economy: we create posts for AESH every year, 4000 in this text. One year, we went up to 8,000! Everyone can check this information. It is therefore not a policy of austerity, but, on the contrary, unrivalled growth. However, students need to be able to really benefit from it, hence the need for a very personalized vision, both in terms of the recommendations of the CDMH and subsequently that of the PILs, which Mrs Rubin told me last year that she was designing the interest. I can quite admit that the result is not always perfect, which is why I ask you, in order to settle them, to submit to me cases of which you are aware; On the other hand, the philosophy of LSPs is not to save money, but to meet the needs closest to the ground. The best evidence of this is that the AESHs will find themselves receiving the largest increase in this budget, in all areas.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u412	Mrs Jacqueline Dubois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u413	You didn't immediately notice my signals, Mr. President: for a moment, I feared I had become invisible! I wanted to speak for having been mentioned several times. As Mr Jumel pointed out, I have followed this issue of inclusive school in the committee of inquiry: of the fifty-seven proposals put forward by this committee, I have found that three-quarters are already being implemented – not always fully in practice, but the will leaves no doubt. The fact is all the more remarkable as we have just been through a crisis of extraordinary violence: despite everything, inclusive school is moving forward. In the same evaluation, while PIALs had existed for two years, I found many positive observations on the part of teachers and families, with some conditions necessary for their operation. Thus, their geographical and human scope must remain moderate – about 50 AESHs, it is the assurance of a well managed PIAL. In addition, all stakeholders must want it to work well: where volunteers had presented themselves to experiment with them at the outset, things were perfectly happening, on the contrary, the PIALs created by forced march, without any real explanation, without their meaning and purpose being fully understood – especially if their perimeter is wide, as is the case in some departments in the north of France.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u414	In Seine-et-Marne!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u415	We can continue to improve all this. [[Ms. Sylvie Carrière applauds]] But we cannot say that we are not moving forward on these issues. We have already made progress and will do even better. We were halfway in 2019, during the work of the commission of inquiry on the inclusion of students with disabilities, and we have made further progress since then. Of course, we will still have to continue.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u416	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u417	I ask for the VAR – video assistance at the arbitration! I think I invited the first one of you, Mr. Minister. But the VAR will allow us to verify it. You cannot do it on a case-by-case basis when there are thousands of different situations, Minister. There is no tradition of struggle among those accompanying children with disabilities. If there were demonstrations everywhere and processions fuller than ever, last week, it's because there's an evil being. This is linked to a cause, in particular: the misguided mutualization. If mutualization has taken on a pejorative connotation, it is not because it is intrinsically negative; This is because of the way it has been implemented, which leads to its being perceived as a deterioration of the profession. I keep my invitation, minister: come and meet all those – and especially those – who protested last week, and who did not by chance do so. They protested against your policy of an inclusive school that does not afford them the means to accompany as they have already done, and as they would like to do, children with disabilities.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u418	I call Mrs Clémentine Autain to support Amendment No. 730.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u419	I recall, ladies and gentlemen, the promise made by Emmanuel Macron at the National Conference on Disability in February 2020: no disabled children without a solution for schooling in September 2020, for the school year 2020-2021. When you came to Tremblay-en-France a few days ago, Minister, I spoke to the President of the Republic on the issue of the AESH. He seemed to think that the situation was shrewd and to consider, with your supporting comments, that the angry AESHs had no reason to be so because of what you had done. But I am seized – especially since the crisis of the covid – not only by the AESH but also by parents who are in distress. Indeed, when a child who is in great psychological difficulty cannot be educated, it is unbearable on a personal level, for those who are living the situation, but it is also unbearable from the point of view of republican equality. This is unacceptable. The problem must therefore be solved. You say, minister, that you have made an unprecedented effort. I can hear you. Indeed, you have created positions. But the effort thus made is not at the same level as that which you are capable of when it comes to abolishing the solidarity tax on wealth (ISF), setting up the flat tax or introducing the tax credit for competitiveness and employment (CICE) without any consideration: there, the billions rain! While the need for AESH is fundamental for families and for republican equality, the means are not at the level of the situation we are going through. The number of young people to be enrolled in ULIS is increasing and the National Union of Associations of Parents, Persons with Mental Disabilities and Their Friends (UNAPEI) makes a finding that is shared by the Toupi association – all for inclusion –: as Sabine Rubin said, 7% of students with disabilities are deprived of AESH. It is therefore necessary to titularize the AESHs and increase their number.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u420	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u421	He's unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u422	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u423	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u424	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u425	First of all, I would like to reassure my colleague Dubois: if I mentioned it, it was not to stigmatise it but to associate it with the work we have carried out together and the observation that we are making today on the limits – which she herself highlighted in her report of June 2021. Our colleague rightly points out that 75% of the recommendations of the committee of inquiry have been implemented; That's good. But the remaining 25% are the most structural. I come back to my central question: do we have, yes or no, a tool that provides us with objective visibility of the parameters we have been discussing for two hours? The answer is no. Are we able to say, at the time we are talking, how many notifications under individual accompanying law were there three years ago and how many were there this year? Are we able to determine very precisely the hourly rate of human presence before the child today, to know whether the situation has improved or deteriorated? I asked for a shared diagnosis, an evaluation of the LSPs. It is true that in some places they work well; You're right, colleague Dubois. But there are also many places, especially in rural areas, where LSPs have become a puzzle for those who coordinate them and a source of ill-being for those who implement them. That is what we say with pragmatism today.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u426	I call Mrs Sabine Rubin to support Amendment No. 721.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u427	I will start with a parenthesis: if my colleague Ruffin refuses to send you the elements relating to the malfunctions concerning the AESH, Minister, I will do so myself: as soon as next week, you will receive electronic messages listing the deficiencies, for example the case of reference teachers with 300 files and not 100, as was foreseen in the famous report. I'll send them to you. Amendment No 721 denounces the budgetary insinuity of the Student Life programme and its impact on the living conditions of the AESH. Every year, the same reproach is made to the Government. "The sincerity of the mission is improving but remains largely perfectable," said the Special Rapporteur in the annex "School education" of the report on the regulation of the budget and approval of the accounts for 2019. It concluded by stating that "the transformation of all AESH positions into stable contracts was included in the 2020 PLF. It could have been expected that, in the PLF for 2022, failing the PLF for 2021, all AESH positions would finally be in Title 2. But out of 78835 ETPT, only 37229 are included in Title 2. More than half are not there, and each year these figures are getting worse: only 910 ETPTs go to Division 2 because of their "CDization". This has several consequences, including on the visibility of the device. It becomes impossible to control this budget line: how many natural persons are involved? How many AESHs are there? Because the AESHs, in addition, are part-time! This information is therefore unverifiable, hence the recurrent accusation of budgetary insinuity, both in Parliament and in the Court of Auditors' reports. Finally, for the HSEAs, being out of title 2 results in a significant delay in the issuance of their pay slips and consequences, for example, for asserting their rights to the Family Allowance Fund (FAC). The question also arises of the revalorisation of their wages, following the Grenelle de l'éducation, as it is indicated that 37 million are spent on revalorisation for all the AESH in 2022, of which 26 million for the AESH of Title 2. So there are only 11 million for the non-title 2 AESHs, while there are more! We don't understand!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u428	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u429	You're talking about budgetary insinuity, Mrs. Rubin. Let us go back to what is stated in your amendment: you propose to create a budget line for EUR 100, for all the AESHs. Before you talk about insinuity, read your amendments. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u430	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u431	It is also unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u432	Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u433	You should have spoken to your neighbour, the rapporteur for an opinion: it is Mrs Osson who says that the insinuity of the mission is improving. That means she was insinuating!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u434	I call Mrs Sabine Rubin to support Amendment No. 705.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u435	We're changing the subject and we're gradually getting closer to the sport. We know, Mr. Minister, after seeing you do some gymnastics, that you promote physical and sports education (PSE). I'm very grateful to you: you're right. However, since the beginning of 2018, there have been 73212 additional pupils in the second degree and 771 posts abolished in EPS. While in order to maintain the same level of management as in 2017, the Government should have created 484 posts, it has abolished 771 of them! These deletions of course have a direct impact on the learning conditions of students. In many secondary schools, there is a shortage of EPS teachers to ensure mandatory hours. The classes are crowded, which does not allow for a good practice: the time of practice is less and the sports facilities are not sufficient. I would like to recall that there are so many sports facilities in the 93 that it is also necessary to count hours of practice in order to go to and return to the gymnasium. Finally, school sport is being challenged by a reform of the high schools that makes the class break out and multiplies the classes on Wednesday afternoons. However, it is known that many students pass the Certificate of Fitness for Physical Education and Sport (CAPEPS), both externally and internally. So resources exist!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u436	Wait, I wish I'd understood...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u437	Mr Frédéric Reiss has the floor to support Amendment No. 494.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u438	As I said in the general discussion, the link between sport and associative life with the Ministry of National Education must make sense and produce results. This amendment proposed by Stéphane Viry underlines the importance of healthy sport. The health crisis has revealed the danger of the sedentarization of our young people, thus more exposed to cardiovascular risks. We therefore propose, by this amendment, to restore the 410 FTEs removed by this PLF to the teaching of sport.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u439	I call Mr Falorni to support Amendment No. 472.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u440	Its aim is to increase by EUR 15 million the funds dedicated to the School Health Action, which contributes to the promotion of the health of pupils and to the improvement of their quality of life. It is essential to strengthen EPS and sport in schools for reasons of both health and access to sports and artistic culture, especially in the context of preparations for the Paris Olympic Games of 2024, in order to develop the living together and the sense of effort. The EPS is the basis for the democratization of physical, sports and artistic activities. In order to maintain the same management ratio as in 2017, the Government should have created 484 posts. Many studies highlight the needs of the population for physical and sporting activities. The decline in the practice of younger generations is alarming in this regard. According to Professor Claire Mounier-Vehier, president of the Fédération française de cardiology, "between 40 years ago and today, children have lost 25% of their cardiovascular abilities. Now one in five children in France is affected by obesity. Hypertension in young people, which hardly existed before, is becoming more common. » The aim of this amendment is therefore to remedy the shortcomings of this budget in the field of sports practice in schools.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u441	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u442	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u443	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u444	Physical and sports education deserves special attention, of course, given the importance that we recognize to sport from the perspective of Paris 2024 and more generally with a health concern that you have just rightly recalled. The beginning of your remarks, Ms. Rubin, is a tribute to the publicity that we have been able to give to the "30 minutes of daily physical activity" operation, which represents real progress on health issues at primary school. As far as the second level is concerned, in the first years of the quinquennium we have had to deal with a problem of overnumbering, which is well known to all those who follow the national education budget. We have over 30,000 EPS teachers. The problem of overnumbering has thus been resolved during these three re-entrys, as evidenced by the fact that there are very few contract workers in physical and sports education. This subject is now behind us, because of the rise of the EPS, linked in particular to a very important innovation of this new year, which I invite everyone to look closely at: I want to talk about the creation of the special education EPS within the framework of the general baccalaureate, which is already a reality in several high schools in France in this new year. In this context, there may be additional recruitment in SPS and this budget provides for 20 additional posts in SPS. The attention we pay to it is therefore indisputable and attested by this budgetary reality.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u445	I call Mr Tolmont to support Amendment No. 513.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u446	I recall that social funds allow institutions to provide exceptional assistance to families most in need. They aim to accompany the corrective mechanisms of social and material inequalities between families so that the success of all the students is at the rendezvous. However, we know how much, Minister, the health crisis has proved to be a magnifying mirror of educational and social inequalities, which has made these funds more necessary than ever. You put forward the reason for their under-utilization to justify the fairly significant decrease in these credits in 2020. We consider that, in this particular context, what you are proposing for 2022 is insufficient. We therefore propose to increase the appropriations allocated to social funds by EUR 30 million. This boost would enable an information campaign to be launched for the educational teams on this necessary device, which must be more visible and accessible to all families.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u447	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u448	The health crisis was indeed able to increase the social difficulties and fragility of part of the school population. €50 million is earmarked for social funds in 2022, compared to €46.6 million in 2021. This is an increase of almost 10 % in the amount of EUR 1 billion. There is a great disparity in needs across academies. I therefore asked DGESCO, the Directorate-General for School Education, about this. The survey carried out in 2021 shows that the amount of social funds entered in the initial finance law for 2021, added to the balance sheets of the EPLE as at 31 December 2020, ensures that the needs of each level of education are covered by the evolution of the number of pupils in EPLE. A survey will be conducted in 2022 to measure the economic and social consequences of the health crisis for families and to optimize the distribution of resources among academies. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u449	I call Mrs Sabine Rubin to support Amendment No. 723.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u450	It is also a matter of a plethora of social funds for schools, this time amounting to EUR 60 million. Apparently, I don't have the same figures as you, because I see, for my part, not an increase but a decrease. Indeed, this PLF allocates €49609540 to social funds, while in 2019 they received €59 million. Why such a decline in two years? We cannot, of course, satisfy ourselves with a justification for underutilisation of these appropriations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u451	I call Mrs Michèle Victory to support Amendment No. 498.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u452	This amendment aims to strengthen the capacity of the RASED, which we all know is important for strengthening teaching teams and helping parents. In the unprecedented context of the crisis, the school institution cannot really deprive itself of their skills, especially since the needs that existed before the health crisis have obviously not disappeared. A moratorium on the closure of RAED posts would allow for a thorough mapping of needs, in conjunction with the national RAED collective. There are probably large differences between academic constituencies, but it is still a tool that needs to be used more.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u453	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u454	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u455	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u456	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u457	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u458	The minister has rightly said that care must be taken not to have the CDMH take over social difficulties that are not the responsibility of the CDMH. I share this view: the overstaffing, the difficulties encountered by the educational community have sometimes led to the referral of families to care for the disability for difficulties falling within the scope of another care. Well! Our colleague's amendment, which seeks to strengthen the capabilities of the RAEDs, is a response to your concern, Minister. These networks, as their name suggests, bring together E and G teachers, specialized in the care of children with multiple difficulties, other than disability. That is why I am convinced that you will give a favourable opinion to the moratorium that we are asking for in order to get the RAEDs out of the abyss where they are.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u459	I call Mrs Michèle Victory to support Amendment No. 544.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u460	It aims to increase the amount of funds for teacher training by 30 million. This mainly concerns continuing training throughout the career, which should allow the teacher to continue to deepen the teaching content, depending on the needs but also the demands: team requests or targeted requests. It can be seen how limited the scope of the academic training plan has been in schools. In addition, it is mainly geared towards the expectations of the institution and does not open up so many opportunities for teachers to implement other skills, which are nevertheless important for their personal development and career. In terms of lifelong learning and career development, much better can be done.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u461	The draftswoman has the floor to support Amendment No. 402.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u462	This amendment by the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education aims to extend the REP and REP + bonus to education assistants. EDAs participate fully in the life of the school, especially in such important areas as citizenship learning or combating school violence and harassment. As teachers, however, they suffer from the difficulty inherent in the REP and REP+ institutions. That is why we believe it is important for them to be able to benefit from these bonuses, which would also increase the attractiveness of these posts.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u463	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u464	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u465	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u466	I had the opportunity earlier to stress, as the draftsman has just done, the essential role of education assistants, as well as the sensitivity that must be given to the issues of purchasing power for this and other categories, but I have also indicated the specificities of this function. Under the new measures, they will be eligible for overtime from 1 January. This will change the reality of many of them, who provide great service to certain aspects of the institution's life. For this reason, I am against the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u467	Mr Frédéric Reiss has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u468	Extending to the EDAs of the REPs and REPs + the premium received by the teachers of the priority education obviously starts with a good feeling. On the other hand, 23.5 million on the 139 private first- and second-degree education programme – which you did not say, Madam draftsman – shows an abyssal lack of knowledge of the structure of this programme. I know that the rule of the game of a finance bill is to take one side to give on the other, but why consider, as you do in your report, that the increase in appropriations for actions 01 and 02 of programme 139 would be disproportionate? The figures of the Court of Auditors are implacable, as the Minister would say: from 2012 to 2020, the appropriations of the 139 programme increased by 7.6% compared with 26.2% for those of 140 and 13.2% for 141. I am also surprised that you did not take the time to audition the representatives of private education before writing your report. I would remind you that the constraint on programme 139 is such that, with the exception of the employment ceiling in Title II, it does not involve almost any expenditure which is not compulsory. Even rectorate officials responsible for private sector monitoring are funded from this programme. Supporting educational assistance staff is good, but not at the expense of private education.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u469	Has the amendment been withdrawn, Madam draftswoman?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u470	No, Mr. President. This is an amendment by the committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u471	This does not prevent you from removing it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u472	If that were the case, we'd take it back.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u473	I would like to reply to Mr Reiss. At my request, private Catholic education provided me with a written contribution explaining that the differences noted in my report are essentially related to a difference between the social contributions of public and private education.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u474	You are entitled to withdraw the amendment, Madam draftswoman. Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u475	We can, of course, withdraw the amendments, but we can also maintain them to put them to the vote!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u476	I recall the Rules of Procedure, and I ask the question...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u477	I can hear you, but you do it with insistence. In my view, not only is this amendment going in the right direction, but it is the minimum that can be done.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u478	The minimum union!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u479	Education assistants have a difficult job, often in very precarious conditions, such as the AESH. Those working in PER do not want to work overtime: above all, they want to be more numerous, as the human presence in priority education is essential to care for the young, and they want to be better paid and recognized. I thought they were already receiving the bonus. I am therefore surprised that you are not happy with a common-sense amendment. Our colleague Cécile Rilhac is courageous and I am sure that she will be followed by the walkers who have no imperative mandate and who will vote with both hands.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u480	I call Mrs Sabine Rubin to support Amendment No. 621.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u481	The importance of education assistants has just been recalled: beyond the monitoring of grids, corridors or canteens, beyond the fight against violence... they participate in the life of the school. Yet, as the number of students increases, the recruitment of education assistants has been waiting for years. I'm talking about the AEDs, which we used to call the pawns. It's often a student job, and that's why I'm not in favour of an increase in the number of hours to guarantee a better salary, but rather a raise in salary, quite simply. I am also not in favour of the idea that EDAs are students in preparation or pre-professionalization to become teachers; This could possibly be the case for teaching assistants, but it should not be confused. We stressed the importance of their missions and where the work is more difficult in PER and REP+. The purpose of this amendment is therefore to experiment in the Seine-Saint-Denis department, where a large number of schools are in REP or REP+, a staff of one AED for fifty pupils instead of one AED for one hundred pupils as is currently the case. This provision, which would represent an annual cost of EUR 14 million, would make it possible to experiment with the strengthening of school life in territories that include many schools under priority education, but also many incivilities.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u482	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u483	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u484	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u485	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u486	I have before me two amendments, Nos 400 and 711, which can be discussed jointly. I call Mrs Cécile Rilhac, draftsman of the opinion, to support Amendment No. 400 of the Committee on Cultural Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u487	It is intended to compensate for the remainder of the current burden of paying the salaries of education assistants in agricultural technical education. Indeed, while in the PLF for €20228144 are budgeted for the remuneration of an AED practising in national education, only €26980 is provided for in agricultural technical education. This obliges the agricultural technical establishments to put to the pot, if I may say, that is to say to finance the rest of the burden by taking on their operating money. The purpose of this amendment is to ensure that the entire salary of the EDAs is borne by the State budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u488	I call Mrs Clémentine Autain to support Amendment No. 711.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u489	I am very shocked that our House did not adopt the amendment that allowed the REP-exercised DDAs to receive the same bonus as the teachers – this should have been a reality for quite some time now.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u490	Oh, yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u491	I wonder if colleagues who have opposed it have an idea of what a PER institution is and how difficult it is. At some point, we have to talk about concrete things. I am elected from the Seine-Saint-Denis: again this week, as in previous weeks, it was necessary to meet the rectorate after a young person was violently assaulted on the outskirts of his school, Blaise Cendrars High School. There were not enough overseers. Parents and teachers have mobilized to denounce the lack of resources dedicated to the supervision of this school of 1200 students – currently there are seven jobs. But what did the rectorate propose? To assign the AEDs responsible for pedagogy to the monitoring missions – i.e. to undress Paul to dress Jacques. All this because there is not enough EDA to mobilise in these situations which are repeated. In Sevran, a young man rang by himself at the door of the establishment, bloody; he was prescribed many days of ITT (total incapacity for work), after almost losing an eye. The following week, parents mobilized at the Collège des Mousseaux in Villepinte, after a young man was beaten. The same answer from the rectorate: we do not have the means for the AEDs. Forgive me, but we must not only grant them this bonus, but above all, we must help the educational community in concrete terms in situations such as those I have just mentioned in Seine-Saint-Denis, as this department is sorely lacking in human resources – I am speaking with knowledge. I beg you to hear this request.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u492	What is the committee's opinion on these amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u493	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u494	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u495	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u496	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u497	The majority, in the opinion of the minister, have just refused education assistants to receive the REP bonus and, at the same time, proposes that the increase in their wages be effected through overtime: it is the famous rhyme of "working more" for, allegedly, "earning more", which consists for many of the people concerned of chaining overtime while only a revalorisation of the index and therefore wages would allow them to get out of precariousness. Minister, I would like to ask you a first question, bearing in mind the spirit of the law for a school of trust: what missions do you intend to entrust to education assistants in the context of overtime? Will they remain assigned to their educational functions or do you think they will be assigned new missions? Then, this work was long carried out by students. This is not always the case at present, since it is a real function, often occupied by people whose main job it is; However, in terms of status and wage arrangements, they continue to be subject to conditions similar to those of paid employment or student employment. It is urgent to get out of this model.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u498	That's not the point.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u499	You who, in the majority, dress up the defenders of non-violence and student safety, know that the education assistants are making a significant contribution to maintaining a peaceful environment in schools and that we need them. Therefore, they must be valued and better considered, adequately trained and paid.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u500	I call Mr Falorni to support Amendment No. 499.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u501	It aims to strengthen the appropriations for agricultural technical education by EUR 20 million, so that it has the necessary resources to meet its needs and ambitions. Despite the rebound in the number of students in agricultural technical education in 2019-2020, the multi-year employment pattern continues to apply. Eighty FTEs were abolished in 2021, following the abolition of fifty FTEs in 2019 and then sixty FTEs in 2020. While generation renewal is far from guaranteed in the agricultural sector and 215,000 farmers, or 45% of the agricultural population, will claim their pension rights by 2026, there is an urgent need to train young people. The aim of this amendment is therefore to restore the jobs that have been abolished in public and private agricultural education over the last three years to a total of EUR 20 million.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u502	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u503	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u504	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u505	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u506	Mrs Clementine Autain has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u507	This amendment addresses a very important issue. I am also pleased that the battle we have waged in the Gonesse triangle, which has highlighted the needs of an urban agriculture where jobs of the future can develop, leads to the creation of an agricultural high school in this territory – even if I will not go into the details of the confrontation with the Government on this project. It is essential that new resources be devoted to the development of agricultural high schools. But it happens that in Sevran an agricultural high school will be set up, but it will be a private high school: that of Vaujours having closed, we had announced our availability to host one, but no proposals were made from the public sector. It will therefore be a secular private high school, not a public high school. I assure you that, as Members of Parliament, if we had obtained the means and the impetus of national education, we would have been happy to have hosted an agricultural high school in the public sphere. I would like the minister to answer on this point.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u508	Mr Frédéric Reiss has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u509	I support this amendment: technical agricultural education deserves our full attention, as there is a renewed interest on the part of students. The Teaching to produce otherwise program, for transitions and agro-ecology, for example, is very interesting. That is why it is important to increase the credits dedicated to this teaching.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u510	I call Mr Tolmont to support Amendment No. 549.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u511	It aims to restore forty-six FTEs in agricultural high schools to enable quality education, in line with the timetables and the reform of the baccalaureate. The aim is to ensure a minimum supply of optional teachings in accordance with the curriculum standards and timetables, estimated at 30000 hours, but also to ensure the equivalent of one option per high school, which we estimate at 23328 hours, and finally to cover the needs arising from the reform of the general baccalaureate by allowing the secondary schools to propose the teachings in complementary or expert mathematics, i.e. 9504 hours, and in agronomy, i.e. 6480 hours, which would amount to a total of 15984 hours. [[Applause on the SOC benches. – Mrs Muriel Ressiguier also applauds]] The re-establishment of a teaching resource equivalent to 69,312 hours, or 46 FTEs, is therefore necessary in order to begin to upgrade these training tools, namely public agricultural lycées.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u512	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u513	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u514	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u515	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u516	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u517	I thank my colleagues for their amendments defending public agricultural education. The latter must be supported – it is a major issue, as the issues of ecological transition and bifurcation are central to it. [[Ms. Muriel Ressiguier applauds]] The methods of financing agricultural education correspond to different interests: on the one hand, public education is complete and allows students in agricultural studies to have access to general subjects; On the other hand, private education is most often the business of lobbyists who have an interest in perpetuating an agricultural model that leads us straight into the wall. In agricultural and other fields, we expect the Government to defend public education.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u518	I call Mrs Sabine Rubin to support Amendment No. 713.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u519	I am surprised that the Minister did not speak about the EDAs and their strengthening; I am also surprised at the absence of the Minister for Agriculture, as we deal with agricultural education, which is closely linked to our ambitions in terms of forklifting and ecological transition. The reform of the high school has particularly affected agricultural education, which is at a disadvantage compared to other national educational institutions. For example, students in agricultural high schools have no choice between twelve specialties – the choice of too few specialties also concerns some general high schools – but only between biology, physics and mathematics. We're running out of hours. We therefore propose to provide agricultural establishments with the means to ensure a full range of specialties, equivalent to 46 full-time equivalents.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u520	I call Mrs Sabine Rubin to support Amendment No. 712.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u521	It's the same as the previous one!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u522	No, he's different. After denouncing the low remuneration of the AEDs and the lack of specialties in agricultural lycées, I observe here that the hours of personalized accompaniment provided in agricultural technical education, for students in the technological field, are applied a coefficient of reduction: one hour taught is paid only half an hour. Exceptions of this type are numerous in agricultural education; These are all ways to undress him. This provision allows the Ministry of Agriculture to remove twenty FTEs. It has the effect of weakening the accompaniment of students, which is essential to their success. We ask that these twenty FTEs be maintained.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u523	I have before me six amendments, Nos 463, 539, 683, 714 and 507, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 683 and 714 are identical. I call Mr Michel Castellani to support Amendment No. 463.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u524	It aims to strengthen the budgetary resources dedicated to public agricultural education; It is essential to promote and safeguard agriculture and to ensure the renewal of generations among farmers.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u525	On Amendments Nos 683 and the same, I have a request from the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. I call Mr Tolmont to support Amendment No. 539.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u526	We must repeat this: the environmental and social challenges we face – the renewal of generations among farmers, in particular – need to strengthen public agricultural education, so that it can regain an educational ambition and have the means to deploy it. Since you like the numbers, minister, consider that before the path of job elimination in the public agricultural education you hired, 1000 jobs had been created there during the previous quinquennium, by Stéphane Le Foll. Last year, we defended an amendment to restore the eighty jobs that were to be abolished in 2021. This year, we are asking that the 16 positions planned to be abolished by the PLF be re-established at the very least.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u527	I call Mr Sebastien Jumel to support Amendment No. 683.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u528	[[Ms. Sylvie Tolmont smiles]] Our amendments are not just here to piss the world off, you know. I'm sorry to say this with such simplicity, but they raise a central problem: half of the farmers will retire by 2030, hence a challenge of renewal of the generations – the same question also arises for fishermen and maritime high schools. For many years, agricultural education has suffered a crisis and a reduction in its budgetary resources. Its budget is certainly on the rise for 2022, but you are still planning to abolish posts; Therefore, you do not respond to the issue of renewal of generations. We want to protect the specific nature of agricultural education – including its attachment to the Ministry of Agriculture and Food – while preserving the staff of these schools and their dense territorial mesh, which is crucial to facilitate access to these courses. The term "agricultural education" must be supplemented by the mention "sciences of life and territories", to take into account the changes in society and the challenges on which my colleagues have drawn your attention, in particular the adaptation to agro-environmental issues and the expectations of our fellow citizens. Finally, we must provide ourselves with the means to make the promotion of agricultural education truly and concretely possible. [[Ms. Muriel Ressiguier applauds]] Once again, we do not table amendments to please ourselves; They are responding to a major problem: 200,000 farmers and 13,000 farm managers will retire by 2030. If we don't form new ones, food sovereignty, it'll be bullshit, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. We will not guarantee our food sovereignty under these conditions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u529	I call Mrs Clémentine Autain to support Amendment No. 714.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u530	I fully agree with Mr Jumel. Paradoxically, while the number of students in public agricultural education has been increasing steadily over the past 10 years, the Government plans to abolish teachers in 2022. We're walking on the head! This sector should be accompanied and propelled to accompany developments in agricultural policy and respond to environmental challenges. Unfortunately, this is not the case. You lack not only a strong educational ambition, but also a strategic vision of the transformation of agricultural policy. We're going in the wall! In line with the recommendations of the first trade union in this sector, the SNETAP-FSU – the National Union of Public Agricultural Technical Education – we ask that no jobs be abolished in public agricultural education, and that the related budget line be abounded by a transfer of credits from private agricultural education, the number of which has decreased over the last ten years.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u531	I call Mr Michel Castellani to support Amendment No. 507.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u532	Here again, agricultural education must be strengthened. This amendment by Sylvia Pinel aims to restore the jobs which the PLF plans to abolish in this teaching, in abundance Action 01 of the 143 programme.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u533	What is the opinion of the Finance Committee on these amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u534	Unfavorable. I propose to give the floor to the rapporteur for an opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u535	The draftswoman has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u536	I will respond to Mrs Autain's remark about the development of the Gonesse triangle, on which parliamentarians – particularly those in Val-d'Oise – have mobilized. We have obtained confirmation that the future school city of the Gonesse triangle will have a public agricultural high school, within the framework of a mixed structure offering multi-purpose education, from vocational and technological education to higher education. This public facility is expected to open at the edge of 2024.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u537	It's better than a ski trail!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u538	What if we're not in Val-d'Oise?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u539	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u540	Maybe he'll talk about the other departments...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u541	I usually avoid anglicism, but, since it's fashionable, I'm tempted to make a fact-checking of your interventions, to extract the counter-truths. Thus, I invite you not to spread inaccurate information about the important project of the Gonesse triangle; It will soon be ripe and will make it possible to announce good news, in keeping with your expectations. I will respond to your amendments as a whole, in accordance with the wishes of the President. Again, we can start from a common observation: agricultural education is an opportunity for the French system – I have always said so. Let us never give in to the temptation to compete or compete with the agricultural education that depends on the Ministry of Agriculture and the one that depends on national education – I am perfectly opposed to such an approach. On the contrary, I have constantly referred to agricultural education, particularly in the context of the reform of the high school, in particular by integrating into it an ecological discipline which now has an effect on general education. A smaller structure can therefore have an influence on a larger one. Agricultural education is indeed a teaching of the future – perhaps I am a little less visionary than you, Mrs Autain, but I am fully aware that it is part of the necessary ecological transition. Unfortunately, you are not listening to the answer to the questions you have asked... Please be aware that the Ministry of National Education has signed an agreement with the Ministry of Agriculture to encourage college students to join agricultural education, when this corresponds to their wishes and projections in the future. This has led to a rebound in enrolment in agricultural education, following the decline in recent years, and the corresponding budget is growing in 2022. Far from seeing any decline of which we would be complicit, we welcome the rebound in student enrolment – which we wanted – and the rebound in the budget – which we want for 2022, and which will, I hope, receive your approval. We therefore support agricultural education in this budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u542	[[Smile]] It is therefore an opinion in favour of the amendments, if I understand correctly. Or I didn't get it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u543	I put to the vote identical amendments Nos 683 and 714.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u544	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 41 Number of votes cast 40 Absolute majority 21 For adoption 13 Against 27
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u545	I call Mrs Michèle Victory to support Amendment No. 729.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u546	This amendment is intended to ensure mandatory duplication in agricultural technical establishments. The General Council for Food, Agriculture and Rural Areas, in a report submitted in 2020, recognized that the reform of the duplication thresholds in agricultural technical education was primarily linked to the reduction in the number of FTEs in schools that had been decided by the Government. Thus, the thresholds for the duplication of classes, in addition to being increased by three pupils, have become indicative and non-compulsory. The other announced objective of the reform was to support the increase in the number of pupils in agricultural technical education. However, the announced target has not been achieved. Finally, it is not possible to have more students, nor to have a quality apprenticeship, because safety conditions are not always respected, especially during the work being conducted. The issue of thresholds is therefore particularly important.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u547	Mr Christophe Naegelen has the floor to support Amendment No. 693.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u548	Ms. Béatrice Descamps welcomed the introduction of the cultural pass from the fourth grade. She pointed out, however, that culture should be present for children from primary school. It therefore proposes to use the EUR 20 million increase in the budget to enable young people, from primary school onwards, to have access to cultural places.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u549	Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor to support Amendment No. 600.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u550	Indeed, there is also culture in life! The aim of this amendment is to double the funds allocated to artistic and cultural education (EAC) courses so that each of our children will have an informed access to artistic works and receive a teaching that will enable them to understand and move. We know the three pillars on which we must work: the encounter with the work and the artist, the practice that requires the understanding of languages and the construction of a look to teach us to distinguish and judge. I know we agree on the basic objectives, but we do not always agree on the tools. We see culture as a consumerist tool with a high budget compared to that of school education, without its results being clearly assessed. So this is not the right answer for us. Minister, you often talk about the Choral Plan that I care about and that I would like it to achieve its ambitions. In my department, for example, a very committed association in the field of culture is commissioned to train twenty choir leaders. For the school year 2021-2022, 90% of the funding for this training comes from the Bettencourt Foundation, the remaining 10% coming from your ministry. The financing of this plan is therefore completely uncertain. We cannot work properly on the future if we do not have sustainable funding.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u551	Mrs Sandrine Mörch has the floor to support Amendment No. 748.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u552	Minister, you say that the French language "is a precious treasure that we are destined to share with all our students." I fully agree with you. Moreover, the teaching of the French language to newly arrived allophone students is at the heart of the integration strategy within our Republic. The reception of allophone pupils is ensured within the schools by specific structures known as teaching units for allophone pupils arriving (UPE2A). In the first year of teaching by UPE2A, intensive French education of a weekly duration of 9 hours minimum in the first degree and 12 hours minimum in the second degree is organised, with attendance times in the ordinary class where the student is enrolled. This teaching is popular. It is a solution. However, the mission relating to the obstacles to access to education for the children of France entrusted to me by the Prime Minister and you, Mr. Minister, has highlighted the need to increase the weekly teaching time of French in the UPE2A devices, beyond the efforts made by the State in this field for a decade. According to the testimonies of teachers and school mediators, a number of allophone pupils do not have sufficient knowledge of the French language despite their passage into UPE2A and end up for this reason obtaining from their new host institution.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u553	Mr François Ruffin has the floor to support Amendments Nos 665, 666 and 679, which can be put together.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u554	"Animator" is a word I love very much. Indeed, this word comes from animus, it touches the soul; This raises the question of how this soul is awakened, how it is stimulated, especially in children or adolescents. The school can participate, but sometimes it also creates a feeling of discouragement among children. It is necessary that there are other places next to the school, where they feel valued. Will it involve theatre, music, manual activities or handball? We don't know in advance, but there are clicks to produce in childhood. It seems to me that this is one of the roles of facilitators: trying to produce clicks in children. Today, animators and facilitators – most often they are facilitators – survive with an average of 580 euros per month, with part-time work. The time during which they prepare their activities is not taken into account. When it comes to building a wooden spaceship, what tools will we take? It takes time to pick them and put them in the van. No meeting time for teamwork is recognized. As we have said about accompanying students with disabilities, they feel that their work loses its meaning when more and more children are assigned to them at the same time: among children under the age of 6, the maximum number of children per group has increased from ten to fourteen; In those over the age of six, we went from fourteen to eighteen. How do you do activities, how do you set up a musical, how do you teach kids how to use a saw when you have to look after 18 children? With this series of amendments, I would ask you, minister, to seek recognition of the profession of facilitator and facilitator. According to a recent survey, 82 per cent of the employment structures report that they face recruitment difficulties. How can these difficulties be solved? It is obvious: by improving wages, improving working hours and improving working conditions so that their profession retains its meaning.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u555	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u556	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u557	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u558	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u559	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u560	Minister, this is the only time in the discussion where the role of "out-of-school" facilitators will be discussed, those who "turn around the school." As much as I care about the term "facilitator", I do not like the term "out-of-school": it is not something peripheral, but activities that have their place in the school and that often take place inside the school. There is not even an estimate of the number of facilitators in the country today. Minister, the fact that you stand up and say a few words would be a sign of recognition and would make it possible to get this profession out of invisibility and silence.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u561	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u562	Ah, you just had to insist a little!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u563	I never want to give the feeling that I don't want to answer, but I think we're in a hurry. Mrs Mörch, you know that I care about the situation of allophone pupils. There are budget improvements for next year; We are also working on qualitative improvements. I obviously agree with the spirit of your appeal amendment. Mr Ruffin, I agree with you in recognizing the very important role of school facilitators. Since 2017, I stress the importance of what they do, for example through the Wednesday plan. The consolidation of national education, youth and sports into one ministry, since July 2020, allows us to have a comprehensive view of the subject, in connection with the local authorities, since, as you know, the facilitators fall within the competence of the local authorities. The amendments you have tabled raise a number of problems – firstly, as often, with regard to the budget lines on which you draw these new resources, but also and above all because you are planning to finance them on the basis of the territorial educational projects (PEDT), which exist only in a limited number of municipalities that have entered the Wednesday plan or other arrangements. From a technical point of view, it would be difficult. I am obviously in favour of improving the remuneration of school facilitators, as well as that of all those who have a small salary in our system. In this case, they are staff of local authorities; It must therefore be discussed with them, in the context of the rise of extracurricular activities in the coming times. Of course, I pay tribute to the facilitators. You said very well earlier that it is often through extracurricular activities that some clicks can occur. I invite everyone to look at what has been done in terms of sport as well as artistic and cultural education, both in school time and in extracurricular time. Victory referred to the Choral Plan, which is part of the "100% ABC" logic that is already a reality in some places, for example in the Rennes Academy. Finally, I indicated in my opening remarks that the pass culture would apply from 1 January 2022 to all students in France from the fourth class.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u564	Amendment No 709 by Mrs Muriel Ressiguier is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u565	I call Mr Michel Castellani to support Amendment No. 470.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u566	The purpose of this amendment is to defend the progress of the law of 21 May 2021 on the heritage protection and promotion of regional languages, known as the Molac Act.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u567	[[Smile]] It's very important, you have to take a little time to talk about it, actually!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u568	Ah, the Britons!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u569	I call Mr Michel Castellani to support Amendment No. 462.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u570	The purpose of this amendment is to strengthen budgetary support for the Canopé network, which is known to be important and which is regularly threatened.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u571	I call Mr Tolmont to support Amendment No. 510.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u572	This amendment aims to increase the number of ULIS schools. The Government announces the establishment of 250 ULIS lycées during the quinquennium. A similar investment is needed from the first level to ensure that all students have access to suitable accompanying devices.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u573	Mrs Annie Chapelier has the floor to support Amendment No. 682.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u574	You will allow me to elaborate a little on my point, given the importance of the subject: this amendment deals with sexuality education. Michel Serres, who had recently disappeared, had a great deal of passion for this digital-oriented youth. The aim of this amendment is to establish an education on sexuality which would start from the middle school onwards, using digital tools, which are insufficiently used today, to raise awareness and provide information to students. This would help to detect cases of abuse, since this online teaching could be accompanied by a chat tool. This tool is not used for the education of our children and your ministry is therefore lagging behind in taking into account the evolution of a society totally digitally oriented – this is particularly the case for young people. The movement of appropriations that we are proposing remains very modest. In addition to being effective because it would affect all students without distinctions as to family or institution, it does not require significant recruitment – only some organization and the application of current techniques.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u575	Mrs Sylvie Charière has the floor to support Amendment No. 586.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u576	The mission to combat early school leaving (MLDS) has two aims: to reduce, through preventive measures, the number of exits without diplomas and to take care of pupils over 16 years of age for a recognised re-schooling or qualification, for a sustainable social and vocational integration. Since the beginning of the quinquennium, the Government has mobilized for the success of our youth, including by voting for a strong measure: the obligation to train 16-18-year-olds. This measure aims to put an end to the dry outings of the school system and is linked with many other measures related to the orientation and integration of young people. The decline in funding for vocational integration assistance – a decline that we intend to cancel – does not correspond to the government's ambitions since the beginning of the quinquennium and risks reducing the capacity of the MLDS to act – all the more crucial because of the health crisis and the objectives of the "1 young person, 1 solution" plan. A minimum of EUR 1.79 million should be returned to the previous appropriations allocated to MLDS. Thus, we could even propose actions in favour of the 20,000 young people who drop out before the end of the third class.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u577	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u578	I welcome Ms. Carrière's work on dropping out of school since the beginning of the legislature and, in my personal capacity, I express a favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u579	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u580	I also welcome the work done by Mrs Charière on this issue, the essential nature of which, as everyone knows, has led us to decide, what is being said too little, that we want only one young person between the ages of 16 and 18 is left without training or jobless. For the past ten years, I have had the opportunity to return during the health crisis, France succeeds in reducing the number of dropouts every year. We must welcome this, but there is still a long way to go, which requires the strategies proposed in your report for the implementation of the training obligation for young people between the ages of 16 and 18. The aim is to better identify drop-outs and offer them customized solutions. This is a decisive societal issue, which is why I have carefully considered your amendment. This reality is obviously not limited to financial matters – on this point as on others. Qualitative and coordination challenges have been met rather well. It is good to send a political signal – in order to show that it is a priority for us – and to give us the financial means to make further progress. I therefore express a favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u581	Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor to support Amendment No. 700.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u582	This amendment by Mr Garot concerns moral and civic education in agricultural vocational schools. We regret that the EMC is dispensed in the first and final classes but not in the second classes, while it offers the means to understand contemporary issues, to appropriate the values of the Republic. We therefore propose that the second classes should receive half an hour a week of this essential education.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u583	On the appropriations of the mission, I am seized by the group La France insoubted of a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. I call Mrs Sabine Rubin to support Amendment No. 725.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u584	We propose to provide free textbooks and unmarked supplies to students in public schools through a support fund for local authorities, which could also allow some students to benefit from free meals in the canteen – this was the subject of Amendment No 724 which was not supported. School supplies and canteens represent a real cost to the poorest families.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u585	Mrs Sabine Rubin once again has the floor to support Amendment No. 704.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u586	With this amendment, we want to put an end to the precarisation of staff and denounce the widespread use of contract workers rather than the supplementary list for the recruitment of teachers in schools. You recalled just now the need to make priority use of people who have the level required to be good teachers. Therefore, why would you prefer to hire contract workers who are never taught, rather than candidates for the competitions on the supplementary list? In La Réunion, fourteen of the receipts on the supplementary list were recruited by the Rectorate during a contract recruitment campaign, while there was a shortage of teachers. The amendment is therefore intended to encourage the recruitment of staff who have already made the effort to pass the competition.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u587	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u588	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u589	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u590	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u591	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u592	I asked for the floor on the previous amendment, Mr President, which is why I come back to it. Really, Minister, the free school, to my surprise, is a central concern for the families I went to listen to. It's strange enough for us who thought school was already free. In fact, for modest families, when they add notebooks, books, extracurricular activities or canteen, the school appears not only to be paying but even expensive. It is therefore necessary to take action. Although the amendments that have just been defended are appeal amendments, they raise the essential question of free school for the popular classes. I am not saying that the financial barrier is the only one that can make school a success, but it is still a barrier and the finance bill can help lift it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u593	I put to the vote the credits of the School Education mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u594	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 31 Number of votes cast 31 Absolute majority 16 For adoption 24 Against 7
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u595	I now call the amendments to the supplementary article after Rule 42. Mr François Ruffin has the floor to support Amendment No. 703.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u596	Minister, we found that we did not agree on mutualization. There is even a gap between our interpretations: you say that it goes in the right direction while I maintain that it makes a number of AESH lose their sense of work. We therefore ask you for a report showing the state of care for pupils with disabilities. This tool seems to us necessary to take stock of the inclusive school. Is that the success you're using or the low cost formula I'm talking about?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u597	Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor to support Amendment No. 547.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u598	We would like the Government to submit to Parliament, within six months of the enactment of the Act, a report on school education contractors. When we spoke in the autumn of 2020 about the tenure of contract workers, and after an amendment similar to that one had been voted on, you promised, Minister, that you would give us all the details on this matter. It's almost 2022, it's your last budget. I really wish you would have kept your word and presented us with figures. That is why I have tabled this amendment again.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u599	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u600	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u601	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u602	I would point out to you, honourable Member, that the report in question does exist and is at your disposal. Your amendment is therefore satisfactory.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u603	The draftswoman has the floor to support Amendment No. 745 as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u604	I ask for a report assessing the cost of teaching discharges for directors or directors according to the specifics of the school. This request is in line with the proposed legislation under consideration, creating the position of principal or principal. The specificities in question relate to a wide range of fields ranging from the number of pupils to the territorial characteristics, including the inclusion of children with disabilities or special needs. If we wish to grant one more half-day of discharge to directors who have an ULIS class or more than 12 students with disabilities in their school, we must now assess the cost of doing so in order to prepare for the future. That is the whole point of this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u605	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u606	Favourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u607	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u608	I share the view that, as a matter of principle, the Government is seeking not to add the reports to the reports. However, I agree, on the substance, with Mrs Rilhac's wish. I therefore rely on the wisdom of the House.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u609	We have completed the review of the School Education Mission. The continuation of the budget discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1030.u610	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one thirty: Further discussion of the second part of the 2022 Finance Bill: Review of Sport, Youth and Associative Life Mission Credits. The meeting is adjourned.
