ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u1	The next item is the oral questions without debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u2	Mr Sylvain Templier has the floor to put his question, No. 1441, on the forests of the Great East.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u3	Mr Minister for Agriculture and Food, by storing carbon, preserving our water resources, protecting biodiversity, forests demonstrate that they are an ally more than essential to combat climate change, even though they are largely victims of climate change. For several years, the forests of the Far East have faced many aggressors. In the space of three years, the scolyte almost destroyed the massifs surrounding Verdun, including spruce forests. The forests of Haute-Marne, a department where I am elected, are not spared. Last summer, several hectares of dead trees were slaughtered there to stop the spread of the insect. As for ash trees, they are decimated by chalarosis, a pest fungus from Asia. In 2019, one third of the ash trees in the Trois-Fontaines massif were carrying it. Some scientists estimate that the disease is progressing at a speed of 60 kilometres per year. In addition, there is also the proliferation of processional caterpillars on oaks or the drought phenomena that occur in times crucial to the development of trees. These situations degrade fauna and flora as well as local economies. The recovery plan has provided EUR 200 million for forest renewal and provides significant support to the sector. We need to reforest, diversify the species, add more resistant ones, renew the plots, but also and above all, protect what can still be. While the National Assembly has just adopted the draft law on combating climate change and strengthening resilience to its effects, how and with what long-term means does the Government intend to strengthen operationally the resilience of eastern forests to the effects of climate change?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u4	The next speaker is the Minister for Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u5	Thank you, honourable Member, for focusing on the societal, environmental and economic contribution of our beautiful French forests, but also on the many challenges they face at this time, most of which are related to global warming – the proliferation of Scolyte, in particular, is due to this phenomenon that promotes the development of parasites. At least three answers can be provided. To cope with the proliferation of scolytes, which is very visible in the Greater East region, I decided at the end of last year to renew in 2021 the devices put in place by my predecessor, Didier Guillaume. In this way, I have allocated additional budgets to allow for the removal of timber and the rebuilding of the massif. If they are necessary, these devices are not enough: we must take a second step, that of reforestation of our massifs. Of the EUR 200 million of the recovery plan for forest renewal, EUR 150 million is earmarked for reforestation, of which EUR 95 million has already been allocated. We are therefore moving quickly in this area. Thirdly, it is a matter of anticipating the effects of climate change and adapting our forests to it, a very complicated exercise. To this end, we have the expertise of the National Forestry Board (NFB), whose remarkable work I welcome, the forestry communes, private owners and the actors of the entire wood industry. While it is already difficult to think long time, for the management of a forest massif it is necessary to think very long time. In particular, in the context of the reforestation plan, we must ask ourselves the question: what kind of tree should be replanted, knowing that the beech trees of Lyons-la-Forêt, for example, are subject to the effects of climate change? You talked about ash and softwood. How can we adapt our forestry practices to make our forests more resilient? The answer is species choice, diversity within a forest massif, variety research. To sum up, we have to deal with health crises in a cyclical way, and in the longer term, reforest under the recovery plan by changing forestry practices thanks to this wonderful expertise that we have in France.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u6	Mrs Nathalie Serre, speaking on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development, raised her question No 1451 on aid for arboreal and wine production.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u7	Mr Minister for Agriculture and Food, I wanted to alert you to the difficulties encountered by the marketmen in the arboriculture and wine cooperative cellars. Often forgotten, however, they are the collateral victims of the intense freezing episode that has marked our country. In my constituency, cherries producers and wine growers have experienced unprecedented frost episodes in terms of their size and duration. In the Bessenay region, cherry is a historical culture. In 2016, the brand Cherise de Bessenay was created under the impetus of the Qualifruits interprofession. These cherries are packaged and sold by two makers on the market, whose dynamic action has enabled the brand Eh Cherry to have a worldwide reputation. The wine cooperatives of Beaujolais will have to face a lower supply for the third year in a row. Recently affected by the freeze, wine growers will be affected a second time as co-operators. The wine co-operative cellars, however, have been equipped with high-performance production tools and have come together with competent specialists to guarantee perfect mastery of the upstream. At a time when I am asking this question, the extent of the damage is not yet precisely known. Some tree growers are already fearing a 50% to 100% loss of their production, which will have considerable consequences for market makers who have been investing millions of euros for years in order to face competition, especially from Spain. The market season is very short – from two to three months – and it requires the employment of many seasonal workers who come in addition to permanent staff on open-ended contracts. For cellars, the quality and quantity of the harvest will weigh heavily on the cooperative tool whose daily management is ensured by qualified personnel with the desired skills. Co-operative cellars therefore have to bear investments that cannot be delayed and large fixed costs. Producers – wine growers and arborists – were partially heard, obtaining a EUR 1 billion aid plan from the State. On the other hand, marketers and cooperative cellars, collateral victims, remain in expectation. Investors in our territories, job providers and dynamic actors of the influence of our ruralness internationally, marketers and cooperative cellars need a total commitment from the state, as well as support for economic actors during the health crisis.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u8	The next speaker is the Minister for Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u9	Thank you, honourable Member, for your solidarity with the agricultural world, which was greatly affected by the freeze that took place three weeks ago. Thank you also for reminding us that the hand of the Government had not trembled in these circumstances: we have granted aid of extreme urgency, cash flow and support. More than 20 million euros have already been distributed in the territories to those who could no longer pay their bills, having exhausted their cash in financing protection measures against freezing. We have also extended the State-guaranteed lending mechanism (GLP) and partial unemployment measures – and we have been talking about making them even more generous. Finally, we are finalizing tax and social exemption schemes. Second axis of action: compensation of production losses for professionals in the upstream sector – arborists and wine growers – but also for those in the downstream sector, including cooperatives. As you have suggested, we are precisely putting in place systems very inspired by the devices created in response to the health crisis. As far as upstream is concerned, we are going to extend the system of agricultural disasters to sectors which are currently not eligible, which poses particular problems: while this system usually takes nine months to compensate, we would like to be able to compensate for the losses of tree growers from this summer, i.e. at the end of June-early July. The department has structured itself to deal with this important issue. For the support of the industry, an exceptional fund – whose scope is being discussed with the profession – will allow to act in the same spirit as the one that prevailed to face the crisis of the covid-19. I would really like to reassure you, while greeting the downstream actors who are hard hit. The third axis concerns a structural element: crop insurance. How can we better secure production and remove this sword of Damocles that threatens farmers and all the actors in the food chain? This is an essential sovereignty issue.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u10	Mrs Nathalie Serre has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u11	[[Mrs NathalieSerreremetunsacauMinister for Agriculture and Food]] Thank you, Minister, for your answers. I know your attachment to our agriculture. Next week, May 17, the departments of the Departmental Directorate of Territories (DDT) will be visiting to monitor the damage following the freezing episode. On behalf of all the actors in the sector, I invite you to join us in this visit to our beautiful Beaujolais territory. Instead of an invitation card, I will hand you a bag of the brand Eh Cherry, a DVD of information about the business of market director and the beautiful region of Bessenay, and an award-winning bottle of one of the eight co-operative cellars of Beaujolais.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u12	What a chance!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u13	You did well to come, Minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u14	[[Smile]] Mr Jean-Félix Acquaviva may also have something to hand over to the Minister of Agriculture; In any event, he has the floor to state his question, No 1453, concerning nutri-score and signs of protected designation of origin (PDO) or protected geographical indication (PGI).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u15	Mr Minister for Agriculture and Food, the nutrient-score nutrition labelling system is currently based on the voluntary work of producers and industry, but its generalisation under discussion at Community level gives rise to fears, particularly among farmers, which I would like to share with you. While the use of a logo to enhance transparency on the nutritional value of a product may be relevant to the consumer, there are several counterproductive effects of this device. Indeed, the scale and method of calculation of the nutrient-score are such that high-quality products, made from simple natural ingredients thanks to ancestral production methods, get the mark D, or even E. For example, our brocciu or our olive oil island or the Maroilles du Nord. Some 93% of the products under protected designation of origin or protected geographical indication would be classified D whereas producers must comply with binding specifications which are regularly checked by the competent authorities, guaranteeing a single quality, in a transparent manner for consumers. On the other hand, products such as some industrial cheeses can get a much better rating. Let us admit that this is a striking paradox: at a time when we have to develop short circuits, improve traditional local production, revitalize rural and mountain areas, push for the installation of young breeders and farmers in our territories and countries, and simply promote good natural products, nutri-score would directly or indirectly enhance certain industrial products with multiple substitute ingredients. If the methods of implementing the nutrient-score did not change, we would have to deal with a confusion and a form of indexing of our farm products, which would reveal an erroneous vision of the culinary heritage of our territories. You will understand that this is not acceptable: we cannot push the consumer to choose over-processed products, whose harmful and hidden health effects are not always taken into account. Are you ready to weigh in the European negotiations on nutri-score, in order to find an exemption or adjustment solution to the scale and to take into account the real quality of identity products? Otherwise, the situation would be very worrying.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u16	The next speaker is the Minister for Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u17	In the current state of law, nutrient-score is used on a voluntary basis. It is fairly widely supported by consumers, as evidenced by its growth, confirmed by consumer studies. In substance, everyone agrees that the indication of the nutritional quality of the food to the consumer is a good idea. After all, to paraphrase Hippocrates, diet is the first medicine. It is therefore quite normal to communicate this information to the consumer. As you said, nutri-score is the subject of debate at European level. I share the two concerns that you have expressed about the phenomena of on-board effects or circumventions that the use of this logo could cause. What are the two points that need to be dealt with with with great attention if we want nutrient-score to spread even more widely? First of all, the debate must be conducted at European level: if nutri-score were ever to become compulsory, it could only be done at European Union level. Why? Because if a consumer has the choice, on a stall, between a French food graded orange and a food graded from I don't know where, which would probably have been noted red but has no indication because it is not subject to the nutrient-score, he will probably opt for the product blank of any logo in order to avoid the orange label, even though the nutritional quality of the product without a logo is probably inferior to that of the French product. This seems to me to be very important: to avoid circumvention of the scheme, we must ensure that the debate on nutrient-score is held on a European market scale and not just on the national market. Then, as you pointed out, we need to go much further on methodology. The latter is currently based on the consumption of a certain quantity of product. But I don't know many people who drink 100 millilitres of olive oil at breakfast – it can happen, but it doesn't seem common to me. If the nutrient-score is based on the putative consumption of 100 millilitres of olive oil each morning, it will obviously display a bright red colour, without any connection to the actual consumption of the product concerned. Seven European countries are currently expressing interest in the issue of nutrient-score, on which several scientific committees are also working. For my part, I am determined: if we wish, in accordance with your wishes, to provide fair and equitable information, we must, on the one hand, deal with the issue at European level and, on the other hand, improve the methodology to ensure that the quantities on the basis of which the analyses are carried out are in line with the actual consumption of the products and not merely defined in the laboratory. I am therefore fully aware of the concerns you are raising and I am working to address them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u18	Mr Jean-Félix Acquaviva has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u19	[[Smile]] Thank you, Minister. I did not bring a Corsican charcuterie to conclude this positive exchange – perhaps I will do so next time.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u20	I can bring the wine...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u21	You have grasped the issue: destroying PGIs and PDOs at a time when we want to relocate production systems would be a truly deadly paradox.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u22	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor to put his question, No. 1457, on the pollinator protection plan.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u23	The Government is committed to developing, by 2021, a pollinator protection plan, with the legitimate and shared objective of ensuring better protection of bees during flowering periods and better taking into account pollinator-related issues when placing new plant protection products on the market. The National Agency for the Safety of Food, the Environment and the Labour (ANSES) has made recommendations which raise fears for agricultural professionals that the rules will be extremely tightened, which promises to be very penalizing for agricultural production. Among the measures mentioned are the prohibition of any plant protection treatment during flowering or the tightening of the processes for obtaining authorisations for the placing on the market of new sanitary products, although these products are generally less harmful than those they are intended to replace. The cumulation and indiscriminate application of such measures would have serious consequences on many plant productions in France, thus on the future of thousands of farms. In addition, there is a real threat of distortion of competition between France and other countries, including members of the European Union, which are not subject to such standards. In the face of these ecological, agricultural and economic challenges, it seems essential that the pollinator plan be carried out in consultation and co-construction with the agricultural world. The needs identified for better protection of bees are broader than those only binding measures: for example, ensuring the availability of bees' food resources throughout the year, ensuring better knowledge and management of species likely to attack hives, in particular hives, promoting good agricultural practices, or improving crop protection. Several working groups from the agricultural world have been set up. They have already exchanged a great deal and made proposals, both at French and European level. Are you ready to work in co-construction with the agricultural world to develop the pollinator plan and to take into account not only the ecological and protection issues of the pollinators, but also the conditions and the time that farmers will need to adapt to the new situation in the future?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u24	The next speaker is the Minister for Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u25	You have summed up the situation: the issue of pollinator protection is very important for ecosystems, for the environment and for the agricultural world. That is why the Government has committed itself to deploying a plan for pollinators comprising several actions, carried out in collaboration with the Ministry of Ecological Transition: the protection of hives and bees, the development of bees, which includes a feeding issue – it is known, for example, that there are shortages in the bees' food areas in the spring and that we can provide answers – and the revision of the conditions for the use of certain herbicides, fungicides and acaricides, as defined in a decree of 27 June 2011. On this last point, I can assure you that a great deal of consultation and consultation has been carried out, even though a few points still need to be refined, in particular concerning spraying schedules and small-scale production. It seems to me important to do so, because it is essential to take into account the constraints of each other: farmers cannot be asked to produce in a certain way without taking into account their constraints or those relating to nature, living and climatic conditions. I therefore confirm that I, like my colleagues, am committed to ensuring that the pollinators' plan, which is to be finalized shortly, is in a spirit of consultation and consultation. This method of work seems absolutely essential to me.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u26	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u27	Thank you for this answer and for your willingness to consult with the agricultural world. I will simply take an example that may seem anecdotal, but shows how important it is to be attentive to the way in which these provisions are applied. To force farmers to spray at night, between an hour and three in the morning, in addition to being technically and humanly difficult to imagine, could above all give rise to suspicion among our fellow citizens, some of whom already do not understand that products are sprayed in the fields and who might be surprised that farmers do so at such a late hour. It will therefore be necessary to ensure the clarity and intelligibility of the measures to be taken.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u28	The next speaker is Mr Patrick Loiseau, to put his question, No. 1428, on the management of agricultural crises. Like the previous ones, it is addressed to the Minister for Agriculture and Food, whom I thank for responding so precisely without reading her sheets. This is rare enough to be stressed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u29	[[Minister for Agriculture and Food]] Minister, I keep in my office a few bottles of Mareuil wine, which I unfortunately did not think of bringing you today – the time seemed a little too early. You seem to be listening to the difficulties of farmers, as evidenced by the successive regulatory adjustments implemented and the consequent budget devoted by the State to the management of agricultural disasters. Aid is mobilised through the recovery plan, amounting to EUR 100 million dedicated to adaptation to climate change. In 2019, France experienced a succession of episodes of late frost and hail, followed by two episodes of exceptional heat wave and the almost total absence of precipitation for five months. In 2020, farmers faced a third drought. Last April, as you know, orchards and vineyards struggled against frost. In my department, Vendée, the nights of the wine growers I met were agitated. The vineyard of Chantonnay, located in my constituency, has been particularly affected. If, in the face of urgency, the public response is to be prompt, however, the effectiveness of existing provisions in terms of the importance of the issues can be questioned. Global warming leads to the emergence of new dangers. The increase in climate accidents is particularly detrimental to agricultural yields and the sustainability of certain agro-systems. These risks deserve full recognition, in order to secure the means of prevention and compensation, for the time being insufficient for the producers concerned. In France, risk management tools are limited to the crop insurance offered by the National Agricultural Fund for the pooling of health and environmental risks (FMSE) and the compensation of agricultural disasters. The fund created in 2018 to deal with the latter has not awarded compensation for environmental incidents, and responsibility for combating major epidemics remains with the State. Despite the increasing levels of public subsidies granted by the State and the European Union to private insurance contracts, this system of taking over non-economic agricultural risks demonstrates its inadequacy. Insurers themselves confirm the mismatch between the contributions received and the allowances paid. As for the system of compensation for agricultural disasters, which is purely national and is financed by a tax on insurance contracts, it does not compensate arable crops more than vines and often has very long periods of payment to farms. That is what the wine growers in my constituency have confirmed to me. Finally, European legislation provides that funds such as the ISR – an income stabilization instrument – apply only to the fruit and vegetable sector. My question is therefore simple: what is the proposal of the Government, of which I know that it has already worked a great deal on this subject, to improve risk management in agriculture?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u30	The next speaker is the Minister for Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u31	Finding a solution to improve risk management will probably be the most important issue in the coming months. Let us put ourselves in the place of young farmers – bearing in mind that half of the farmers will retire over the next five years and that they will have to be replaced: while they will already have to get into debt to take over a farm, they will have to live with a sword of Damocles above their head, that is, the fear of losing one to two years of production in five due to potential hazards related to climate change. This situation becomes unmanageable. Improving it is therefore one of the main challenges – perhaps even the most important. What are the possible solutions to deal with them? In this sector, insurance is for the moment much less developed in France than in other countries: it covers 30% of field crops and vines, 6% of arboricultural areas and only 1% of grasslands. As you have said, there are a number of schemes, such as the system of agricultural disasters – which, however, some sectors, particularly those that are described as insurable, are not eligible – the crop insurance and, sometimes, the FMSE that you mentioned. Several stakeholders believe that certain criteria need to be changed, which has been being tried over the last ten years, considering that this could even make the system more attractive, which would lead to an increase in the number of contributors, thus reducing contributions. Having done a lot of work on this issue, I believe that in fact this is not the right solution. On the one hand, the 30% of insured persons, which are fairly representative of all farmers, are already faced, as you have indicated, with a deficit scheme; On the other hand, it is not by slightly changing the scope of the crop insurance that we can develop it more satisfactorily. We must therefore, first of all, completely rethink the system by having a much stronger ambition, by imagining co-insurance and reinsurance schemes, in line with what your colleague Frédéric Descrozaille has proposed, which I have mandated on the subject. Secondly, it must be assumed that the agricultural world is not in a position to finance such a project on its own, either from its own budget or from the common agricultural policy (CAP). We must therefore accept the idea that national solidarity must be used to accompany the agricultural sector, which I think is legitimate because it is the sovereignty of our country. There is no strong country without strong agriculture, there is no agriculture without farmers and farmers need a safety net.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u32	Mr. Patrick Loiseau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u33	As suggested to me by the wine growers in my department, would it not be preferable, especially in the face of freezing episodes – since climate disruption will obviously, and unfortunately, continue – to put in place preventive measures rather than ex posteriori repayment measures? I imagine, minister, you've already had this idea.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u34	Yes, we have to do both!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u35	Mrs Nicole Dubré-Chirat has the floor to raise her question, No. 1439, concerning the abolition of funeral taxes.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u36	Minister for Agriculture and Food, my question is not really about your area of attribution. The Court of Auditors, in one of its excellent recommendations, proposed further abolition and simplification of low-yield taxes. The removal of municipal funeral taxes – a total of €5 million – meets the objectives of removing a compulsory levy, reducing the burden on municipal treasurers and simplifying legislation by putting an end to inequalities between regions. This deletion was voted and acted on by section 121 of the Finance Act for 2021. This immediate implementation measure has a significant impact for about 700 municipalities in France, including Montreuil-Juigné in Maine-et-Loire. The tax on the cremation and dispersal of ashes was a financial resource of around EUR 280 to 300 000 per year, i.e. 3.5% of its operating budget and a third of its self-financing capacity. Montreuil-Juigné, who owns the second crematorium of Maine-et-Loire, is asked to do so by its residents and by those of the agglomeration and part of the department. Some municipalities had organized their fees or increased the costs of funerals and burials as a result of this change. Montreuil-Juigné did not and did not intend to do so in a significant and brutal manner this year to avoid penalizing modest families. The mayor, like the Association of Mayors of France (AMF) wanted to smooth this increase over two years or get partial compensation out of 2021. Do you think, Mr Minister, that this municipality, like others without a doubt, is being penalized by this measure, that it is possible to provide for aid or compensation arrangements this year to facilitate the transition in this field of activity which has been very much in demand for a year and a half?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u37	The next speaker is the Minister for Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u38	First of all, I would like to apologize for the absence of my colleague Jacqueline Gourault, Minister for Territorial Cohesion and Relations with Local and Regional Authorities, who asked me to provide you with the following answers. An amendment to the Finance Act for 2021 abolished the so-called funeral taxes for convoys, burials and cremations as of 1 January. In particular, this measure is the result of the Court of Auditors' recommendations for the abolition and simplification of low-yield taxes. This reform seems justified by the fact that, in practice, these taxes obviously represent an additional cost to families, since they are in addition to the price of concessions in cemeteries. Therefore, and as the Court of Auditors advocated in its reference to the Prime Minister dated 3 December 2018 – which you know – the community has every freedom to replace this tax with other resources, for example by increasing the price of funeral and film concessions. In addition, this tax applies to a limited number of communities for a minority share of their revenues. In 2019, 437 municipalities and two public institutions for inter-municipal cooperation recorded a revenue from funeral taxes in their accounts for a cumulative amount of €6.1 million, which remains fairly low. However, this product represents a maximum of 5%, and on average 0.1%, of the actual operating revenues of the communities concerned for 2019. For this reason, the Government does not intend to offset this loss of revenue by an increase in the overall operating budget. However, an analysis is currently being carried out to objectiveize the impact of this loss of revenue on the financial situation of some municipalities.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u39	Mrs Nicole Dubré-Chirat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u40	Thank you for that answer and for that clarification. I welcome the launch of an impact assessment on the situation of the few municipalities that have been penalised. They do not wish to call into question the abolition of taxes but call for progressive adjustment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u41	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor to put her question, No. 1432, on trade union repression at RATP.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u42	Mr Secretary State responsible for pensions and occupational health, there are violations of the law on which you are not heard. Silence when RATP sets up illegal files to track unionists, sick agents or strikers, but RATP obviously has the right not to comply with the laws. Silence when RATP punishes layoffs without pay Patrick, François, Yassine, and Ahmed only because they were on strike against your odious pension reform. Silence when RATP decides to revoke Alexandre El Gamal, one of the main union leaders CGT, again for strike action. However, the labour inspectorate has declared his dismissal illegal, but RATP clearly has the right to flout the constitutional right to strike and the right to work. It was already known that RATP considered itself above the law, but now its leadership is crossing a new threshold in its fierce repression against trade unionists and all those who defend their rights. Yesterday, Ahmed Berrahal, CGT trade unionist and harasser, appeared before a disciplinary board for sanctions up to dismissal. What's wrong with him? Reported a sexual assault on one of his colleagues. Do you think the RATP would have summoned the sexual attacker? No, not at all. The company preferred to sue Ahmed, the one who issued the alert. Better: she spent 50,000 euros on legal fees to justify her fake accusations. Secretary State, I would have liked you to hear yesterday the testimonies of those brave women who dared to break the silence so that, at last, shame would change sides. I am thinking of this woman, defended by Ahmed, who was touched by the breasts and was forcibly kissed, or Christelle, who was sexually assaulted at the end of her service by two colleagues three years ago. On that day, she said, she was robbed of her dignity. Were the two attackers punished? No, the case was closed and, in addition, it was she who had to change the deposit. You could also have heard the testimony of N'dylia who, two weeks after telling her leader that she was pregnant, was dismissed. The motive? She would have crushed a cyclist with her bus. After five months of suffering fighting for the truth, she miscarried and lost her twins. RATP then acknowledged that it had lied, that N'dylia had not crushed anyone, and offered her, as if nothing were happening, to return to the company. I wish you'd heard that woman yesterday explaining how she was destroyed as a mother and as a woman. All these women were defended and accompanied by Ahmed Berrahal. Following his summons to the Disciplinary Board, thirty-one women spoke to denounce gender-based and sexual violence in the company. But RATP prefers to silence the one who warns and defends his colleagues. And you, in the Government, still don't say a word. Ah, it is beautiful, the great cause of the quinquennium, equality between women and men! Secretary State, I have a first scoop for you: Elizabeth Borne is today Minister of Labour; She's no longer CEO of RATP. And I have a second one: Ahmed, Alex and all the others are trade unionists, not delinquents. Those who, like them, commit themselves to others and to the defence of our collective rights are the honour of our Republic. My question is simple: when are you finally going to act against this rogue company?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u43	The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Pensions and Occupational Health.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u44	First of all, let me put aside the readily controversial tone of your inquiry. I will provide you with some specific answers regarding the situations you have mentioned, in particular those of two RATP employees. Firstly, Mr Alexandre El Gamal, the recipient machinist, who has been employed since 2006, who has served as a member of the staff delegation to the Social and Economic Committee (SEC) and as a member of the group committee, was the subject of an application for authorisation for dismissal on disciplinary grounds addressed to the labour inspectorate on 28 September 2020. You yourself recalled that this request was refused by the Val-de-Marne Labour Inspectorate on 23 November.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u45	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u46	On 21 January 2021, RATP then filed a hierarchical appeal, which was instructed by the Directorate-General for Labour, which will give rise to a ministerial decision, notified to the parties, within the next few days. This instruction, which dealt with the legality of the decision of the labour inspectorate, the procedure followed and the complaints made against the employee, guarantees a thorough examination of the situation and, moreover, allowed to examine all aspects of the case. I come to the second employee you mentioned, Mr. Ahmed Berrahal. A case has been brought against him for misconduct. It has just begun with the holding of the internal disciplinary committee at RATP on Monday, 10 May, and it will be up to the head of the RATP centre concerned to take a decision. If it follows the procedure, you know, the SSC, and then the labour inspectorate, will in turn have to be seized. As the procedure is in progress, you do not expect me to comment on this situation. In any case, both the Labour Inspectorate and the Directorate-General for Labour will investigate all of these cases with the same rigour, in particular whether this is the first procedure or the second – I think you will agree.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u47	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u48	I didn't hear you on the illegal files, which would have been quite interesting. We will indeed see how these procedures follow their course. I still have the impression that the Government is not saying anything about the violations of the law committed by RATP. The reality is that RATP trade unionists have been at the forefront of the fight against pension reform and that opening up to competition, which will penalise employees and users, is a big deadline. It's convenient to scare the whole challenge. This helps to prevent people from mobilizing for their rights. This is the goal of RATP with its fierce repression. I'm saying here, we won't let you do it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u49	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor to put her question, No. 1454, on the consequences of the health crisis in the cultural sector.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u50	My question is to the Minister of Culture. Access to culture is now in crisis; It is called into question by the health measures taken to combat the pandemic. The crisis has been going on for some time, and some say that the return to normal will not take place until the summer of 2022. While national structures and established cultural institutions such as museums, theatres and major facilities are logically supported today and may hope to have recovered at a time when public financial support will come back, the question arises of what is called the third sector, the non-profit sector and associations. Restrictions on artistic and cultural events and groups affect associations, institutions, artists and intermittents that give life to this right for many citizens. The State and local and regional authorities must play a key role in safeguarding an important economic sector for all. In Le Mans, the theatre of the Jacobins has been occupied for several weeks by the intermittents of the show. The recovery policy launched by the European Union and France must take culture and this third sector into account in accordance with the European Parliament's resolution on the cultural revival of Europe, highlighting, among other things, the preponderance of small structures with irregular incomes. The conditions of employment and social protection for intermittent entertainment should be a priority. Proposals have been made to this effect by the organisations representing the enterprises and bodies in the sector. In order to avoid a lasting deterioration of the cultural landscape and to help maintain its diversity, some neighbouring countries have decided to compensate, at least on a flat-rate basis, for the usual or expected loss of income – ticketing, etc. – cultural actors in the third sector. A special fund to help the non-market sector should be activated and could even be financed, at least in part, by the taxation of digital giants. Whether it is at national level or at European level, the crisis makes it all the more legitimate, given that the revenues of GAFA – Google, Amazon, Facebook, Apple – are generally little or no taxed, in particular from the sale of cultural products from which they derive a large profit. At the end of April, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe adopted a resolution on digital taxation to extend social protection for precarious workers. What measures does the Government intend to take in favour of precarious workers in the third cultural sector in order to link urgent temporary aid to financing on a broader and more sustainable basis?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u51	The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Pensions and Occupational Health.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u52	I apologize for the absence of my colleague Roselyne Bachelot. I will be able to answer your question on the basis of the information she has given me. It is pointless to recall that the cultural sector has been one of the most affected by the health crisis. You have also pointed out that the Government has deployed significant financial support on which you will allow me to return for a few moments: more than 7 billion cross-cutting aid, 1.2 billion sectoral aid, 946 million euros for the white year for intermittents since March 2020. This demonstrates the Government's commitment to the role of cultural actors. The whole of the third sector, and more specifically your question, is the subject of specific support measures. Third sector and intermediate locations are also fully integrated into the recovery plan. The DRACs, the Regional Directorates for Cultural Affairs, have received €3 million in funding for third-party venues and have been invited to support the largest number of structures such as those you mentioned. In terms of intermittance, a real challenge, the white year has been essential, agreeably, in terms of social protection and preservation of artistic and technical capabilities. A consultation was launched with professional organizations following the presentation of André Gauron's report on the follow-up to this mechanism. You also mentioned the taxation of digital giants. Cultural taxation has been adapted for several years to better involve digital players in the financing of creation, notably through the film, audiovisual and multimedia support fund. Thus, the tax on the distribution of audiovisual content in physical and online video to finance this fund has been recast by the abolition of the differentiated taxation between historical linear broadcasters and new actors, in particular the video-on-demand platforms that have been growing for several years now. Finally, the draft decree implementing the order transposing the directive on the provision of audiovisual media services sets a high level of ambition for the financing of film and audiovisual production by the platforms, since they will have to devote 20% or 25% of their turnover in France and thus, as you wish, support French cultural creation. This is also the commitment of Roselyne Bachelot, Minister of Culture.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u53	The floor is open to Mr. Régis Juanico, to put his question, No. 1455, concerning the strength of the national police in Saint-Étienne.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u54	Madam Deputy Minister for Citizenship, as part of his visit to Montpellier on 19 April, the President of the Republic announced the creation of a number of national police posts by the end of the quinquennium. For the Loire department, five police posts will be created this year for the Gier public security district (CSP), in addition to the fifteen posts obtained for the public security district of Ondaine, as part of the creation of the republican reconquest district of La Ricamarie, which will be assigned to this sector in the near future. I would like to ask you about the evolution of the national police force in the electoral district of Saint-Étienne. In recent months, crime and vandalism, degradation and vehicle fires have increased in the northern districts of Saint-Étienne, that is to say, in Côte-Chaude, Carnot, Terrenoire, Montreynaud and the Sun, in addition to daily drug trafficking. The Stéphanois rightly denounce a real deterioration in their living environment in these popular neighbourhoods, as well as a violation of their tranquillity and security of property and people. It is a real feeling of discouragement and abandonment that is invading associative and economic actors as well as the inhabitants of these neighbourhoods. To date, the only response of the mayor of Saint-Étienne is to relieve himself of all responsibility and power to act, preferring to refer the state to its shortcomings, particularly in terms of the strength of the national police. This local elected official, also holding the office of chairman of the urban France security commission, regularly denounces the fact that the state would not have kept its word on a commitment made by your predecessors: to create 120 additional posts in Saint-Étienne in 2016. Ninety of them would still be missing, when the police unions consider that there are between forty and sixty police officers missing for the whole of the Loire department. The prefect replied that the electoral district of Saint-Étienne now has sufficient staff in terms of the activity of the services and the level of crime found. So, Madam Deputy Minister, who's telling the truth? I have four specific questions for you. Can you commit yourself to the exceptional strengthening of the human resources of the national police in Saint-Etienne in view of the very tense situation in the neighbourhoods I mentioned? With regard to the working conditions of the police, can you confirm the start of the construction of the new police office rue de l'Alma, in the heart of the Jacquard district, as part of the recovery plan? When will the work of the new gendarmerie barracks in the Sun district begin? Finally, are you prepared, on behalf of the Ministry of the Interior, to support the project to create a road safety education track of the National Police in Montreynaud, a priority district under the city's policy, as was envisaged a few years ago?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u55	The Deputy Minister for Citizenship has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u56	As you pointed out, the expectations of the French are strong in terms of security. And you know that the mobilization of the Government and the State services is ongoing, in particular in order to fulfil the commitment of the President of the Republic to create 10,000 police and gendarmerie posts during the quinquennium. We want to strengthen and modernise the resources of the police, in particular thanks to the increased appropriations that have been voted, i.e. 1.7 billion since 2017 and 621 million from the France Recovery plan. It is thanks to these measures that every Frenchman will be able to see more law enforcement forces on the ground in 2022 than in 2017. I know that local elected officials are very attached to the reassuring presence of law enforcement officials on the public highway and I know the very strong expectations of the mayor of Saint-Étienne and yours in this regard. I will try to answer very precisely your very specific questions, honourable Member, and if you do not find all the required elements there, I and Gérald Darmanin will be at your disposal to complete my answer. First of all, I would like to point out that between January 1, 2017 and March 31, 2021, the number of peacekeepers assigned to the Saint-Étienne PSC increased from 381 to 411. Saint-Étienne's CSP will continue to be strengthened by the end of the quinquennium, putting this city in a favourable position, adapted to the level of police activity. I recall that Saint-Étienne benefits from a republican reconquest district that has had a dedicated reinforcement and that the staff of fifteen policemen is in this capacity Sanctuary. In the Côte-Chaude sector, the action taken has helped to reduce crime in the first four months of the year – although I know of course that insecurity remains real and that it feeds on the nuisances of everyday life. In the Terrenoire sector, crime is increasing, which has a real impact on staff and public transport users, you know better than anyone. A police presence is now provided every afternoon and regular checks are carried out until the beginning of the evening, in particular to ensure that curfews are respected. In the district of the Sun, indicators of delinquency also show a deterioration of the situation since the beginning of the year. As a result of the increased number of staff in the first four months, multiple arrests were carried out, i.e. 40 in the first four months of the year. In the Montreynaud district, delinquency, particularly linked to drug trafficking, also calls for a strong mobilization of our forces: several drug deals have been dismantled and thirty-six arrests carried out during the same period. In addition, in the Loire department, the district of public security benefits from the mutualised staff of the judicial police and the border police. The mobilization of the police is effective, Mr. Member of Parliament. The State devotes the necessary resources and will continue to support new projects with new means, but it must also be able to count on the mobilization of the communities concerned, because it is together, in a complementary and highly coordinated manner, that we will succeed in reducing crime.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u57	Mrs Chantal Jourdan has the floor to raise her question, No. 1456, concerning the police station in Alençon.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u58	In the preamble, I wish to pay tribute to the memory of the two policemen who have died in Rambouillet and Avignon in recent weeks as part of their mission. Madam Minister for Citizenship, I would like to draw your attention to the situation of the police station in Alençon, which has been understaffed for many years. This state of affairs could again be seen in events that occurred a few weeks ago in the neighbourhood of Perseigne, a political quarter of the city. While the sector was already in the throes of drug trafficking, urban rodeos and vehicle fires, law enforcement forces were the target of mortar fire, marking an additional step in the escalation of violence. The violence in this area is not new and a police presence is essential to ensure security and public order, and to reassure people who are in a state of anxiety and discontent. During this term of office, Mr. Joaquim Pueyo, today mayor of Alençon, had already mentioned these problems, while he was a Member of Parliament for Orne, with your predecessors in the Ministry of the Interior and asked that the Alençon police station finally have additional staff. On that occasion, the tensions caused by the judicial extraction missions and by all the tasks related to the work of the prison in Condé-sur-Sarthe, for which the Alençon police officers are required to intervene, were mentioned. Since its creation, the number of prisoners in this central house has doubled and it has welcomed new prisoners, particularly under surveillance, including more than 30 radicalised people. Given these elements and the recent statements of the President of the Republic, and so that the situation does not deteriorate even further, can you tell us how many additional posts will be assigned to the Alençon police station to provide the human resources necessary for public tranquillity and the fight against delinquency and insecurity?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u59	The Deputy Minister for Citizenship has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u60	The fight against crime is a priority of the Government and since 2017, it has taken major measures, which I recalled in response to Mr. Juanico, namely the recruitment of 10,000 police officers and gendarmes by 2022, accompanied by an upgrade of equipment and increasing resources. This mobilization is also at the rendezvous, in Orne, where police officers are particularly involved in the fight against drugs. In the first quarter, for example, almost six kilos of drugs were seized by the public security services alone in this department. In Alençon, a sharp increase in usage-resale and trafficking offences has been noted by police officers thanks in particular to their unabated surveillance of drug points in the cities and identity checks. With regard to urban violence and disorder of all kinds that poison the lives of the inhabitants of the Perseigne district, be assured that we do not let anything go: the police regularly intervene, with the reinforcement of other police stations, sometimes even of CRS and gendarmerie units, which led in March and April to several arrests of offenders in this district, immediately followed by their referral to the judicial authority. In the Alençon PSC, the numbers have been stable since the beginning of the quinquennium with fifty-six peacekeepers. The Ministry of the Interior initially favoured territories that had experienced past downsizing or which had a particularly difficult crime situation, but Alençon could be strengthened by the end of the quinquennium. The city also benefits from the mutualization of the judicial police and the border police for Orne. Missions are carried out for the benefit of the judicial authority, in this case the prison administration in Alençon. These charges are increasing sharply in the first quarter and obviously affect the operational potential of the services, particularly for the care of inpatients. Progress has been made in recent years with the chancery in order to ensure a fairer and more rational distribution of those burdens, but I think we need to go further. This is why undue tasks are one of the subjects of the Beauvau de la sécurité organized by the Minister of the Interior. You see, Member of Parliament, we are taking the problem of gang crime. As far as Alençon is concerned, I can assure you that you can count on the unwavering mobilization of the police officers on the ground that I want to greet here by obviously associating myself with the tribute you paid them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u61	Mrs Graziella Melchior has the floor to raise her question, No. 1436, on combating child violence.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u62	Madam Secretary of State for Youth and Commitment, the new pact for children, launched in 2019 by Secretary of State Adrien Taquet, made it clear that there was a need to better identify abused children in order to better protect them. To this end, platform 119, the national telephone service for children at risk, is useful. During confinement, telephone calls increased by 80% in some weeks. But child abuse is still difficult to detect, and that is why all channels must be mobilized to identify children who are subjected to violence. The young association Les Papillons has found an effective way to break the law of silence, thanks to a simple but innovative device: the installation, at the height of children, of small mailboxes within the schools. At the same time, volunteers work with students to explain what abuse is and to emphasize the importance of talking about it. Since January 2021, more than 230 words have been recorded in 71 mailboxes and about 20 children have been reported. In 84% of cases, the situation described by the child was managed directly by the head of the institution. Despite the valuable work of its volunteers in freeing children's voices and raising awareness about abuse, the association faces difficulties in setting up mailboxes in some schools because of the opposition of the academies concerned. Experience has shown that children are reassured to be able to rely on a neutral system. This does not in any way call into question the formidable work of educational and social personnel. In addition, when cases of violence are discovered, the association systematically turns to the departmental unit for the collection, treatment and evaluation of information of concern (CRAP); It works well in consultation with professionals. Facilitating its work and that of its volunteers is essential to stem the scourge of abuse, which, let us recall, kills nearly 80 children each year. [[Mrs BlandineBrocard,DanielleBrulebois,NicoleDubré-Chirat,PerrineGouletandFlorenceProvendierapplaudent]] Madam Secretary of State, in order to break the isolation of children at risk, are you ready to support Les Butterflies and to ask all academies and their inspections to authorize the deployment of its mailbox system throughout the country?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u63	The Secretary of State for Youth and Engagement has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u64	Madam Member, I know how committed you are to violence against children. This important – and even a priority – issue is a real challenge for the dignity of our country. The liberation of speech is the first step necessary to quantify and realize the seriousness of this scourge in our society. The Minister of National Education, Youth and Sports has asked me to inform you of the following. The fight against violence against children is carried out by national education with many actors – such as the judiciary, the department and associations, including Les Papillons. Child protection is not only a legal requirement, it is obviously a moral requirement. Depending on the territory, between a quarter and a third of the worrying information and reports transmitted each year are carried out by the departments of the Ministry of National Education, Youth and Sports. These results are obviously the result of the mobilization of social services for pupils, but also of the entire educational community, which, as you know, is particularly attentive and wishes to accompany children who are victims of violence. But we need to do more. You are right: you have to deploy more channels of communication and means of contact, without weighing on efforts and without denying yourself the opportunities offered by the community world in close proximity to children. This is also the meaning of the instructions given to improve the identification, orientation and care of students in situations of stress, psychological distress or danger. This very clear line was communicated by Jean-Michel Blanquer to his services. The idea of installing mailboxes in schools to provide a new channel for the release of speech is a very good initiative. However, it is necessary to recall that child protection is a matter that obliges everyone, and that interventions in this field must comply with rules that ensure, inter alia, the physical and moral integrity of the pupils who are entrusted to national education. The association Les Papillons does not propose to create a new channel for the release of speech, but a reporting circuit parallel to that of national education that prevents the care of child victims by social and health professionals, as some incidents may have revealed. [[MrsGraziellaMelchior,BlandineBrocardetPerrineGouletprotest]] [[Mrs BlandineBrocardetFlorenceProvenders]] A work – which is only in its early stages – has been undertaken with the president of the association to make the latter's action compatible with the particularities of the school environment. The services of Jean-Michel Blanquer proposed a first convention that could not succeed. It is therefore absolutely necessary to continue the dialogue constructively. I suggest, of course, that you work with the extra-curricular and extra-curricular world that we know well and that also welcomes children, in addition to the work carried out by the teams of the Ministry of National Education to continue to gather the words of the children.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u65	National education must open up!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u66	Mrs Graziella Melchior has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u67	I would like briefly to thank the Secretary of State for her answer, although it is not completely satisfactory. I hope that we will be involved in the ensuing exchanges.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u68	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u69	National education is blocked!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u70	Mr Philippe Meyer has the floor to put his question, No. 1445, concerning a league of Alsace tennis.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u71	Madam Secretary of State for Youth and Engagement, I would like to draw your attention to the difficulties faced by Alsatian tennis bodies in their plans, endorsed by the national federation last year, to create a new league of Alsace tennis. Indeed, following the change of leadership within the French Tennis Federation, it would appear that the latter, as well as the Ligue Grand Est Tennis, is seeking to carry out a retro-pedaling to put this project in check. While more than 90% of the tennis clubs in Alsace have approved the project to create a new league of Alsace tennis, it would be unacceptable that it could be abandoned. These changes are particularly shocking because they contravene the Matignon agreements signed on 29 October 2018 under the auspices of Prime Minister Edouard Philippe and translated into article 5 of the law of 2 August 2019 on the competences of the European Community of Alsace, which opens the possibility for sports federations to organize themselves at the scale of Alsace. It is therefore not in any case for a sports federation to place itself above the law by providing for its own statutory provisions. The services of the Ministry of Sports had estimated in 2020 that the decree mentioned in article 5 of the Alsace law was not justified because the provisions of ordinary law, contained in the sports code, seemed sufficient to them. According to the sport code, the creation of a new league is the decision of the federation's sovereign organization, provided that the ministry does not object to it. Each federation can thus modify its internal organisation, on the basis of a decision of its general assembly. This interpretation of the service of the Ministry of Sports appears today, in the light of the reactions of the French Tennis Federation, as insufficient to respect the will of the legislator when it adopted the Alsace law. What does the Government intend to do to make it clear to sports federations that the Alsace law and its Article 5 must be respected?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u72	The Secretary of State for Youth and Engagement has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u73	Following a broad democratic consultation and under the leadership of Prime Minister Édouard Philippe, the law of 2 August 2019 created the European Community of Alsace, which has been bringing together the departments of Bas-Rhin and Haut-Rhin since 1 January 2021. This law, which gives very specific powers to the territorial authority concerned, does not, however, alter the administrative districts of the State in both departments. For example, prefectural and national education services remain at the departmental level. With regard to sport – and I would like to apologize for the absence of the delegate minister, Mrs Roxana Maracananu, who asked me to send you her answer – Article 5 of the law of 2 August 2019 provides that "under the conditions laid down by decree in the Council of State, professional orders and accredited cultural and sports federations may create sub-regional bodies at the level of the European Community of Alsace". These bodies must therefore find a place in the territorial organization of the Greater East region. However, the Sports Code already provides for the possibility for approved sports federations to apply to the Ministry responsible for sports for a derogation so that the territorial jurisdiction of the regional leagues or departmental committees differs from that of the deconcentrated departments of the Ministry. This is an exception regime and the Sports Code specifies that this derogation is possible subject to justification and in the absence of any objection on the grounds of the Ministry of Sport. In the light of this regime already provided for in the sports code, the executive committee of the Fédération française de tennis had seized, in the summer of 2020, the Ministry responsible for sports, of an application for the creation of a League of Alsace of tennis within the Grand Est region, following the merger of the two departmental committees. The federation wanted this new league to be operational on September 1, 2021. The request was under investigation when the delegate minister responsible for sports was informed on 23 February 2021 that the new committee of the French Tennis Federation, elected after the federal elections of 13 February, had finally decided to put an end to the procedure for the creation of the Alsace Tennis League. Since the Minister responsible for sports is obviously committed to the independence of sports federations in the exercise of their activities, you will understand that she asks me to clarify that it is not for the Government to intervene or comment on federal decisions. However, the Deputy Minister invited the President of the Fédération française de tennis to clarify to him which overall territorial organization would be set up in the Grand Est region, in the general interest of the various disciplines.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u74	Mr Philippe Meyer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u75	Thank you for that answer, Madam Secretary of State. My question was about the example of tennis, but know that in other sports disciplines, discussions are continuing. In consultation with the Minister responsible for sports, with whom I was able to exchange last week, we have a real will to move forward and enforce the spirit of the law of 2 August 2019.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u76	Mr Olivier Marleix, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 1449, on the means of schools in priority education areas (ZEP).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u77	Madam Secretary-General for Youth and Engagement, I would like to ask you about the priority education policy in high schools. This is an important subject. In my constituency, of the four professional high schools in Dreux, three – the high schools Gilbert Courtois, Édouard Branly and Maurice Villette – were once ranked as a priority education area. In 2014, the then government made a commitment to revise and completely transform the priority education policy, which was done for schools and colleges. However, he stopped in the middle of the ford, leaving aside the question of high schools. Since 2017, the Government has addressed the issue of primary school by mobilizing significant resources for the duplication of classes. However, the situation of high school priority education has unfortunately not changed. Very concretely, the CLAIR rankings – schools, colleges and high schools for ambition, innovation and success –, ZEP or APV – priority assignment to be valued – have disappeared, with two types of consequences for the institutions concerned. On the one hand, there is the question of the application of the new index bonus (NBI) to teachers, which is obviously a matter of concern for the attractiveness of institutions. On the other hand, there is the question of the resources allocated to the institutions: the overall hourly allocation is now the subject of annual negotiations with the rectorate, under conditions which are not transparent and which give rise to a great deal of concern every year. The specific resources allocated as a result of the ranking in priority education allowed these high schools – which concentrate the difficulties – to have a little more suitable staff, but also to put in place a number of options or to carry out stimulating projects, as I myself was able to see regularly. These institutions need particularly stimulating elements enabling openness to maintain a true educational project capable of mobilizing students as they approach the baccalaureate. I would therefore like to know the Government's intention with regard to the means of priority education policy in high schools.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u78	The Secretary of State for Youth and Engagement has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u79	Mr Marleix, I know how attached you are to the stimulation offered by professional establishments and their anchoring in the territories, especially in your own. My colleague Nathalie Élimas, Secretary State in charge of priority education, works with Jean-Michel Blanquer, the Minister of National Education, Youth and Sports, to redefining the priority education map and to accompany all schools. Historically, three vocational lycées in Eure-et-Loir, located in the city of Dreux, have been integrated into the priority education area: Maurice Villette vocational lycée, Gilbert Courtois vocational lycée and the vocational education section of Édouard Branly high school. These three schools have enrolled a thousand students since the re-foundation of the card, which was initiated in 2014. Their average social position index (SPI) is higher than the average of the public vocational high schools in the metropolis and overseas departments and regions: 86.4 compared to 83.9. On the other hand, the average number of students per division, CAP and professional baccalaureate combined, is 16.3 compared with 17.7 on average. In other words, the teaching conditions in these schools are almost the most favourable in France. As a result, with regard to the calculation of hourly allowances – the negotiation you mentioned at the beginning of your question – these three institutions do not benefit from a specific increase compared to the other professional lycées of the academy. The comparison of the years 2019, 2020 and 2021 does not show any deterioration in the resources made available to the institutions. In view of the planned staffing for 2021, they will have an additional 11 hours per week. The professional high schools of Dreux are therefore particularly supported and monitored. In 2019, while the number of students welcomed was lower than expected, schools continued to benefit from an increase in hourly allowances of 13 hours; In 2020, while they received twenty-one fewer students, the additional 14-hour allowance was maintained. These elements illustrate the Government's commitment to dynamism and curiosity, which you call for. We are committed to providing professional institutions of excellence with specific support and quality guidance, and the situation is changing in a positive way.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u80	Mr Olivier Marleix has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u81	Thank you for these points of answer. If institutions still have significant resources overall, it is the fruit of a legacy – yes, the legacy can sometimes be positive. It is for the future that we are concerned. I repeat, teachers need clarity about NBI. Today, for lack of ranking, it is difficult for them to understand the differences in regime between high schools; This maquis represents a first difficulty. And then these institutions should be the subject of a real long-term ambition, which would allow teachers to work without asking themselves, every year, whether the means will be available.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u82	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor to put his question, No. 1434, concerning the equipment of the army.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u83	My question is addressed to the Minister of Armed Forces and relates to the evolution of the operational maintenance (MCO) of the Army's equipment, which covers all technical and logistical support actions. Initiated in 2016, the reorganisation of the land-based MCO was presented as a phase of modernisation to increase productivity by increasing contracting with private operators. Their share of support would increase from 27% in 2019 to 40% in 2024, at the expense of the state's industrial maintenance services. The objective was to improve the availability and mobility of equipment to adapt to the pace of external operations and operational readiness. However, the observed consequences are not commensurate with expectations, in particular with regard to the reliability, durability and safety of the work carried out by private companies, as well as the quality of the parts supplied. The control of repaired equipment, under the responsibility of State personnel, requires recurrent re-examination. These will be all the more problematic on heavy-duty armoured vehicles, which must offer all the guarantees in order to avoid malfunctions in operation. Moreover, the announcement of the restructuring of the material support bases (BSMAT), with the prospect of a decline in jobs, rightly worries the State workers and the technical officials of the Ministry of Armed Forces. This is particularly the case in the 13th BSMAT in Clermont-Ferrand, where the role of the Arquus company is only growing. There is the introduction, on the maintenance chains of State workshops, of personnel from private companies, sometimes temporary, often without specific training, who gradually occupy jobs previously held by public officials combining technical skills, know-how and knowledge of equipment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u84	The Secretary of State for Youth and Engagement has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u85	The Minister of the Armed Forces, who cannot be present today and asks you to excuse her, has asked me to convey her answer to you. This is particularly technical; So let me read it. The technical specialists of the Ministry of Armed Forces, staff of the Directorate-General for Armaments and of the integrated structure of the maintenance in operational condition of land-based equipment, are and remain indispensable in the development of combat equipment and in their support. These equipments offer very high performance, indispensable to the superiority of our forces. They are the result of a long development and are ordered only in limited series, with a sometimes very long lifespan. This is why the Ministry of the Armed Forces maintains industrial skills within it to ensure the long-term support of these materials. As you pointed out, honourable Member, the plan to transform the maintenance of terrestrial equipment into an operational condition has resulted in an increased use of the capabilities of private industry, in addition to state resources. Yes, the Government aims to repair 40 per cent of private industrial maintenance for 60 per cent of state industrial maintenance in 2025, while the ratio was 27 per cent for 73 per cent in 2017. But, with the exception of a few vehicles in the civil range, the control of works remains entirely state-owned. It is a matter of making better use of our own skills to allow for a better regeneration of the materials. And the results are there: thanks to these choices, the technical capital stock has been reduced by almost half since 2016. In addition, one of the general principles of this plan remains to ensure a State capacity for action for operating equipment, in particular those engaged in operations. The health crisis has shown that our model makes it possible to get the most out of the combination of the strength of the industry and the resilience of the maintenance of our support bases. The Ministry of Armed Forces is very committed to maintaining key ground maintenance skills for both civilian and deployed military personnel. In 2016, therefore, a list of occupations that would be recruited was defined. Since 2017, the ministry has recruited more than 1,700 state workers to maintain the core pool of skills. The equipment support bases provide essential missions in state industrial maintenance and occupy a central place in the land-based operational maintenance model. Therefore, there is no question of restructuring Clermont-Ferrand's 13th BSMAT.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u86	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u87	Thank you for the accuracy of the answer. Nevertheless – this question is still pending – in state workshops, technicians from the ministry and state workers are gradually being replaced by private personnel. Today, maintenance chains see temporary workers arriving, employees who do not necessarily have adequate training. Again, I quote the case of the 13th BSMAT in Clermont-Ferrand, where the private company Arquus moved into public workshops on public maintenance chains. In the end, the price may be lower; repair may be cheaper; the work may be carried out quickly; But the checks carried out by the State workers and the technical officials of the Ministry of the Armed Forces show that there are a lot of malfeasances. While private companies are being fattened, state workers have to go back, with the sweeper and the small shovel, to do the repairs and try to upgrade the equipment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u88	Mr Philippe Huppé has the floor to put his question, No. 1427, concerning the assistance of the best workers in France.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u89	Madam Minister responsible for industry, the excellence of French trades and its recognition are an asset for France, both internationally and in Hexagon. This excellence and the confidence that accompanies it are the product of a hard-earned know-how for many years. Here we have an illustration of the whole French idea that the most capable and the most hardworking can be recognized, notably through the title of best worker in France (MOF). However, I understand that the Committee for the Organisation of Labour and Competition Exhibitions (COET-MOF) would launch a reform that would profoundly change the nature of the latter. I will mention only three aspects, which show the philosophy. To begin with, the word "competition" would be replaced by the word "exam". It would seem to me to be a serious mistake, because it is indeed a competition because it aims to recognise the best. With such a change, all French meritocracy would be called into question, and that would be regrettable. In France, even if one comes from a simple environment, one can, thanks to the patient acquisition of know-how, be recognized as the best in his field, as the elite of the world of manual trades. This possibility is fundamental; But the examination would break this French idea of meritocracy. In addition, registration fees, which now amount to some 200 euros, would increase to 6000 euros. Between 200 and 6000 euros, the difference is enormous and unacceptable: with the new amount, the participation in the contest would be conditional on being fairly wealthy, which, again, goes against the meritocracy to the French, that is to say the idea that everyone must be able to compete for the title and compete. Finally, and this particularly affects me, if it were introduced, this reform would see some crafts disappear from the competition – rare trades, small trades. However, in 1929, when the MOF competition was created, it was precisely designed for these trades; It would be sad to exclude them. Will this reform take place? Will the competition be replaced by an examination? Will we be opposed to this generous idea of the Republic, which is meritocracy?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u90	The next speaker is the Minister responsible for industry.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u91	As you know, the Government attaches great importance to the title of best worker in France, which promotes the excellence of French know-how. The Minister responsible for small and medium-sized enterprises is aware of the involvement of craft and trade professionals in this competition. The State diploma proposed by the Ministry of National Education, Youth and Sports is the result of a long and difficult preparation for each candidate; It is above all a consecration for these professionals and a real national treasure in France and abroad. In his speech on the occasion of the presentation of the galette des rois by a baker craftsman at the Palais de l'Élysée on 13 January, the President of the Republic once again affirmed his support for this keystone of a model of excellence to French. The challenge is to preserve the reputation of the diploma, without the costs of registration and preparation for the competition becoming a criterion of selection and exclusion. This is our view of equal opportunities, and you are right to stress its importance. The Associate Minister is aware of the importance of preserving and developing this competition, the organization of which can still be improved, particularly in terms of funding. A mission of the Inspectorate-General for Higher Education and Research is under way and must make proposals for the proper organisation of the twenty-seventh competition and for the sustainability, in particular financial, of the structure responsible for its organisation. The Minister Delegate would like these proposals to outline the prospect of an economic model as sustainable as it can be, while ensuring that a very high level of excellence is maintained. This objective is perfectly shared by all Bercy's ministers, the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u92	Mr Philippe Huppé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u93	Thank you for your answer. Let us not forget that in 1929, the MOFs were given the Legion of Honour. It would be a shame to give them only a small diploma, which would refer to a ploutocratic principle rather than to meritocracy!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u94	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor to put his question, No. 1435, on the metallurgy industries in Normandy.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u95	Madam Minister responsible for industry, I would like to ask you, together with my colleagues Sébastien Jumel and Jean-Paul Lecoq, about the situation of the Norman metal and energy industries. Having suffered the impact of the suspension of the investment projects of the oil and gas producing countries due to several years of low oil prices, the Vallourec group decided to close its site in Déville-lès-Rouen, specialized in the manufacture of seamless high-tech tubes, in order to bring guarantees to its creditors as part of the restructuring of its debt. A total of 190 employees would be laid off next June, the date the site was closed. The Manoir Industries Group, which specializes in the manufacture of special steel parts for petrochemicals, nuclear, weapons and rail, whose main establishment is located in Pitres, has been placed on judicial review since 25 February despite a satisfactory order book, as the Chinese shareholder, the only master on board since 2020, has not invested the sums for which he had committed himself on the occasion of the group's acquisition. The shareholder has led the Manoir Industries Group to a situation of drying up its treasury. It is here 438 jobs that are threatened. These industrial sites are strategic for our energy sovereignty. Indeed, a national production capacity of high-tech steel materials should be maintained to meet our needs. It is therefore necessary to ensure that the takeover offers currently under consideration maintain or create as many jobs as possible, preserve as much valuable know-how and sustain the industrial vocation of the sites. Already, investment funds motivated by the search for easy gains and without real industrial project are positioned on sites in search of buyers, like the Samfi-Invest fund, which covets Vallourec de Déville-lès-Rouen as well as the Chapelle d'Arblay site of the UPM company – United Paper Mills – in Grand-Couronne. Vigilance is also required for the Manoir Industries group, where the sole shareholder has submitted in extremis an offer of continuation with a contribution of EUR 15 million, even though he has never met his financial commitments. While the State must support the most credible and promising industrial projects in terms of maintaining and creating jobs, it must ensure that opportunistic offers, such as the acquisition of land at lower cost for speculative operations or the mobilization of public money, including with industrial projects, move away from the core of historical activity and whose economic viability would take only the time to pay subsidies, including massive subsidies such as those related to the production of renewable hydrogen. Therefore, Madam Minister Delegate, please reassure us of the intention of the State with regard to all of these issues of buy-back that arise on a high-Norman scale.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u96	The next speaker is the Minister responsible for industry.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u97	Your question gives me the opportunity to highlight the specialisation and exceptional know-how of the Norman industries in the oil, gas and nuclear sectors. With regard to the oil and gas sectors, as you know, we must accompany an ecological transition and that is also the issue we are working on. This know-how is an integral part of the territory's industrial history, and these industries are essential and strategic links in their value chain. This is why the Government is very vigilant in the future of the Vallourec sites in Déville-lès-Rouen and in the Hauts-de-France and the Manoir group throughout the territory, whether in Bouzonville en Moselle, La Hague and Agneaux dans la Manche or in Pitres en Seine-Maritime. Vallourec has suffered for several years a very degraded financial situation, with a debt ratio that prevented him from committing any investment. The Government, in the summer and autumn of last year, with the support of the Interministerial Committee for Industrial Restructuring (CIRI), mobilized to facilitate the group's discussions with its financial partners and committed itself to the group through a State-guaranteed loan. Thanks to this, the financial situation is sound, the group is now able to reinvest in order to win new markets, which we will accompany if necessary with the France Recovery plan. However, we do not release our vigilance, particularly on the site of Déville-lès-Rouen, for which the search for reprehensors is under way. A territorial industrial monitoring committee under the prefect's aegis met again at the end of April. The Government has also been particularly vigilant about the quality of the social dialogue – I have visited the Hauts-de-France and Normandy several times – which has led to a majority agreement with the employees. Two repossessors expressed their interest. It will be up to Vallourec, in compliance with its obligations, to position itself on the best project, but these projects are also expertised by us and we will be particularly vigilant about their industrial quality, in addition to the analysis we have to conduct on environmental standards. As far as the Manoir Group is concerned, I want to reassure you about the total mobilization of the Government, which, as early as August last, granted a loan of EUR 15 million for a search for buyers. This loan helped to avoid the liquidation of the group and its entities due to the failure of its shareholder. We have received strong offers that will enable us to take over 160 employees if they go to the end, because we have worked a lot with the buyers and the principals. We are financing seventy-five industrial projects in the Normandy region for €770 million. This applies to the whole industry.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u98	Mrs Anne Blanc has the floor to put her question, No. 1438, on the property tax in priority neighbourhoods.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u99	Madam Minister responsible for industry, I would like to ask you about the cessation of the exemption from the property tax on built properties (TFPB) in the priority neighbourhoods of city policy (QPV). This scheme, co-financed by the municipalities and the State, has made it possible to sustain commercial activity within the sectors concerned, which are particularly fragile in economic and social terms. It has also promoted the rehabilitation of the often dilapidated or neglected buildings of the QPV sectors. In the continuation of the extension of the city contract, effective until 2022, the Government had announced that the exemption from TFPB would also be extended in a consistent manner. However, it appears that this is no longer the case. However, the perimeters of the priority districts of communes such as Villefranche-de-Rouergue, in my constituency, concern the entire city centre; They have many businesses and are already severely weakened by the health crisis. This exemption is a decisive variable for the financial balance of these small businesses, and the abrupt shutdown of the scheme, further increasing their financial burdens, could be a coup de grace for many traders, while the priority in the coming months must remain our massive support for local businesses. It is just as a trigger for habitat rehabilitation. In Villefranche-de-Rouergue, as in many medium-sized cities, mayors and their municipal teams have made the revitalization of the city's cores a priority of action for this new mandate 2020-2026, most of the time accompanied by city centre action devices. While the health crisis further reinforces their structural difficulties, the lack of strong fiscal measures for small downtown and housing businesses would have serious economic and social consequences. Therefore, Madam Deputy Minister, I would like to know what you are planning to implement in order to allow the extension of the exemption of the TFPB in the QPV perimeters or, failing that, to mitigate the significant impact of this non-extension in the sectors concerned.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u100	The next speaker is the Minister responsible for industry.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u101	You draw my attention to the tax situation of the owner traders operating in the QPVs who became liable to the TFPB after benefiting from the exemption attached to this scheme. You propose to maintain the benefit of the exemption for these traders or, failing that, a mitigation measure, in particular in order to limit their burdens in the context of the current health crisis. As you know, the planning law for the city and urban cohesion of 21 February 2014 created QPVs, which constitute the geography of intervention of the city's policy. In order to promote the maintenance of the local trade and to encourage economic activity in these neighbourhoods, exemptions from territorial economic contribution (TEC) and TFPB for businesses located in these neighbourhoods were introduced from 1 January 2015. These exemptions shall be granted, subject to conditions of activity, staff and turnover, to establishments existing on 1 January 2015 or established after 1 January 2015 and until 31 December 2022. The transactions eligible for local tax exemptions in the QPVs, i.e. the creation of commercial establishments, were indeed extended until 2022 by the Finance Act for 2021. On the other hand, the duration of the TFPB exemption is set at five years, which means that taxpayers who started to benefit from the exemption scheme in 2015 reached the end of their five-year exemption period in 2019 and were therefore re-taxed for 2020. This situation is a logical consequence of the temporary nature of the provisions exempting zoned territorial planning tax systems, but the concession scheme continues to operate for the many companies entered into the scheme from 2016. With regard to the businesses that are liable for this tax, the Government has made a strong effort, particularly with regard to tax and social support, to extend the eligibility of the solidarity fund and to extend its benefit. Rather, it is through this process that these businesses must be able to cope with the situation, in relation to their tax services.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u102	Mrs Anne Blanc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u103	Thank you, Madam Deputy Minister. We were well aware of this reality of the five-year exemption period, but we are in a particular period, very complex for the economic activity of the city centres, and that is why I am asking for a specific derogation, an extension of the exemptions. We have a whole range of tools to support the revitalization of city centres, especially those of small towns, and we must be careful that this panel is very comprehensive, because the absence of a single tool could hinder the success of the development implemented by local elected officials.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u104	Mrs Danielle Brulebois has the floor to put her question, No 1442, on non-road diesel.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u105	Madam Minister responsible for industry, I would like to ask you about measures relating to taxation and the use of non-road diesel fuel (NRG), a subject which is of great concern in Jura but also in many other departments. The Government had decided in 2020 to abolish the tax advantage enjoyed by the GNR gradually and in stages, until its total abolition in January 2022. Last year, the first stage of the GNR's tax evolution had not been achieved due to the upheavals caused by the covid-19 epidemic. While the Government had agreed to postpone these measures by one year, it announced that the elimination of the GNR's tax advantage would take place at one time, as of 1 July 2021. Building, construction, public works and landscape companies have learned this news with surprise and indignation. For months, they have been sounding the alarm: the smallest of them risk putting the key under the door because they will not be able to bear the increase in the cost of the GNR in addition to all the hazards already experienced since the beginning of the crisis and today as a result of the rising prices of raw materials. In addition to the issue of GNR taxation, the arrangements for its implementation are also discussed. In the Jura, artisans came to lay tons of rubble in front of my permanence to denounce the fact that they will be obliged to use white diesel oil as early as July 1, while others will have the right to use rosé fuel. They explained to me their concerns, which also relate to the safety of construction sites and equipment, with the fear of the theft of white diesel, but also to the problems that the specific colouring of the BTP would pose. Madam Deputy Minister, what answers do you intend to give to this sector of the major economy for our rural territories in order to support their activities today weakened?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u106	The next speaker is the Minister responsible for industry.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u107	As you know, at the request of the professionals of the BTP we have changed the path of progressive increase of the domestic consumption tax rate on energy products (TICPE) on the GNR in the third amending finance law for 2020. At this stage, it is therefore expected that the GNR tariff excluding agricultural use will increase from €18.82 per litre to €59.40 on 1 July 2021. Discussions with the National Chamber of Artisans of Public Works and Landscape, the CNATP, have been ongoing for more than a year and a half. A consensus was reached on the impossibility of fulfilling the undertaking concerning the specific colouring of the GNR used in public works and on the relatively incidental nature of such colouring if the benefit of the GNR super-reduced tariff applies to agricultural and forestry work, regardless of the professional sector. The Minister of Economy, Finance and Recovery is fully aware of the economic difficulties experienced by professionals for more than a year. Its mobilization has been complete since last March. Construction companies received EUR 955 million from the Solidarity Fund, 99% of which was for small businesses. Without being the hardest hit by the current economic crisis, their difficulties have recently worsened as a result of tensions in commodity prices. We are therefore studying with the ministers concerned all the possibilities to respond to these difficulties as we approach the deadline of 1 July. Bruno Le Maire is committed to bringing concrete solutions quickly to the representatives of the sector and to the elected representatives who are asking us on this issue. If there is no question of abandoning the reform – as you know, we are firmly committed to an ecological transition approach – all options are on the table given the current economic context, including that of a new postponement. Where appropriate, all the consequences of the work carried out for more than a year should be drawn, in particular on the impossibility of proposing a specific colouring of the GNR to public works actors.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u108	Mrs Danielle Brulebois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u109	Thank you for that answer, Madam Deputy Minister, but also for paying particular attention to the fate of small businesses. Unlike large companies, which will have the opportunity tomorrow to upgrade their tariffs in the context of public procurement, small companies will not be able to pass on the rise in commodity prices to their customers for already signed quotes. Moreover, while it is necessary to ensure the ecological transition, professionals must have sufficient time to adapt because they do not yet have convincing alternatives. In particular, they deplore the fact that green machinery is not yet available in the catalogues of major international manufacturers.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u110	Mr Patrick Hetzel has the floor to put his question, No. 1447, on building materials.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u111	Madam Minister responsible for industry, I would like to ask you about a subject that has taken on particular importance in recent times: the shortage and the upsurge in prices that currently affect the building and public works sector, but not only. Since the beginning of the health crisis, construction and public works professionals have alerted the Government to the difficulties of supply in general and to the difficulties of supply of wood in particular. In Alsace, this phenomenon has become very problematic. Companies face real shortages of wood construction materials, while this sector has developed strongly in recent years. When they end up finding a source of supply, which is becoming more and more difficult, prices are generally doubled in relation to pre-pandemic wood prices. The professionals concerned, who have already faced a very difficult year 2020, fear that they will not be able to work because of this shortage, or at a loss, in the case of public procurement contracts contracted in 2020. Be aware of the untenable situation of these companies: they must honour their contracts, which is quite normal, while the price of their supplies has doubled... In this context, it is essential that the State organize a dialogue between suppliers of raw materials and construction and public works professionals. More than ever before, strong measures must be taken to ensure that French resources, particularly wood resources, can contribute to the recovery of French companies. In Alsace, the wood industry is becoming increasingly fragile. So, Madam Deputy Minister, what do you intend to do to help construction and public works companies working in this sector cope with the difficulties I have just described?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u112	The next speaker is the Minister responsible for industry.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u113	The recovery of industrial activity, particularly in Asia, in a context of uncertainty for many raw material producers, has led to significant supply pressures, mainly for metals and plastic resins. These tensions are currently causing additional delivery times and significant increases in raw material prices, particularly for wood. They were mentioned at the strategic committee of the wood industry that I met with Emmanuelle Wargon, Minister of Housing, and Julien Denormandie, Minister of Agriculture and Food, on April 14. The health crisis has shown that we depend on abroad for indispensable raw materials and confirms the need to continue the work to strengthen and develop the French industrial sectors, especially when we have theoretical comparative advantages. This is particularly the case with the wood industry, for which we must preserve the independence of our supply: in fact, almost 65% of the timber consumed comes from the French forests. The Government is therefore working with the timber industry to build a strategy. The sector fully benefits from the recovery plan, which has spent €35 billion on industry. I am thinking of the reduction of production taxes, the decarbonisation strategy of the industry, the measures for thermal renovation of buildings and the financing for the improvement, diversification and renewal of forest stands in order to encourage their adaptation to climate change. We also support, through the environmental regulation of new buildings, RE2020, the use of wood in future constructions, which will speed up the structure of the sector and strengthen its competitiveness. In addition, we make two calls for expressions of interest to the interdepartmental plan, which aim to help the industry meet the challenges of environmental regulation of new buildings and to find reference solutions and mixed products for construction. The files of the first call for expressions of interest "Mixedness for Low Carbon Construction" are being investigated. The second call for expressions of interest, "Development of innovative wood products and constructive wood systems", was announced on the occasion of the last strategic wood sector committee that I brought together. I would like to take advantage of your question, Mr Hetzel, to welcome the report by Mrs Anne-Laure Cattelot on the forest and the wood industry. Be assured that the Government and the majority are mobilized to structure this sector and to enable it to be resilient and to ensure a sustainable supply to the construction and public works sector, including Bruno Le Maire and Alain Griset, deputy minister in charge of small and medium-sized enterprises, again met the actors on 4 May to seek with them solutions to the difficulties that you have mentioned.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u114	Mr Patrick Hetzel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u115	I hear your answer, Madam Deputy Minister: there are, of course, consultations in progress, but the problems that the professionals are facing today require urgent answers. You are referring to structural measures, of which I take note, but you do not provide any immediate solution to the BTP companies specializing in the wood industry when they risk putting the key under the door. There is a huge gap between your response, in which you decline strategic directions in the medium term, and the situation of these companies, which are waiting for immediate measures to ensure their survival. I regret to have to repeat this, Madam Deputy Minister, but what do you intend to do immediately to help them cope? They face serious cash flow problems, which require immediate responses.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u116	The floor is open to Mr. Jacques Cattin to put his question, No. 1450, on building materials.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u117	My question is addressed to the Minister of Economy, Finance and Recovery and concerns the construction and public works sector – I note that it was at the heart of the previous issues and concerns many of us. This sector is facing a substantial increase in the prices of construction materials, combined with major supply disruptions. Professionals in the sector have estimated this increase to several dozen percent in three months for all the raw materials they use. This development, of a completely new scale, causes the already mentioned strong tensions in the construction and public works sector, which are caught between the inflation of costs, which had not been anticipated in previous markets, and delays in the construction of construction sites, which are often subject to penalties. In fact, the current price spike is not comparable to the annual price hikes in the building. According to experts in these sectors, these inflationary movements could prove to be sustainable. This trend weakens the whole sector and is a real brake on recovery. In order to deal with this unprecedented situation, it is important for the Government to act quickly on all available levers in order to preserve the viability of construction and public works enterprises while protecting the interests of the contractors. The Minister of Economy, Finance and Recovery met with the President of the French Building Federation last week, who is waiting for answers. Can you, Madam Minister Delegate, explain to us the concrete steps you are planning to take quickly to frame this unprecedented economic development and to ensure that all the players are visible in the contracts under way?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u118	The next speaker is the Minister responsible for industry.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u119	As I pointed out a few moments ago, strong market tensions due to the recovery of industrial activity in the world lead to price increases and difficulties in the supply of raw materials. I have asked my services to follow up closely on these situations in close connection with France Industrie. I would also like us to exercise particular vigilance over the balanced relationship between customers and suppliers in the context of contracts already concluded in order to avoid the abusive use of force majeure clauses. We have also undertaken a number of short-term actions that will benefit the construction sector. A crisis organization has also been set up to monitor the subject as closely as possible to the industrial sectors. It relies on correspondents within each of the sectors concerned and on a focal point within the Directorate-General for Enterprise of the Ministry of Economy, Finance and Recovery. Depending on the problems that will be identified, actions will be taken to smooth the flow of goods that are experiencing shortages – speeding up customs clearance, diplomatic action, etc. Finally, the collective mobilization of the sector is encouraged so that the major suppliers play the game and avoid the creation of precautionary stocks. We must prevent the phenomena of shortage that are themselves being maintained by overstocking. Benevolent messages were issued to public purchasers asking them to be flexible in the application of contractual late payment penalties when it is related to supply tension problems and to take into account the increase in contract costs resulting from exogenous factors. I also know that I can count on the vigilance of my colleagues Bruno Le Maire, Alain Griset and Emmanuelle Wargon to follow the particular situation of companies in the construction sector. As I have already mentioned, a meeting with professionals was held on May 4 in the presence of Bruno Le Maire and Alain Griset. These tensions also confirm the relevance of the action taken by the Government since the beginning of the quinquennium, and amplified in the framework of the France Recovery plan, to rebuild supply value chains in France and support projects that contribute to our strategic autonomy in key sectors. I am thinking in particular of the call for "Resilience" projects of the recovery plan, which to date finances more than 300 relocation projects in our territory, which represent more than 2 billion euros of industrial investment and receive 500 million euros of state aid. We are strengthening our economic sovereignty in five key areas that are currently facing a critical situation: health, agri-food, electronics, essential industrial inputs and 5G.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u120	Mr. Jacques Cattin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u121	The objective is clear: to revive our economy, we must reindustrialize it. When industrial sites are bought by foreign companies, then closed, the misunderstanding is total. The process that is taking place today should have taken place a long time ago. It is no longer a time for reflection, but for action: concrete measures are needed. Following the intervention of my colleague Patrick Hetzel, I will take the example of a company in my constituency that is building wooden houses. Today it must honor the order of 350 houses, but does not have the necessary wood... I could take many other examples to illustrate this situation. Smelters and companies need to find alternative sources of supply to supply steel. The incomprehension, I repeat, is total. Strong and urgent measures are essential, Madam Minister Delegate!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u122	Mr Jean-Luc Lagleize has the floor to put his question, No. 1429, on the French space strategy.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u123	My question is to Mrs Florence Parly, Minister of Armed Forces, and concerns the acceleration of our space defence strategy in the wake of the economic crisis following the pandemic. Since 2017, the Minister has been able to adapt the Government's ministry to the challenges facing France at the beginning of the 21st century. Among these challenges that affect our armed forces is the militarization of outer space. If space makes us dream – especially at this moment, thanks to the Alpha mission in which our compatriot Thomas Pesquet is taking part with brilliance – it has also become an increasingly militarized place of confrontation, thus a real issue of strategic sovereignty for our country. The creation of the space command, which has just emerged in Toulouse – it will employ 500 people within four years – and the transformation of the air force into an air and space army shows that the French space defence strategy is gradually rising in power. Our European and international partners also recognize our ambition and capabilities, since NATO, the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation, has also chosen Toulouse to host a centre of excellence dedicated exclusively to space. Such a choice is logical since Toulouse has a unique space ecosystem in Europe and an extraordinary expertise, both private and public, civil and military, but also industrial and academic, thanks to the Centre national d'études spatiales (CNES), Spacelab, industrialists, start-ups, universities and research centres at its disposal. The selection of Toulouse by NATO thus allows our region to preserve its aerospace vocation in a context of great fragility, since the health crisis of the covid-19 has brought a blow to the air sector and consequently to the aviation industry of Toulouse, Occitanie and France as a whole. Our industrial florets are struggling, and in the coming months they will accelerate the dismissal of many employees who yet have advanced technological skills, developed over the years. We cannot abandon these employees and their invaluable expertise. Many of them rely on you to launch a major recruitment plan that would allow them to reconvert themselves to the service of the Ministry of Armed Forces, as pilots, engineers or specialists in cybersecurity and digital sovereignty, but also and especially as aerospace experts. I am sure that these skills would be particularly useful in strengthening our surveillance capabilities, in protecting our satellites and in equipping France with real self-defence and autonomy in space. Madam Minister Delegate, in the context of the health crisis that we are experiencing, my question is simple: do you intend to speed up the French space defence strategy by relying on the skills of employees in the aerospace sector, today at a standstill?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u124	The next speaker is the Minister responsible for industry.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u125	First of all, I would like to apologize for the absence of Florence Parly, but also Bruno Le Maire, since their respective ministries share space and defence expertise. Your intervention rightly raises the question of the military use of space, and it is clear that French and European space policy can no longer ignore this dimension. On 13 July 2019, the President of the Republic announced the launch of the space defence strategy. It must put France at the forefront of new space defence technologies, particularly in the field of satellite systems, and enable it to maintain its position as a historical leader in Europe, as well as that of Europe in the world. While satellite observation and communication capabilities have been in use for years, new uses of space are emerging and France must anticipate their control. This is a matter of sovereignty, technology and employment and skills. Toulouse's aviation and space ecosystem, a world leader in this field, plays an essential role and the Government's priority since the beginning of the crisis has been to preserve its know-how and skills. First of all, the system of long-term partial activity allows jobs to be maintained in the time of the crisis, while the aviation sector is particularly affected. Many agreements have been signed among major contractors, such as Safran, but also within the chain of subcontractors, such as Daher. Secondly, the plans to boost the space sector and the aviation sector, amounting to EUR 500 million and EUR 15 billion respectively, are aimed precisely at supporting investments, maintaining skills and preparing for the future by providing massive research and development efforts. The engineering and research and development (R&amp;D) teams, which could be deprived of research projects in the particular moment we go through, see their skills used. 270 aeronautics projects have already been financed by €200 million of public aid, thanks to the support of the modernisation fund for the aeronautics sector, and we will announce in the coming days an important new wave of winners. We do not let go of the efforts made to ensure that the sector emerges from the modernised and more innovative crisis and that it will in the future be able to respond to the challenges it faces, both in space and in aeronautics – in particular connected air transport and the decarbonisation of the modes of transport concerned. More specifically, you are asking for the recruitment of aeronautics and space expertise in the service of the armed forces. This request was submitted to the Minister of Armed Forces; Given recent space-related decisions, including the installation of a space command, I am confident that it will receive its full attention.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u126	Mrs Laurence Trastour-Isnart has the floor to put her question, No 1448, on the minimum rate of social housing.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u127	My question is to the Minister responsible for housing. Since the Act on Solidarity and Urban Renewal, known as the SRU Act, was amended in 2013 by the Duflot 1 Act, municipalities have encountered difficulties in implementing its article 55, which requires those with more than 3500 inhabitants to reach the 25 per cent rate of social housing by 2025. In 2019, by decree, 232 municipalities were exempted from this catch-up obligation in the name of their specificities. This is an indisputable sign of the difficulty of achieving such a rate. As early as 2017, I worked in consultation with the mayors and elected representatives of my constituency on the subject, and the finding is unanimous: the SRU law does not take sufficient account of local situations. The territorial situation of some municipalities must be taken into account, which often prevents them from achieving the 25% target; Moreover, it is not always in line with real demand. On the other hand, the fines imposed on municipalities delay many structuring projects and thus penalize citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u128	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u129	You are currently thinking about extending the deadline to 2031: this is a necessary but still insufficient response. A discretion should be given to the prefect in order to allow him to adapt the rate imposed to local situations, whereas he can currently only sanction or judge the timeliness of the penalty provided for. Having promoted the mayor-prefect couple, here you have the opportunity to strengthen and institutionalize it. Consideration of the bill 4D – differentiation, decentralization, deconcentration and decomplexation – proposed by the Government, is approaching; on this occasion we could imagine a new method of calculation based on a fixed base and a rate that can be adjusted according to real needs. Do you intend to take into account the difficulties of implementing the SRU law by removing this single percentage, imposed at the national level and which has little meaning, and by giving the prefect a power of territorial adaptation in consultation with the local elected representatives, so that the effort required of the communes corresponds to the reality of the needs of the field?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u130	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u131	The next speaker is the Minister for Transport.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u132	You are questioning the minister responsible for housing who, unable to be present, asked me to answer you. The SRU Act is twenty years old; Let me begin by commending the longevity and relevance of this public policy. The results of the application of its emblematic Article 55 are in fact largely positive: almost half of the social housing built in the last twenty years, or about 900000 housing units out of 1.8 million, have been built in deficit communes and have been subject to the requirement of catching up. Access to affordable housing is a topical subject more than ever: almost 70% of French citizens are eligible for social housing and 2 million of them are waiting for an allocation, most often in large agglomerations, while more than 1000 municipalities still do not meet the target set by the SRU law – almost half of them are very far from it, at more than 10% of the legal rate. The Government is therefore fully committed to the firm implementation of the SRU Act, so that affordable housing can be offered to our citizens, especially in municipalities where such an offer is lacking. However, as we approach the legal deadline of 2025 – you referred to it – it is clear that the current mechanism, requiring municipalities to catch up with their entire social housing deficit in the next five years, is no longer appropriate. Aware of these difficulties, the Government is preparing to propose legislative developments within the framework of Bill 4D, which will be presented this Wednesday to the Council of Ministers. On the one hand, we will extend the application of the SRU law beyond 2025, in order to maintain the requirement to develop the supply of social housing in a sustainable manner; On the other hand, in order to make catch-up targets more achievable for municipalities, the pace will be adapted and can be adjusted taking into account differentiated local dynamics and situations. As you see, honourable Member, giving everyone access to affordable housing is a government priority, and we are taking action to sustain and adapt section 55 of the Act in question.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u133	Mrs Laurence Trastour-Isnart has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u134	Thank you, Minister Delegate, for your answer. Indeed, we must take into account the specificities of the municipalities, as well as their geographical location and their real needs – this is not the first time I have spoken about it in this House. Why require a municipality to reach 25% of social housing, which can for example represent 4000 or 5000 housing units, when its real needs are only 1000 housing units? What is originally supposed to be a virtuous circle – I share the idea that we need to build social housing, that we need it and that everyone needs to be housed – becomes a vicious circle from the moment when the slightest allocation of a building permit for private housing leads to an automatic increase in the imposed number of social housing, since it is calculated according to the single rate of 25%. A fixed base should be established, a starting point from which municipalities could enter into a contract with the State in order to have an achievable objective. Their current goal is unrealizable and it does not encourage them to act – we all know that anyone who faces an unrealizable goal is demotive and does not seek to achieve it. By determining a fixed base of 25%, 15% or even 10% according to the needs of each municipality, the basis of calculation would not be constantly changed and the target would be achievable for the municipalities. As the law stands, many municipalities are penalized and it is ultimately the citizens who suffer from it, since having to pay a fine prevents the construction of certain public facilities.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u135	Yes, and we must reason at the level of intercommunality!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u136	Mrs Blandine Brocard has the floor to put her question, No 1430, on small freight lines.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u137	My question is to the Minister responsible for transport. As you well know, rail freight lines are a crucial issue in the life of our territories. I'm going to talk to you about a line called the Brevenne, which is in the west and north of Lyon and which has existed since 1876. It allowed the transport of materials from quarries, i.e. about 100,000 tons of rubble per year. In December 2019, SNCF Réseau abruptly announced the closure of a section of rail freight; Transport will now be by truck. Ironically, the aggregates now transported by these trucks are used for the SNCF ballast. The figures speak for themselves: while a single train loaded 600 tonnes of materials from extractions, it takes ten trucks a day for four days to carry the equivalent of such a load. How can we understand such a decision? You can imagine its cost in terms of the emission of polluting gases, while everyone – you too, Minister Delegate – is engaged in the transition to cleaner transportation. These few kilometres of truck transport also generate other costs: the roads are heavily damaged, several villages are traversed daily by many heavy vehicles, which increases the noise and the risk of accidents, the roads on the outskirts of the Lyon metropolis are overengorged and the materials used for ballast are lost in quality, due to the multiplication of the loading and unloading operations – I went there and the railwaymen qualify the final product as "sugar", as it has been denatured. I would also like to draw your attention to a particular point. It is necessary to rehabilitate the few kilometres of railway concerned not only to restore freight per train, which is of obvious interest, but also to extend a passenger transport line capable of completing the grid of the Lyon metropolitan sphere. Unlocking our territories, fluidizing transport, reducing congestion on our roads, reducing the environmental impact: isn't that what we want? The community of municipalities concerned and the region are committed to rehabilitating infrastructure; He's only missing the state. You will find all the necessary details in the letters and files we sent you with Nathalie Serre and Thomas Gassilloud – the latter had already asked you a question about this in December 2019. So I have a few questions, Minister Delegate: what was the content of the discussions with the various partners involved? What options have been considered? Could you tell us how the Government plans to work to make the necessary investments so that such inconsistencies in land-use planning can be corrected? Finally, and this is the essential question, what mobility do we really want to see develop?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u138	The next speaker is the Minister for Transport.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u139	You are asking me about one of my favourite topics, and I thank you for that. A little history: since 2015, alongside the communities and shippers, the State has spent 10 million euros a year to finance investments in the regeneration of the small hair lines to which you referred. This contribution has created a real momentum for the rehabilitation of these lines: approximately 1000 kilometres have been processed since that date. This effort is indispensable, as you said: these lines are borrowed by 20% of freight trains in France and their abandonment would obviously have had disastrous consequences, in terms of modal delay, competitiveness and hence local jobs. Thanks to the recovery plan, we are tripping this effort: we are investing an additional €20 million over the period 2021-2022. This will enable us to contribute to many operations that need to be undertaken in the short term to ensure the sustainability of these lines. These 20 million are in addition to the 10 million already planned. The total therefore amounts to EUR 30 million per year. The programming of these amounts will be carried out in accordance with the rules applied so far, with a State contribution of 30% of the investments. Several lines have already been identified for programming 2021-2022 and will be discussed at local level in discussions involving the State, regions and local actors, as well as SNCF, in particular SNCF Réseau. These exchanges have already led to the development of regional strategies, particularly in the Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region. Different criteria are taken into account for this prioritization, including the expected end-of-farm deadlines, the amount of regeneration work required, the territorial and economic context of the industrialists and freight traffic on the various paths. This work will be integrated into the more global ambitions for the regeneration, the renewal itself, of rail freight, which will concentrate 1 billion euros of investment. This will be the subject of more specific announcements in the context of the strategy soon to be presented to Parliament. The stakes are that which you have exposed: to unblock our territories, to fluidize traffic on our roads and of course to accompany the great movement of decarbonation of mobility, both goods and passengers.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u140	Mrs Blandine Brocard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u141	Thank you for your answer, Minister Delegate; I hope that some of this EUR 30 million will go to Brévenne.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u142	Mrs Carole Bureau-Bonnard has the floor to put her question, No 1443, on the recycling of industrial waste.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u143	I would like to ask the Government about the French heavy industrial waste recycling industry, in particular waste from aluminium production. In a context marked by the importance of industry for national sovereignty, recognized by the Government in particular in the France Recovery Plan and the law on combating climate change and strengthening resilience to its effects, the issue of recycling and regeneration of heavy industrial waste is a major ecological issue. The case of metal waste is a clear illustration of this. Affimet, located in Compiègne, Oise, has invested in sustainable development; it produces recycled aluminium, in particular for the automotive sector; These products are in line with its technical and normative requirements. As the demand for aluminium grows, this metal can be recycled almost infinitely, recycling companies exist and are capacitive, they face difficulties in supplying raw materials. Some of the deposits collected are exported. This, for the company Affimet, is an economic obstacle and, for France, an ecological aberration. These exports of metals classified as hazardous such as mercury or inerts such as aluminum are made in disregard of the environmental common sense and carbon footprint they involve, but also to the detriment of our economic sovereignty. Let's recycle in France to make new alloys for our industries, and depolute, rather than bury toxic waste like mercury! The prioritization of waste treatment methods is now, in many cases, as in the case of aluminium, insufficiently applied to ensure the sustainability of existing recycling systems and to prevent the export of such waste to the highest bidder. What solutions was the Government considering to remedy that situation? There is an urgent need to act, both in terms of ecology and national sovereignty and of the economy, at a time when France is committed to economic growth that is more environmentally friendly.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u144	The next speaker is the Minister for Transport.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u145	The minister for the ecological transition, who cannot be present, has asked me to reply to you on this important subject of recycling of heavy industrial waste, including waste from the production of aluminium. To facilitate the recovery of our waste on the territory, the priority must be to encourage the investments of recycling companies located on national soil: it is by improving the competitiveness of French actors, promoting competition and creating economies of scale that we will be able to fight more effectively against the export of this waste. This is what the Government is doing with the recovery plan: more than 500 million euros are specifically dedicated to the development of the circular economy and the local recovery of our waste. As far as waste exports are concerned, I would like to point out that they are, in the same way as imports, regulated by European law and by the Basel International Convention, which France has ratified. The European Commission has begun work on the revision of the European Regulation on cross-border shipments of waste; The issue of the carbon footprint of materials that are recycled outside our borders can be addressed. This revision is part of the Green Pact for Europe, the aim of which is to ensure that European policy promotes waste recycling in the Union in order to accompany the transition and promote a circular economy. In this context, France will support proposals to strengthen responsible waste management, particularly if these proposals allow industries to relocate to our territory. However, the potential impacts of such proposals on the economic model and the sustainability of the metal waste collection and sorting channels should be measured.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u146	Mr Girardin, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 1440, concerning the phasing-out of packaging.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u147	I would like to draw the Government's attention to the delay in the publication of the decree implementing the progressive and concerted removal of plastic packaging, in accordance with the law on combating waste and the circular economy, known as the AGEC law, of 10 February 2020. The draft implementing decree is currently subject to public consultation, but the delay in its publication could lead to cascading delays that would complicate this transition: delay in launching R&amp;D projects for new plastic-free packaging, delay in changing production lines, delay in training employees in handling more fragile alternative packaging, delay in adapting marketing circuits. This change in packaging mode requires a major conversion of the industrial tool, hence massive investments in the production tool, which cannot be envisaged in a single operating exercise. At the very least, if we are to succeed together in this shift to cleaner packaging, it is necessary to accompany this change. As such, the France Recovery Plan could support this transformation, for example through a shift towards industrial and agricultural activities. The potato industry has begun its transition towards the gradual and concerted elimination of plastic packaging used in its business, in accordance with the law. The law provides for a cut-off date on 1 January 2022; It is already out of reach for a large number of professionals, especially since upstream manufacturers of packaging complying with the requirements of the AGEC Act are not in a position to respond to demand immediately. For potato producers, for example, the time allowed to adapt their practices and replace plastic packaging for weights below 1.5 kg is too short. They will not be ready for January 1, 2022. This outlook has a negative impact on industrial enterprises in this agri-food sector. Thus, the company Parmentine, located in my constituency, risks losing 3500 tonnes of potatoes and 4 million euros of turnover; It could lead to the elimination of fifteen jobs. The producers concerned are waiting to know the details of the implementing decree, but already want a longer period to adapt their practices and replace plastic packaging. The cut-off date of January 1, 2022 must be extended to relieve producers.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u148	The next speaker is the Minister for Transport.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u149	The Minister for the Ecological Transition and the Minister for Agriculture and Food, who cannot be present, have asked me to reply. Article 77 of the AGEC Act prohibits, from 1 January 2022, the overpacking of fruit and vegetables with plastic packaging at the time of sale. An order must specify the list of exempt fruits and vegetables to the extent that they present a risk of deterioration to the bulk sale. I share your concern to bring visibility to the fruit and vegetable sector's economic actors, producers and distributors as to how the law is applied. The National Food Council was asked at the beginning of 2020 to make recommendations on the implementation of this provision of the AGEC Act. After several months of consultation, it adopted an opinion calling for a gradual evolution of the list of exemptions, depending on the alternatives already available or still to be developed. A draft decree based on these recommendations was the subject of public consultation and stakeholder consultation in the first quarter of 2021. For example, with regard to early potatoes, it provides for the entry into force of the measure in 2024, in order to allow time for economic actors to adapt their practices and substitute new packaging for those of today, made of plastic. This text is being examined by the European Commission, in accordance with Community law, which provides for prior information to the Member States in the field of technical regulations. In view of the delays in this process, the Government is planning to issue the decree later this summer. I would point out that the Government is assisting businesses in this transition; Thus, within the framework of the recovery plan, specific financial resources are intended to support the projects of companies that develop plastic-free packaging solutions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u150	Mr Eric Girardin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u151	Thank you for these elements, which are in line with industrial demand. It would be good if the Government were to come closer to these channels, which have expressed their concerns to me.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u152	Mrs Clémentine Autain has the floor to put her question, No. 1431, on disability care.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u153	At a time when the health crisis and the waves of containment are increasingly weakening the support and follow-up of the people concerned, especially when they are young, I would like to ask the Government about its disability policy. In my constituency, I am constantly being questioned by parents, persons with disabilities, professionals in the sector, associations, about its shortcomings and its effects. In Tremblay, it's a medicalized foster home that sees its care of the sick damaged by the succession of budget cuts. In Sevran, she is a woman who evokes the case of her daughter suffering from autism and hemiplegic: she found herself overnight unschooled by the reconfinition and, for lack of room in the EMI, has no prospect of accompaniment. In Villepinte, she is a 10-year-old girl who still has no AESH – accompanying students with disabilities. Everywhere, it is the dizzying number of disabled children who find themselves without any solution of schooling despite the notifications of the departmental house of disabled persons (MDPH). It is all adults with disabilities who find themselves trapped in children's institutions because of the lack of places available in the structures dedicated to them. It is the saturation of medico-educational institutes (IME) that leaves so many parents in need and without accompaniment. It is the catastrophic lack of AESH in Seine-Saint-Denis, and in reality throughout the country, that prevents and delays the schooling of thousands of disabled children. In the midst of a health crisis, such a situation only precipitates disaster. And the Government, while multiplying the effects of communication and enshrining the handicap "great national cause", does not act – or so little, which is the same. You wanted to lower the allowance for disabled adults (AAH) by adding an activity condition. You refuse to vote for the removal of the spouse's income from the calculation of the HAA. You keep the AESHs in precarious condition, you are increasingly degrading their working conditions for such an unworthy salary. By denying them a status, the payment of the REP bonus – the priority education network – you condemn them to always make the support staff in schools already forced by the lack of material and human resources, especially in the most popular territories. You reduce the goals of accessibility of housing to people who are discriminated against because of their disability. You oppose a website and a green number when the Defender of Rights writes that such discrimination is the first ground of referral. When will the Government take into account the needs of persons with disabilities, their families as well as those who care for them, instead of taking fiscal austerity measures that fall a little more on the most fragile each day?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u154	The next speaker is the Minister for Transport.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u155	Madam Member, you have asked the Secretary of State for Disability, who, unable to be present, asked me to answer you. Let me first recall the considerable progress made since 2017 in the education of children with disabilities. Today, 385,000 students with disabilities are in school, or 3 per cent of the population. The national education budget for students with disabilities has increased by almost 60 per cent. In 2021, for example, there was an increase of EUR 250 million, raising the funding for this priority to EUR 3.3 billion for the next year. Massive recruitments were carried out to meet the structural increase in AESH's needs: 8000 full-time equivalents (FTEs) for the last re-entry, after the 8000 of the 2020 re-entry. In 2021, it is now 74835 FTEs that work in our schools. More generally, 272 new solutions were introduced with extensions of EMI or special education and home care services (SESSAD), corresponding to an envelope of €8.5 million in 2019. They have benefited people with autistic spectrum disorders or polydisability. More suitable solutions have also been found: mobile teams accompany people without a solution to their homes. Most recently, a project was approved to create IME-ASE institutions – child welfare – for children and adolescents with autistic spectrum disorders – ASD – and other neurodevelopmental disorders. Thanks to the funds mobilised under the Belgium Plan, we will be able to develop the supply for adults with disabilities in order to allow for EMI's exits. We are truly transforming the medico-social offer so that the current EMI places benefit from the most severe handicap situations, in parallel with inclusion and support in the ordinary environment of life for children whose disability allows it. The Government's road map is to find solutions that are closer to people's needs. Finally, in your department, Madam Member, in order to deal with the health crisis, EMIs have been transformed into boarding schools seven days a week with the voluntary operators of Seine-Saint-Denis, thus enabling 36 places to be mobilised within three EMIs to accompany children in complex situations of disability.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u156	Mrs Clementine Autain has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u157	I feel like I'm being answered "It's all very well, Madame Marquise! This is absolutely not the echo I received. I say again, I am repeatedly called upon, as the majority of us probably on his benches, by situations of immense distress affecting persons with disabilities and their families. I hear the numbers you're giving me, but for now they don't seem to have any effect. On the contrary, I have the impression that the demand resonance box is even larger. In addition, you did not reply to me on the status of staff. I asked you about this, but also about the reforms concerning the AAH. Thus, many of my inquiries remain unanswered today.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u158	The next speaker is Mr Stéphane Peu, to put his question, No. 1433, on the regularization of charges.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u159	If I dared to play a pun, I would say that there is currently water in the gas in my constituency between some tenants of several HLM cities and their lessor, a large and well-known public limited company called LogiRep. These households, who are already suffering from difficult housing conditions between incivilities, elevator breakdowns, traffic of all kinds, have just received regularisations of water loads that could be considered farfetched if they did not have potentially dramatic consequences for certain families: 500, 2000, up to 6000 euros for the last year alone! This regularization has been notified without justification, without prior verification, to families who are already in full contact with the health and social crisis. It could have been hoped that this crisis would lead to behaviour, as many organizations are fortunately doing, with a little compassion and responsibility to families already in difficulty. But, as if that were not enough, and despite the law, the lessor hastened to send letters of revival demanding the payment without delay of the sums deemed due, and even orders to pay within ten days by way of judicial officer under the threat of an expulsion that would be in addition to other difficulties, partial unemployment or even dismissal. Several families have made the choice to pay. Among them – as I pointed out because I met them – there are health workers who were mobilised day and night in the fight against the covid-19 and who had to get into debt to pay for these completely stuffed water regulations. Others, unable to advance such sums or borrow, have formed themselves as a group to denounce the actions of the lessor and demand explanations. These water bills do not correspond in any way to their usual consumption; the source of the problem would in fact arise from a problem of changing individual meters and from poor technical follow-up by the lessor or its suppliers. Of course I intervened with the lessor to demand explanations and apologies from the inhabitants, but this event is neither annoyed nor isolated. Deputy Minister, under the supervision of the Ministry of Housing over HLM organizations, I ask you to intervene so that such facts cannot be repeated. Of course, what is due is due, but there is a need for understanding, help and presence. However, as I know, the vast majority of HLM organizations act by being as close as possible to their tenants and by trying to listen to them and find the most appropriate solutions to the situation, but this is not the case for all. Therefore, do you intend to exercise your guardianship so that these donors take a reasonable attitude, a minimum understanding and solidarity?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u160	The next speaker is the Minister for Transport.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u161	You have questioned the Minister responsible for housing, on whose behalf I will therefore endeavour to answer you on this sensitive subject. The regularisation of charges is now perfectly regulated by law and regulation: recoverable charges are specified by decree; the law specifies the arrangements for advance payment and annual adjustment, as provided for in Article L. 442-3 of the Construction and Housing Code. The system is well known and has demonstrated its robustness. At present, there is no sign that would reveal a particular problem related to the regularization of burdens in the context of the health crisis. There may be difficulties here and there, linked to the decline in resources, but these are not specific to the payment of rental expenses and also include rent and, in general, the ability of tenants to meet the usual and recurring expenses. In addition, under article 1345-5 of the Civil Code, debtors may request a spread of their debt over 24 months. This decision is a matter for the judge, but the social lessor may itself grant such payment facilities. Finally, if the annual adjustment shows a significant difference between the amount provided and the actual amount of the expenses due, the tenant may incur the liability of the landlord and obtain damages for the damage suffered by him as a result of the understatement of the provision. The Government has fully mobilized to ensure that existing aid, including from the Housing Solidarity Fund, the FSL, can be usefully deployed to help the most vulnerable tenants, and has established an exceptional rent unpaid fund to support the FSL in 2021. Many social donors have introduced monitoring systems to accompany their tenants; They have always been both very human and very professional, respecting their social vocation. The Government therefore notes that the overall system within it is highly involved and robust. The very particular subject of the regularisation of burdens does not appear to be subject to specific treatment in that it does not relate to specific problems linked explicitly to crisis management.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u162	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u163	I am well aware of the Minister's response, including on remedies. Most HLM donors act with a great deal of humanity and being faithful to their social vocation – we agree on this. It was an invitation to react against the very small minority of donors who would act too coldly, technocraticly, without measuring the dramatic consequences for the individual situation of the families concerned. I've seen people really in distress. When you receive 1200 euros of salary and are claimed 6000 euros of water loads, which is also unverifiable and totally unwarranted, you plunge into total distress. If, moreover, you have lost your job, as is the case with many people because of this social crisis, it is absolutely terrible. At the very least, let a directive be given that these subjects should be treated with as much humanity as possible, so that all donors respect their social vocation. This is the case for the majority of them, but not for a few.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u164	Mrs Sandrine Mörch has the floor to put her question, No 1444, on the situation of social workers.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u165	I would like to refer to the situation of social workers, those who have been in direct contact with the field and on the front line for a year. From one day to the next, they saw an increase in their scope of intervention. They had to compensate the absent staff, so people at risk, contact cases, positive cases. The first confinement was very complicated to live for them too, because they were confronted with all new and often dramatic situations: the brutal cessation of many precarious jobs or the fall of many self-entrepreneurs and artisans hurled whole families to them. Many social workers have explained to us that, for the first time in their careers, they have been confronted with people who are hungry. Faced with this violent situation, they found themselves torn between their concern to help the most precarious, which is the DNA of their profession, and their own fear of getting sick and contaminating their loved ones. Almost a year later, the situation did not necessarily improve for them as they followed the summer period when many invested in the learning holiday operation. Since March 2020, they have taken very little leave to ensure a well-being for these children and their families, well aware of being the essential link between the citizen in distress and the state, and of being few to respond physically present, which is absolutely fundamental in times of great trouble. Indeed, it is difficult to manage a video conferencing bankruptcy or emergency hosting by interposed answering machine. Even today, social workers have to deal with services that are constantly being reorganised. In Haute-Garonne, the houses of solidarity offer only telephone appointments, within six weeks. So how should the social worker react to a person in an inextricable situation when he is told that nothing is possible for 45 days? Their reaction is physical and moral exhaustion. Today, we must give them the recognition they deserve, which goes through words, but also through financial rewards. Social and medico-social workers in the private non-market sector – associations – were not able to benefit from the increases in Segur. As part of the Laforcade mission, negotiations have been opened, but the workers in the exclusion sector fear that they will be excluded from it and that they will be limited to those who care for the elderly. In addition, their employers and associations themselves face financial difficulties and cannot increase them if their own tariffs are not revalued by the financiers, namely the State and the departmental councils. So, Madam Deputy Minister, what steps can you take to ensure that these women and men, who are unwaveringly committed and an essential link to the cohesion of our country, are not forgotten and have the right recognition they deserve?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u166	The Deputy Minister for Self-Government has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u167	You know that, in the context of a health crisis and beyond, the social work environment is well known to me. I know that social workers are essential to support the care of particularly fragile and vulnerable populations in this period of crisis. It is therefore essential to highlight the work done by all these professionals. The High Council for Social Work, which I had the honour of creating and the pleasure of chairing, reported in a recent report, which I welcome, on the impact of the health crisis on the engagement of social workers and their professional practice. First of all, through you, I want to pay tribute to them. Let me also point out that in order to recognise this commitment and dedication, an exceptional premium, known as the covid bonus, amounting to 1000 to 1500 euros, defied and exempt from social contributions, was created for the year 2020. Financial compensation has been applied for institutions and services financed or co-financed by health insurance or government budgetary programmes. Some departments, such as the Landes, Marne or Pas-de-Calais, have chosen to extend this premium to social workers. On the occasion of the agreements of the Ségur de la santé last July, the Government introduced an additional indexary treatment for staff in health institutions and EHPADs and, at the same time, undertook to carry out complementary work – you mentioned them – with regard to professionals in the social and medico-social sector. This mission was entrusted to Michel Laforcade, who will report in July. In this context, it is proposed that the social partners in the non-profit sector address the issue of the evolution of the remuneration of professionals working with people. We associate all the financiers, whom you have also mentioned, with these discussions, because there are a lot of different operators. This consultation will be initiated by the end of the year in the framework of a social conference. Be assured that we will support these professionals.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u168	Mrs Sandrine Mörch has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u169	Thank you for your answer. The crisis has the merit of highlighting the social workers, who are often silent, work in the shadows and have not always been recognized at their fair value until then. We must not allow this open window to be closed on these absolutely fundamental links in our society, which represent an essential interface between the State and citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u170	Mr Bernard Bouley has the floor to put his question, No. 1446, on home nursing services.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u171	Home nursing services are struggling in great difficulty and in general indifference. They have been working with the Covid-19 for a year and, thanks to their efforts, have managed to protect our elders. In my constituency, among the patients followed by ASAD – Association of Home Care and Help – no cases of covid -19 were to be deplored during the first confinement and very few are currently. The health crisis has highlighted the urgent need for a overhaul of our public health system. While the Ségur de la santé is far from having provided all the necessary answers and has not been up to the challenges, home nursing services have been the biggest forgotten ones. No funding has been provided to provide staff with a lump sum allowance for covid-19 and no prospect has been given for a financial upgrading of the careers of SSIAD employees – home nursing services. There is a widening gap between hospital and home nursing conditions, which are increasingly less attractive. However, in her answer to a question from Senator Jean-Raymond Hugonet, the Minister of Solidarity and Health stated in 2019 that "the lever of major change that constitutes the upgrading of the professions of older age has been identified as one of the priorities, in order to significantly increase the attractiveness of the sector and to improve the home care of older persons or persons with disabilities." In this regard, a report commissioned by Myriam El Khomri in 2019 estimated the need for training for more than 350,000 older professionals by 2024. At the time of the presentation of this report, Mrs Agnès Buzyn made the following statement: "Very strong findings on the professions of old age and autonomy have been made and these findings are those of the affected professions. » On the basis of this accumulation of missions and reports and the alarmist findings confirmed by the Government, I would like to know what measures the executive intends to take quickly to improve the quality of the professions of the elderly, including the situation of health professionals working in the home nursing services.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u172	The Deputy Minister for Self-Government has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u173	Upon taking up his duties, the Government took full advantage of the indispensable role of home nursing services. For my part, when I was appointed, I began to make eligible the personnel working there at the covid premium, which they had not received. So they don't work in general indifference, believe it. The involvement of this sector has been and remains decisive in the management of the crisis, and I am fully aware that it faces significant recruitment and attractiveness difficulties. Unfortunately, this deficit is not new: it has persisted for decades, which is abnormal. We therefore share your observation and indignation, and that is why we intervene. In consultation with the social partners, we recognised the mobilisation and participation of the medico-social sector by granting SSIAD employees an exceptional premium of EUR 1000 to EUR 1500, offset in full by sickness insurance. We also carry out complementary work with regard to professionals in the social and medico-social sector, to which these staff are attached. To this end, a mission was entrusted to Michel Laforcade, former director of the ARS – Agence régionale de santé – de Nouvelle-Aquitaine, which will soon lead to the salary enhancement of all the non-medical professionals of the ASIADs attached to the health facilities and autonomous EHPADs, who are part of the hospital public service. This additional remuneration will be the same as that received by their colleagues in other services. Negotiations with the social partners are continuing with regard to paramedical workers employed in the SSIADs of the territorial civil service and the few employees working in the private non-profit sector, who are covered by a collective agreement other than that of the home care branch. For those who work in a non-profit private service SSIAD, the addition of 43 to the collective agreement of the home help branch, which I will approve this month, will allow them to receive an average raise of 15% of their salary from next October. This is a historic measure that you passed as part of the Social Security Financing Bill for 2021. The State will therefore accompany the departments. Thus, at a time when €8.2 billion is being spent on salary adjustments for healthcare professionals, let me state that the Government is up to the challenge and is making a legitimate reparation. I have embarked on a business plan, inspired by Myriam El Khomri's report, in order to restore their dignity to all healthcare professionals and to give the sector a necessary attractiveness. While the Government is mobilizing €200 million in full-year funding for home care employees alone, everyone will recognize an unprecedented effort.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u174	Mr Bernard Bouley has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u175	Thank you, Madam Deputy Minister. I will pass this information on to the staff concerned and am satisfied that you share my concerns in large part.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u176	Mrs Martine Wonner, speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, raised her question, No. 1452, concerning the wearing of the mask by children at school.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u177	For several months now, wearing the mask for children in school has become a norm. However, the implications for health, as well as language learning, need to be considered. Difficulties of understanding were noted, as well as the sometimes impossible distinction of phonemes and the impoverishment of the quality of interactions. Entry into communication and language among younger people is based on direct interaction, mimicry, observation of the adult's face, and especially of the mouth. The inviolability of the mask rule among children and educational staff is eased only in very specific cases, such as in residential dormitories. Even sport continues, most of the time, to be practiced masked. The cynicism that can be demonstrated by the administration when it comes to dehumanizing is thus denounced here. These harmful guidelines for children are to be put in perspective with the abandonment of the wearing of the mask at school in a region such as French-speaking Belgium or in some German Länder, following political choices or court decisions such as that of the Weimar court in April 2021. Note that there is no question here of questioning the usefulness of wearing the mask for adults in certain specific configurations, but of pointing to the imbalance between the very limited health issues for children and their learning of language and reading. It seems to me that we are faced with the urgent need to adapt the measures in force to the multiple calls of the child and early childhood sector, based on the psychological and educational consequences of these measures.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u178	The Deputy Minister for Self-Government has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u179	Let me recall two key elements. First of all, in order for there to be learning, there still needs to be a framework. In this regard, France is one of the countries that has kept schools open the longest since the beginning of the health crisis. Secondly, the obligation to wear the mask for children runs only from the age of 6 years and is based on several scientific studies. France is not the only country to have taken such a step: it is also the case of Italy, Spain, Greece and Austria. And that was also Germany's choice before that country closed its schools. The closure of schools during the first confinement caused many problems and increased social inequalities. That is why France has chosen to keep them as open as possible, in order to preserve an education for all. To do this, and in the face of the circulation of the virus and variants, we have mobilized and continue to mobilize all the means at our disposal, such as the performance of salivary tests, respect for distancing and the wearing of the mask in the classroom. There remains a proven risk of transmission of the virus between children, especially in enclosed areas and brewing areas. Both the French Paediatric Society, in accordance with the WHO recommendation, and the High Council for Public Health have expressed their support for wearing the mask in children over the age of 6. In its opinion of 29 October 2020, the High Council for Public Health stated that there is no dermatological, pneumonological, ENT, phoniatric or psychiatric contraindication to wearing the mask. However, the obligation to wear masks in establishments is not absolute. Kindergarten students, in full language learning, do not wear them and inclusive masks have been made available to their teachers. A decree also provides for exceptions on medical advice. In this regard, schools for deaf and hard of hearing students, where the requirement to wear masks is an obvious obstacle to learning, have been provided with appropriate masks. When eating meals and performing sports, the wearing of the mask is also not mandatory. In these situations, particular attention must be paid to the limitation of brewing and respect for distancing. Thus, in the face of the crisis that we are going through, maintaining access to education for children is a necessity that you probably adhere to, in order to guarantee learning for all. It is the priority of the Government, which mobilizes the means to enable it, the wearing of the mask at school being fully part of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u180	Mrs Martine Wonner has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u181	Thank you for that clarification. However, you should know that the parents who contact us are very worried. You have quoted the French Paediatric Society, but it has also issued a real alarm call in the face of the resurgence of consultations of young children in paediatric emergencies for psychiatric reasons. Unprecedentedly, children go so badly that they plan to act and attempt suicide. Also know that alternative devices, although difficult to apply and still unproven, exist, such as measuring the level of oxygen saturation. Unfortunately – I insist on this word – children are adaptable. However, we do not have sufficient hindrance on the long-term consequences of wearing the mask. And I conclude by telling you that the United Kingdom has just decided to abolish this measure for children in schools from 17 May next. I therefore call for a similar awareness on the part of the French Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u182	Mr Belkhir Belhaddad has the floor to put his question, No. 1437, on the training of nurses in the French-Luxembourg border zone.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u183	The vocation crisis and the shortage of nurses are not unique to the Moselle. Around the world, almost 9 million jobs are missing, while almost 7,500 are not filled in France. This problem has a particular dimension in my constituency and in neighbouring territories, because of the proximity and attractiveness of hospitals in the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg. I'm talking about a neighbouring country where the average salary of a nurse is almost 94,000 euros a year, three times as high as on our side of the border. I am well aware of the considerable efforts that have been made by the Government in the framework of the Secur de la santé to raise salaries, but nurses trained in our IFSI – nursing training institutes – remain insufficiently attracted to the positions offered by health facilities, particularly in my department. They prefer to join the nearly 100,000 frontier workers working in Luxembourg. I believe it is urgent to discuss this issue with our Luxembourg friends in order to jointly consider the training of our nurses, adapting their numbers to the needs of both countries and sharing the design, funding and governance of educational projects. We could, in the name of the differentiation of territories, design in Moselle the first binational institutes for the training of nurses. We could, in the name of the links between our two countries, and as we have done in the field of mobility, design a project defined by a bilateral convention. I would therefore like to know what initiatives the Government has taken, both from the Ministry of Health and the Quai d'Orsay, to address this issue. I would also like to know how this issue will be taken into account in the preparation of the next intergovernmental conference between France and Luxembourg, which will take place in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u184	The Deputy Minister for Self-Government has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u185	Mr Belkhir Belhaddad, I take full measure of what you are saying, that is, the competition from Luxembourg, which weighs on our nursing demographics. The subject of training, cooperation and attractiveness is one of the Government's priorities. A measure of the recovery plan foresees the creation of 6000 new training places between 2020 and 2022. The Greater East region is among the regions that contribute the most to this effort, with 510 additional first-year places scheduled for 2022. The ARS is participating in this financial effort for some of the places created in 2020, alongside your region. As far as attractiveness is concerned, you will agree that the Government, within the framework of the Ségur, is embarking on a historical upgrading of these professions, in order to ensure the attractiveness of public careers. It is historic, but in the cross-border context you refer to, we need to go further. French diplomacy is working to that end. In the area of cooperation, the Government is fully aware of the mobility of populations between France and Luxembourg and, with a view to improving the quality of care and the organisation of healthcare systems, both countries have formalised their health cooperation through the framework agreement and its implementing agreement of 21 November 2016. The aim is to ensure better access to care and continuity of care for cross-border populations. This cooperation includes optimising the organisation of care by facilitating the use and sharing of human and material resources. The subject of joint health training is obviously one of the themes of this cooperation in the fields of health and higher education. It is expected that it will be on the agenda of the next Intergovernmental Conference, which will take place this summer, and has already been discussed at the preparatory conference held in Luxembourg in mid-March. On this occasion, the proposal for joint training and exchanges of trainees which you refer to has been formulated. Luxembourg indicated that a reform of health studies was under way and that it was ready to work on exchanges of trainees and the principle of joint training for specialist nurses. The French and Luxembourg authorities have agreed to extend the working group we have set up on this subject and to organise this reception as early as September 2021. The Government has therefore taken full advantage of this issue and is mobilizing all the levers at its disposal to ensure better care for our citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u186	Mr Belkhir Belhaddad has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u187	Thank you for all this clarification, Madam Deputy Minister. You have done well to highlight the progress made in recent years and months, including the creation of more than 6000 training places, funded by the Greater East SAR and the region. I really count on you, at the Intergovernmental Conference, to raise the voice of France and to ensure that the solutions found restore a form of fairness.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u188	Mr Joachim Son-Forget spoke of his question, No. 1458, concerning access to the public service of French nationals abroad.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u189	The administrative services used by the French abroad have certainly improved in recent years, but the health crisis has revealed some shortcomings that persist. In particular, I will take the example of the expats' information on their retirement rights, which is not always possible. Indeed, the French platforms are not accessible from abroad because you must either have a French telephone number, be insured in France or have paid your taxes there. Many pensioners, who do not have the connection information, have only limited access to the website info-retirement.fr and are obliged to send their certificate of existence by post; They're worried, they feel overwhelmed, they're forgotten. Defence and Citizenship Day (DDC) is another example of these shortcomings. Because of the covid, young French people living abroad cannot accomplish their JDC at a distance, as their compatriots living in France are currently doing. They are therefore obliged to apply for a carry-over certificate in order to be able to pass the ferry or their driver's licence. This is all the more deplorable since many young binationals do not always have the information or education abroad to maintain an effective link with France, even though their involvement would be very important for the country's visibility. In addition, the information provided by consular officers is very incomplete, and they have even admitted that they are no longer organizing JDCs on the spot. While the JDC is essential to enrol in higher education, all that is proposed is a deferral certificate. That's not enough. Finally, according to the French in my constituency, access to administrative services has been a real problem since the beginning of the health crisis. I do not blame consular officers or diplomats, with whom we have excellent relations and who do remarkable work; However, the promise of equal access to public services for all French citizens is not fulfilled. Today, French foreigners are obliged to travel to access basic services or to reissue their identity papers. This puts many of them in very uncomfortable situations, forced that they are to make appointments months in advance or connect to the servers between midnight and an hour in the morning to enjoy withdrawals. This distress in which hundreds or even thousands of people find themselves has even made the headlines of the Swiss press. I therefore hope that the Government will urgently address this delicate state of affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u190	The Deputy Minister for Self-Government has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u191	Mr Son-Forget, my colleague Jean-Baptiste Lemoyne, Secretary State in charge of tourism, French, foreign and French-speaking countries, whom I would like to apologise for and represent, is of course very attached to the access of our citizens who reside abroad to administrative services, and in particular to the question of the accessibility of the public service, which falls within the remit of the Ministry of Transformation and Public Service. The modernization of consular action is the subject of three priority projects: the electronic civil registry, Internet voting and the French consular platform, which was presented to the Council of Ministers a month ago. As a reminder, FranceConnect was created in 2016, and it normally allows any user with an account on taxes.gouv.fr, Ameli or the MSA – agricultural social mutuality – or a digital identity of La Poste or "Mobile Connect et moi", and I pass, to connect to more than 800 online services, without creating a new identifier. However, many Members have already reported this to us, despite these many identities federated in the FranceConnect tool, some French abroad do not have any of these prerequisites and cannot access the services offered by FranceConnect. Developments are expected in this area this year: La Poste's digital identity should soon accept mobile numbers, regardless of the code – French and non-French – the identity "Mobile Connect et moi" reserved for Orange subscribers should evolve towards a new concept, Iris, which will target all individuals, regardless of the telephone operator and regardless of the country of residence code. Finally, the deployment of the national electronic identity card, which will be supported by a secure digital identity, will also eventually make it possible for all French nationals, regardless of their place of residence, to access FranceConnect. These necessary adjustments will enable all our citizens to have equal access to public services.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u192	Mr Joachim Son-Forget has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u193	Thank you, Madam Deputy Minister, for these answers, which are satisfactory in terms of improving and rationalizing computer tools. As far as the renewal of identity documents is concerned, I will not take you as a traitor, because I know that this is not within your competence, but the Swiss consulate is the largest of our consulates abroad in terms of French attached to it, and it would be desirable that, in this region bordering France, a computer rationalisation be carried out or that official coordination be established between the two countries. Thank you for conveying this message to your colleague Jean-Baptiste Lemoyne, because there is a real urgency.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u194	We have concluded the oral questions without debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-11-O1270.u195	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Questions to the Government; Continuation of the draft law on the management of the exit from health crisis; Proposal for a law to accelerate economic and professional equality. The meeting is adjourned.
