ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u1	The next item is the second reading of the proposal for a law on the heritage protection and promotion of regional languages (No. 3658, 4035).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u2	The next speaker is the Minister for National Education, Youth and Sport.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u3	[[Smile]] If there's no cyberattack!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u4	After being examined by your assembly on February 13, 2020, and discussed in the Senate on December 10, the bill of MP Paul Molac on the heritage protection of regional languages and their promotion is now being submitted to the National Assembly at second reading. First of all, I would like to reaffirm the position I have always taken on the development of regional language teaching. This position is, of course, that of a republican, but I would say that it is also that of a constitutionalist, not in the ordinary sense of the term, as a specialist in the Constitution, but as a constitutional activist. In other words, we are all constitutionalists.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u5	And therefore an activist of Article 75-1!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u6	Of course, I'm coming, Congressman. My position reconciles respect for article 2 of the Constitution, according to which "the language of the Republic is French", and the recognition and promotion of article 75-1, according to which "regional languages belong to the heritage of France".
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u7	Thank you for focusing on this article!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u8	It is with this double imperative, with this double compass which, in fact, forms only one, that I affirm: the teaching of regional languages must be preserved and supported. This is obviously not a conciliation issue: it is an additional issue.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u9	And adoption!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u10	We must be part of a concerted approach that is sensitive to the realities of the field, taking into account all the issues facing our school, while respecting the legal framework and the values that unite us. It is, moreover, already a reality. Indeed, as some may say, national education has an important place in regional languages and focuses on their development. Yes, the educational reality is much more harmonious and favorable to regional languages than the cartoons we sometimes hear. I want proof, for example, of the situation of Breton and Gallo...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u11	What about the Occitan?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u12	... in your region, Mr. Rapporteur. Today, 8200 pupils benefit from the teaching of a regional language in the public schools of the Rennes Academy, which represents an increase of 31 per cent in the number of pupils in five years. At the beginning of 2020, out of the thirty job creations allocated by the Academy to the means of teaching in the first degree – these are indeed job creations, with fewer students – twenty-four and a half were devoted to the development of the bilingual French-Breton channels: we cannot say that we sacrifice the subject. The number of pupils enrolled in bilingual education courses is steadily increasing: 2600 pupils concerned at the beginning of 2020, 142 more than in 2018. As in the new school year 2020, about ten projects to open new bilingual French-Breton courses at the college and high school are currently being educated for the new school year 2021. Moreover, the Academy is committed to strengthening the means of the future State-region convention, by creating new devices – such as digital spaces in high school – co-financed by the recovery plan. The schools will thus be equipped with synchronous distance teaching equipment, which will allow them to accommodate all high school students who wish to follow the Breton and Gallo teachings. Finally, and I will come back to that, a distance education course for Breton will be created by the National Centre for Distance Learning (CNED). For the first time, Breton will integrate the national – and, in fact, global – offer of distance learning. It is an element of the influence of Breton at the international level, which is completely new and whose importance cannot be underestimated. As part of the reform of the high school, it will also allow first and final pupils to continue learning the Breton language and to choose it as a living language at the baccalaureate. The one who spoke to you had chosen Breton as an option at the baccalaureate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u13	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u14	[[Smile]] What grade did you get?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u15	At the time, CNED did not assume this option: I would have enrolled in distance training if it had existed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u16	You don't realize the dreams of your youth!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u17	Mr Le Fur, do not exhaust yourself now: I understand that your program of the day was rather busy. Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u18	Mr Le Fur, of course I am pleased with your motivation. I have spoken of Breton, but its situation is similar to that of all regional languages at the national level: 120,000 pupils are taught in this field. In the first degree, 2932 positions of teachers in schools responsible for regional language teaching were opened between 2002 and 2019. In the second degree, 602 teachers teach regional languages every day in their classroom, including 540 CAPES holders – a certificate of second degree teacher's aptitude – a regional language – Basque, Breton, Catalan, Corsican, Creole, Occitan-language of Oc, and fifteen holders of the most recent French language aggregation, opened at the 2018 session. I therefore repeat this very clearly: our educational reality has given way to regional languages for many years. This is one of the lines of strength that we would like to see more shared by the various legislatures. This educational reality is based on the Constitution, specifically article 75-1, which in 2008 included regional languages as part of France's heritage. It then draws its source from the code of education, in particular in its article L. 312-10 which states: "The regional languages and cultures belonging to the heritage of France, their teaching is favored primarily in the regions where they are in use. Such education may be provided throughout the course of schooling in accordance with the arrangements laid down by agreement between the State and the territorial authorities in which these languages are used. [...] The optional teaching of the regional language and culture is offered in one of the following two forms: a teaching of the regional language and culture; bilingual instruction in the French and regional languages. » In essence, what do these texts tell us? First, only territorial and linguistic warfare, there is no longer; that France has found the right balance between the country and the nation; that each one of us build his or her identity by enriching himself or herself with the different ties he or she has with the cultures and traditions that surround and inspire him or her, and which he or she inherits or seizes. This is what the President of the Republic in Quimper said in his speech of 21 June 2018: he saw, in the Breton flags and the French flags that were alongside each other, "the sign of pride that adds to each other".
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u19	A beautiful speech!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u20	Our nation is more than the sum of its parts: it is the whole spirit and ambition of its universalism, it is all its ideal to transcend the particularisms of singular belongings, to unite them in a community of destiny and inspiration. This dynamic therefore does not aim at erasure: it is an enrichment. This coexistence is not a subordination: it is a concord and a chance. It is therefore not a question of opposing memberships and territories. On the contrary, it is a question of recognizing, in the French crucible, the different dimensions of the person and the citizen that will allow him to find his roots in his local territory, in his regional language, and to be fulfilled in the national project that we all carry as French. It is the whole ambition of our republic to build common ground from our differences and diversity, and we all know how important this ambition is today: the republican crucible is not a vain word. "The exclusive fatality, the only tare that can afflict a human group and prevent it from fully realizing its nature, is to be alone," wrote Claude Lévi-Strauss in Structural Anthropology. As a Frenchman, we have the great opportunity not to be alone, to benefit from the richness of many cultures and languages in our territory, and the honour of being united by the same inspiration. We have managed to associate and unite one and the multiple. Our school has no other objective than to guarantee this dual achievement, by offering a teaching of French and, for those who wish, a regional language. It thus allows each child to extend its roots and spread its wings: extend its roots by transmitting the knowledge of past centuries – and thus, eventually, by a regional language; spread its wings by opening its horizon of knowledge to the universal and to the future. How can we support this dual dynamic? I would like to clarify the principles that guide my education policy for the teaching of regional languages, and that are legible in what we have already achieved since 2017. The first of these principles is the recognition of a diverse heritage, which requires the teaching of well-represented regional languages, because the languages of our regions are among the cultural treasures of our country and because they contribute to our intellectual and sensitive achievement of human beings. The list of these languages is contained in the circular of 12 April 2017 on the teaching of regional languages and cultures and is not frozen. During the examination of Article 2 quater, we will discuss the situation of languages in Mayotte. It seems to me both legitimate and opportune to work for their recognition, especially since experiments are already being conducted by the Mayotte Academy, using the shimoré and kibushi, as part of a transitional bilingualism to help students access their language of schooling, French. He who speaks to you has exercised responsibilities overseas, particularly in French Guiana, in favour of regional languages, be they Native American or Bushinengued languages. It is obvious that we must accept these various languages. As far as Mayotte is concerned, if the project is obviously to be educated and probably developed, it would be a great initiative, as we have just celebrated the tenth anniversary of the départementalisation of the archipelago and since 1 January 2020 it has become a rectorate and an academic region of full exercise. The second principle on which I intend to base education policy for regional languages is fair respect for measurement and balance. It is these requirements that lead national education to support the model of bilingual education in the regional language with hourly parity, in schools and regional language sections of colleges and high schools. Exceeding this parity would call into question article 2 of the Constitution and, consequently, the harmony between the regional and national levels. We cannot claim that the school is the French crucible and support the idea that learning our common language would be supplanted by another language. In this area, I will stick to the strict observance of the law. The subject was informed in 2002 by an opinion of the Council of State, to which I will stand especially since I am convinced that the first years of learning French are absolutely decisive for the acquisition of the fundamental structures of syntax and for the development of the lexical background which is known to be one of the first conditions of learning. It is this same conviction that led me to bring down compulsory education to the age of 3, because kindergarten must be, even more so than the others, the school of language and the discovery of the French language. That is why I shall express an unfavorable opinion on Article 2b of the draft law, which calls for the development of "immersive education in the regional language, without prejudice to the objective of a good knowledge of the French language", but which does not define the modalities for achieving this objective, whereas education would no longer be provided only in the regional language. I sometimes hear that experiments have been carried out in this field, which sometimes last without falling within the procedural framework of an experiment. I don't want to go back to the existing one. I have, for example, very much welcomed the work done by Diwan, which corresponds in my view to the Republican framework, but the introduction of immersive teaching can only be the exception: it cannot be the general solution because it could break with the well-understood purpose of bilingualism, that of a joint teaching of French and a regional language. Scientific studies show this: there can be no full effectiveness in language learning unless one guarantees their concomitance and resonance. It is all the contribution of bilingualism and plurilingualism, from a cognitive and cultural point of view, to develop thus, through the confrontation and diversity of languages, the intellectual faculties of students and to extend their possibilities of understanding the world by understanding other ways of saying it or being able to say it. It would be paradoxical to challenge what is sometimes called the French monopoly in order to replace it with another monopoly. I would add that there is a social risk behind immersion: I am sometimes objected that students who practice immersive teaching speak French perfectly elsewhere.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u21	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u22	But that's because their families speak French very well. If we generalize this approach, we would risk excluding families who do not speak French at home, and then we would end up with children whose French would be excluded from the linguistic environment – I regularly receive requests for evolution on the subject. That is why I intend to preserve the framework defined for the second degree exams, for the national patent diploma (DNB) and for the bachelor's degree.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u23	Bilingualism is a chance!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u24	As I was telling you, I take seriously the two articles of the Constitution I have quoted. At the DNB, students in the third of the French-language regional bilingual sections are offered the opportunity to compose in French or in the regional language during the written examination, which covers French, history-geography and moral and civic education programs, for the exercises that open up this possibility. This is also the possibility, in the context of the oral examination, of presenting a project on regional languages and cultures, which the candidate may present in part in the regional language. Second, students who have validated the A2 level of the Common European Framework of Reference for Languages are offered the opportunity to receive a "regional language" entry followed by the designation of the language concerned on their DNB. At the general and technological baccalaureate, if the joint evaluations of history-geography and scientific teaching can be conducted in the regional language with subjects prepared for this purpose and paid to the national bank, the final exams – or 60% of the grade – have passed exclusively in French, with the exception of students who take special education "languages, literature and foreign and regional cultures",...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u25	It's not the same thing!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u26	... who will also be able to pass a portion of their oral language in the regional language. In fact, I note in passing, this is further progress for the regional languages. This is also the expression of full recognition, which, in a requirement of balance, must be reconciled with the concern to preserve the national framework expected for the examination, which is the guarantee of its value. It was with this dual concern of recognition and balance that I responded favourably to the request for a revision of the new model of the future Corsican CAPES for the 2022 session. The solution found raises the coefficient devolved to the Corsican language to 8 on a total coefficient of 12. It will include an applied written disciplinary test, half of which will consist of a written expression in Corsican language and a lesson test, the first oral admission test credited with a coefficient of 5, which will be fully presented in Corsican language and not only half. It will be the three disciplinary tests of the new CAPES that will mobilize the Corsican language as a read, written and spoken language. I wanted to recognize in this way the special situation of this monovalent CAPES, which we are celebrating this year's thirty years of existence. This attention to specific situations follows a third principle: it requires careful and informed attention to the challenges of teaching and to the possibilities of pathways offered to students as close as possible to the educational territories. This is why the map of regional language teaching cannot be drawn up simply from Paris. On the contrary, it must be based on an end-to-end examination of demand and supply, enriching itself with the study of possibilities, in particular human resources, and opportunities. This is why it must also be conducted in consultation with regional language actors and advocates who sit on the academic councils of regional languages and promote these languages within the public offices of regional languages. It is this spirit and this dynamic of consultation that brings together the various educational actors in your region, the rapporteur, Brittany, and the President of the Regional Council himself acknowledged this in a letter addressed to me on 10 March. To define this map, it is not a question of adopting a forced quantitative logic, at the risk of developing sections that would not meet their audience. I would also point out that we are obliged to make good use of the money of our fellow citizens: the slope sometimes leads us to devote a large part of public money to regional languages with more favourable rates of supervision for the pupils concerned. We must also pay attention to fairness. That is why section 3 of this bill, which, in my view, has a certain vagueness, intends to propose the teaching of the regional language to all pupils, can potentially lead to proposing it to those who do not want it, and I believe that I need to be revised to clarify the framework for the provision of education and to incorporate this requirement. Our discussions will shed light on this issue. Nor is it a question of proposing an offer based on distorted competition, such as a school pass paid to any municipality whose private school would offer regional language education. You have, in committee, deleted Article 2d, the consequences of which could have been multiple, both on the question of a recently arbitrated legislative framework and on the municipal budgets concerned and on the school map. This prudent decision seems to me to be welcome. The teaching of regional languages requires careful attention and constant attention to the needs of pupils, rather than flashing actions. We can be lucid and demanding in order to strive for consistent courses for students: let us therefore focus on quality. This is precisely what we have devoted ourselves to by proposing a variety of regional language courses possible within the new general and technological high school. In this new high school, which is the result of the reform, a pupil can choose to take a teaching of regional languages and cultures, either as a living language B with a coefficient greater than before our reform, 6 out of 600 against 2 out of 40 before – this is the case for 4367 pupils – either as a living language C, as part of an optional teaching – this is the case for 3389 pupils – or as a special education in the final cycle, with rich and ambitious programmes backed by important coefficients, 16 out of 100 of the bachelor's degree: 227 first and 207 students of the final stage are involved – their number is intended to grow. We have therefore increased the possibilities of learning a regional language in high school by maintaining the same hourly volumes for the existing offer and, above all, by offering, with the new specialization courses, important timetables that allow students to discover in depth the characteristics of both languages and regional cultures. I heard criticisms of the difficulties some high school students would face in attending regional language education.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u27	High school is too late!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u28	[[Murmures on several banks in the LR Group]] However, let us draw the right diagnosis from the current situation. The demands of pupils and families are constantly falling at the age of high school – this phenomenon is independent of the reform. As we all know, it is not possible to consider classes for one, two or three students. Would our students then be condemned to abandon this apprenticeship? No, we must avoid it as much as possible by working towards a better match between the demand for education and the supply of education. This is why it is certainly necessary to improve the meshing of this offer. I have shown very frequently our openness on this point. That is why we also need to find additional ways of teaching, in particular through the possibilities offered by digital technology. I am thinking of inter-institutional education,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u29	It's beautiful, tomorrow's school!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u30	... in face-to-face or at a distance, which has shown its effectiveness in the teaching of rare languages. I have sometimes attended such very effective sessions. I am also thinking – I have already referred to it – of the expertise that CNED has acquired and that it can now develop for the teaching of regional languages. That's why I asked CNED to design courses for students interested in Basque, Breton, Corsican and Occitan for the re-entry of 2021.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u31	What about the Alsatian?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u32	This will provide them with an offer of quality training, which can be based on support in the institution by a professor with recognized skills. This offer will be effective as soon as the coming year on the terminal cycle for the living language C. At the beginning of 2022, we will further develop it by extending it to the second class for the living language C and extending it to the living language B. This innovation cannot be underestimated: we can multiply the number of learners in these languages, both nationally and internationally. One particular point concerns the attractiveness of optional regional language teaching and its assessment at the baccalaureate level. Certainly, we must be vigilant and, if necessary, reconsider the situation. I have heard the requests on the subject: this is an important issue, which goes beyond the framework of regional languages and concerns all the options offered in the new high school. I am very attentive to the fact that the general and technological lycées preserve a rich range of optional teachings and, to this end, I have commissioned the General Inspectorate of Education, Sport and Research, which will give me its analysis and recommendations at the end of this month.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u33	A report, a commission!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u34	Ladies and gentlemen, we all share the ambition to offer interested students a diverse, continuous and rich regional language teaching. To do so, I reiterate here, we need to build a dynamic and scalable supply that exploits all the new opportunities offered by network dynamics and digital technology as closely as possible; an offer which respects the legislative and constitutional framework and which focuses on the continuity of the journeys; an offer that cares about the courses open to students so that they can develop solid learning and deepen their discovery of a rich language and culture; Finally, an offer which is part of what I would call the French spirit, that of a fair balance between the language of the territories and our national language. That is why the positions I will take on this law are positions to encourage regional languages in line with what has already been achieved and with the legislative and infra-legislative commitments that I can take in accordance with Articles 2 and 75 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u35	Mr Paul Molac, rapporteur of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u36	I am very pleased that today we are discussing this text which we adopted at first reading in the House a little more than a year ago, just before the start of the health crisis. [[Applause on the banks of theLT,LaREM,LR,DemetAgir ensemble]] Regional languages are a wealth, a treasure, not only regional but also national and international. However, this wealth, despite the efforts highlighted by the Minister, is classified in great danger of extinction by the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO), i.e. that the percentage of pupils who learn regional languages is totally insufficient to ensure their sustainability. That is why we need to rely on the accelerator and, I would say, also quantitatively, because we cannot be content with a small percentage of the population who learn these languages. I will give you an example: about 8% of an age group in Brittany learns the Breton language using the method of bilingual education. This is good not only for the regional language but also for French, since the results in French of these pupils are higher than the average: this method allows us to develop the learning of these languages in a general way, by giving children mechanisms that enable this development. We therefore have every interest in promoting this kind of education. In the polls conducted in Brittany, 40% of parents would like their children to be enrolled in this type of field. There is therefore a difference between demand and opportunities. The purpose of this bill is precisely to offer these parents a real choice, because it is a choice rather than an obligation. The text that I defend has the ambition to act in favour of the protection and promotion of regional languages, by also facilitating their use in everyday life, civil status acts – you have all heard about the little Fañch, with the ntilde of his name – or signposting in public space. We have had many debates on this and, very often, we have found ourselves sharing these ambitions or objectives. As evidence of this, the Senate has changed the text very little. It adopted by a vote in accordance with the provisions we had voted in the National Assembly and proposed four additional articles on education. It is therefore of these four articles that we are invited to discuss, four articles already voted in the Senate: it is not revolutionary or, then, I do not know what a revolution is. Our work in committee last week once again reflected the deep agreement that exists on the subject. Of the four remaining articles, the Commission validated three and rejected one. I note, moreover, that many Members have tabled amendments aimed at re-establishing the article rejected by the committee: seven of the nine groups in the House propose to do so, which also demonstrates broad agreement among Members on the subject. This agreement reflects the one that exists within society. The thirteen regional presidents expressed support for the bill. As for the associations, they are very dynamic and do not hesitate to ask each other, sometimes even a little too much. However, they do an immense task, day-to-day, locally, defending and promoting the regional languages that make up our heritage. Article 2b authorizes the development of immersive education in the regional language, which exceeds the strict hourly parity of a teaching given half in the regional language and half in French and is, of course, aimed at the mastery of both languages. This last point goes without saying: who could really wish that students did not master French? Such an idea goes beyond understanding. Immersive education in the regional language is not yet possible in public education and remains confined to private schools, which we believe is damaging. I would remind those who raise this argument that the Constitutional Council has never considered that immersive education in the regional language undermines the principle of equality before the law or the principle that French is the language of the Republic. Never! He simply considered it unconstitutional to make such education compulsory – which the text does not provide for – and stressed that such teaching could not have the effect of exempting students from their obligations, including knowledge of the French language. Of course, we share this position. I have reviewed all the decisions of the Constitutional Council: these are the only two limits that it has set. It should also be noted that things are moving forward on the ground with numerous experiments. I am of course thinking of the Basque Country, where nursery classes offer immersive teaching, but also of the Arrels de Perpignan school, which has been operating since the 1990s and proposes an even wider immersion thanks to its associative model. As for the Council of State, it considered not the conformity of a text with regard to the Constitution, but the legality of administrative acts. Its position is clear: it does not consider it appropriate to integrate Diwan associative schools into public education by regulation and considers it preferable to go through the law. That is precisely what we are doing today with this text, which, in my view, does not raise a constitutional problem. Article 2d requires the municipalities to conclude a financial participation agreement with schools under contract of association in which children who wish to attend regional language education are educated. The Senate has here re-established a provision very close to that resulting from the first reading of the bill for a school of trust, substantially amended in the Joint Joint Committee (JC). On two occasions, the Senate adopted this article:...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u37	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u38	...a first time in the bill for a school of trust and a second time, on December 10 last, in this bill. I do not think I am wrong in reminding myself that the Senate is the chamber of communities: if it has taken over the provision, it is probably informed! Finally, Article 3 extends to all regional languages, on the one hand, and to lycées and colleges, on the other hand, the provisions existing today for the Corsican language alone and for nursery and elementary schools only, thus allowing the teaching of the regional language in the framework of a normal school schedule. The aim is to adapt the provision of education to regional languages, territories and social demand within the framework of agreements between the State and local authorities. Thus, the text we are considering today seems to me to be perfectly in line with our ambitions and to ensure that regional languages are protected in a way that is commensurate with the benefits and risks they bring to the national community. That is why I call on you to adopt it without amendment, so as to interrupt the parliamentary shuttle and allow for the full entry into force, as soon as possible, of its provisions, the application of which I believe is necessary and urgent. [[Applause on the banks of the LT and LRgroups and on several banks of the LaREM,Dem,AgirensetUDI-I groups]] The time is historic, for there has never been a law on regional languages in France. By the 1970s, Quebec had adopted a text to defend them and promote French – a much more ambitious text than the bill that I present to you today. We had to wait until 2021 to take this step. Let us hope, ladies and gentlemen, that this law will be promulgated as soon as possible!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u39	In the general debate, Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u40	[[Applause on the banks of the LTgroup and on several banks of the LRand Demgroups]] My father never set foot in a school. My parents have always spoken to me exclusively in the Corsican language. Through this language, they taught me the sense of work, duty and honesty. I later became professor of universities and taught, little or no, economics around the world. My example illustrates a brutal cultural rupture. It also testifies to the fact that the practice of a minority language does not in any way block the social elevator. We know the relationship the state has with its languages. I have never heard a speech in Corsica throughout my studies. For centuries, French has been the only language of diplomas, employment, science and culture. When, in one territory, two languages coexist and one of them is favored to the detriment of the other, it is naturally towards the most powerful that parents turn to because it is about the social promotion and the future of their children. It is for this reason that, over time, the vast majority of Britons, Alsatians, Corsicans and others have not transmitted, or badly, their historical language to their children, well aided in this by a State policy aimed at excluding regional languages from public life and school. [[Bertrand Pancher applauds]] It is very sad, because the mother tongue is one of the foundations of the identity of each of us. It is through language that we build our relationships with others, with the world around us, that we express our first emotions and build ourselves emotionally. This element is "of the same importance as sex, face or name," wrote Montpellieran physician Pierre Boquel. [[MM. Bertrand Pancher,ErwanBalanantandJean-CharlesLarsonneurapplaudent]] This foundation is weakened if another, supposedly more noble, language is imposed on us. From then on, a terrible feeling of self shame appears, for it is not only our language that is devalued, but through it our family, our region and our culture. This conflict between so-called high and so-called low language – what linguists call diglossia – causes a terrible tension in the person concerned. Imposeing a change of language on an individual can cause severe psychological trauma. Pierre Boquel's work clearly shows this. Do you know that in Canada, communities that have lost their language know, on average, six times more suicides than those that still speak it? The same applies to Australian Aboriginals, Canadian Native Americans and New Zealand Maori. In Brittany, bad indicators of morbidity were linked to the sudden loss of linguistic identity. French is indeed our common language: no one asks otherwise. But it must not be exclusive to the other languages of metropolitan France and overseas. French citizenship can be fully expressed in an identity that does not live exclusively in a single language, as it does not live in a unique religion or personal identity. Why would people with different languages, origins and beliefs be constantly called upon to choose one or the other of their identities? Undoubtedly, as Amin Maalouf of the French Academy has beautifully written, "because of these habits of thought and expression so rooted in us all, because of this narrow, exclusive, bigote, simplistic conception that reduces the entire identity to one belonging, proclaimed with rage". Identity is not given once and for all: it is built and transformed throughout existence. In short, it cannot be segmented. It is a whole that one forges his whole life through his multiple experiences. Amin Maalouf corroborates the studies of Dr.Pierre Boquel and neuropsychiatrist Boris Cyrulnik when he notes: "Nothing is more dangerous than trying to break the maternal cord that connects a man to his tongue. When it is broken, or seriously disturbed, it has a disastrous impact on the entire personality. » [[Applause on the benches of the LT, LR and Agiren groups and surplus banks of the LaREM, Dem, UDI-IetSOC groups]] I am not a linguist, nor a neuropsychiatrist, but I am modest in adding that regional languages should be restored to their full place and I affirm that all languages deserve to be saved, because they carry in them an invaluable part of human diversity. Languages are not opposed, are not exclusive, but are added and strengthened. At this moment, the best thing to do here is to adopt the bill that is before us on the initiative of our colleague Mr Paul Molac and the Libertés et Territoires Group. The aim of this text is to enhance the protection, accessibility and visibility of regional languages in three areas: first, that of heritage, by recognizing the belonging of regional languages to France's intangible heritage in order to better protect them, that of public life, and secondly, by securing in law the posting of translations into regional language under public inscriptions and signs, as well as the use of diacritic signs of regional languages in civil status documents. We welcome the fact that the two headings relating to these provisions were adopted without amendment by the Senate, which has been very open. We look forward to the same opening of the National Assembly and its majority regarding the latest articles under discussion on the teaching of regional languages. It would be incomprehensible that a proposal for a law on the protection and promotion of regional languages does not contain any major provision in the field of education. It is essential to recognize in law the possibility of immersive education in the regional language within the public school. Experiments have already been carried out for many years. The immersive method allows a complete mastery of the language and the pupils who benefit from it, according to all the studies, have better results in French than the national average. We therefore do not understand the attitude of the Government, which allows immersion experiments in the public school, but has tabled an amendment to delete the article aimed at securing immersive education in the regional language. Similarly, we do not understand the deletion in committee of the article on the actual taking over by the municipalities of the school package for immersive associations. However, this was a firm commitment made by the Prime Minister in February 2019. In the debate on the bill for a school of trust, you yourself, Mr. Minister of National Education, Youth and Sports, committed yourself to making the provision of this school package truly effective. We therefore call on all our colleagues to re-establish this vital provision to ensure the financial sustainability of the associative schools, two of which are in fact planned in Corsica in my constituency. [[Applause on the banks of the LT group and on several banks of the LaREM, LR, Dem,AgirensetUDI-I groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, the time has finally come to adopt a text on the defence of our regional languages. It would be a first under the Fifth Republic. There is in a language, in its expressions, its turns, its proverbs, its non-saids, its music, a whole universe and a whole conception of life. Let us live up to the challenges, the hopes and the commitment of our associations, our teaching networks and so many volunteers, so that our regional languages, this heritage of humanity, will continue to live for a long time.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u41	Mrs Geraldine Bannier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u42	Yves Duteil, mayor of his state but above all remarkable parolier, made these unforgettable words resonate: "By listening to the people of this country, it seems that the wind has caught up in a harp, and that he has composed a whole symphony. » If the French language is "a beautiful language", it is because it is rich in its history and in its relations with many regional languages. All have the same ancestor but the Indo-European has spread in countless meanderings over time.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u43	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u44	There are no fewer than eighty-two minority or regional languages in the metropolitan and overseas regions: they testify to the richness of our linguistic heritage, which members of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats are committed not only to maintaining but also to promoting. This heritage is thus transmitted with enthusiasm in our regions, and it is now 180 private schools under contract and out of contract that teach in immersive format Breton, Occitan, Basque, Alsatian or Catalan to 15,000 pupils from kindergarten to terminal. Many others also have access to regional language and culture education in private or public institutions. Learning and mastering a language, whatever it may be, is always a valuable asset that makes it easier to move towards other language learning. I know something! In the case of regional languages, it is also a matter of transmitting a fragile memory, that recorded by Ferdinand Brunot, creator in 1911 of the Archives de la parole. In recent years, the State has been attentive to the high level of interest in the issue of their transmission. The reform of the high school establishes a special education devoted to regional languages, and students who wish to do so may compose certain tests of continuous control in the regional language. Finally, the law for a school of trust, known as the Blanquer law, has changed the payment of the communal package. If they do not propose it in their own commune, the municipal councils may participate voluntarily in the financing of the schooling of pupils wishing to attend regional language education outside their municipality of residence. You have also just announced further progress for regional languages, Minister. As you know, our group is very attached, through its DNA, to the defence of regional languages. Recently, François Bayrou said:...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u45	Ah! If François Bayrou says so!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u46	"I want us to know that in France we can speak and transmit French perfectly well, and at the same time speak and transmit perfectly well the languages that are the languages of our cultural heritage. » The bill of our colleague Paul Molac has the merit of recalling...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u47	So here's your consideration for this bill: merit!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u48	...that cultural pluralism, wealth and diversity in our regional languages must be defended. That is why our group has always voted unanimously, both in first reading and in committee, for its adoption. The text contains various articles, one of which, major, on 2 quater, will allow the application of article L. 312-10 of the Education Code to Mayotte. We welcome that. We will also support Article 3, which proposes that regional languages should incorporate, as optional subjects, the framework of the normal teaching schedule. Article 2b would like to include in the law the practice already implemented in the immersive format: in addition to the risk of unconstitutionality, it seems to us that the immersive institutions concerned offer in fact a teaching which is necessarily done in both languages, which corresponds to the law currently in force and to what is desirable for our students. Article 2d is certainly the one that will generate the most debate. While it was deleted in committee by the vote on my amendment, it is important that we can continue our discussions on what is a real difficulty for many of us. The voluntary financial contribution granted by the municipality of residence towards the establishment of the receiving municipality providing education in the regional language would become a compulsory payment. Such a shift would fundamentally change the existing rules and must therefore be seen in the light of local realities, since it could put certain communes, especially the smaller ones, in difficulty.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u49	This is the first time that MODEM has defended small communes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u50	I believe that beyond the legal issues that this article raises, we must pay attention to them. Thus, in the course of the discussions, we will be keen to recall both our deep commitment to regional languages and the importance of adopting measures that are applicable and respectful of our Constitution. Let me end with a short local initiation. At my house in Mayenne, we "clave the door" – it's still shorter than "close the door with a key" ; avoid "babbling" to say nothing or "striking" by shouting too loudly, as Members sometimes do; and rather than tinkering, one "whistles", sometimes observing the "time that absconds." See that we love treasures everywhere with the infinite riches of regional languages, as long as they always lead us to the "harmony" celebrated by Yves Duteil.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u51	These are expressions, this has nothing to do with regional languages!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u52	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u53	Article 75-1 of the Constitution, which since 2008, states that "regional languages belong to the heritage of France", has been a rupture and a promise. By barely forcing the trait, it can be said that many have seen in this recognition a kind of peace treaty, as long as France has had a hard time in its linguistic diversity, which it considered to be more a threat than a wealth. [[Mr Jean-CharlesLarsonneurapplaudit]] Of course, in 1951 there was the Deixonne law on the teaching of local languages and dialects, which allowed the learning of regional languages in public education to facilitate the study of French, but its application was marked by great caution and it took until 2017 for a circular to officially extend it to the regional languages of Alsace and Mayotte. The fact remains that France, the Western European country with the most languages – as has been said – is also one of the last states not to have ratified the European Charter for Regional or Minority Languages: they still do not benefit from the protection but also from the promotion measures provided for in this text. This paradox is probably one of the reasons for the embarrassment that arises when it comes to teaching. The examination of this text, proposed by our colleague Paul Molac, is a new illustration since, while the provisions on the heritage protection of regional languages and their use in signage and civil registration documents are now laid down, the articles which remain to be discussed at second reading relate exclusively to aspects related to the school. Far from the idea of ignoring the progress made in legislation as well as in republican practice, our great linguistic wealth requires a true political ambition. It is now possible to act in an atmosphere all the more calmed by the fact that, as we know, promoting regional languages, their dissemination and teaching does not mean opposing the promotion, dissemination and mastery of French. The overseas countries, where two thirds of the regional languages recorded in France are spoken, are particularly convinced of this. Our colleague Karine Lebon, who would have liked to be with us this morning, wishes to show the road ahead. For example, in La Réunion, where Creole is the mother tongue of 80 per cent of the inhabitants and organizes daily life and modes of thought, exchanges and cultural creations, including Maloya, barely 4 per cent of pupils would be affected by a system that takes into account the language and culture of the meeting. However, linguists, pedagogues and researchers converge towards a school that takes more and more into account the environment of the child, what is called the "already there". A child, a learner, isn't that the magic box where we accumulate knowledge? It's not just that, no! Filled with affections, endowed with a brain structured in neuronal connections, it is built from going back and forth between what it already knows and what it learns, between its near universe and the world. The more you rely on your close universe, the more you open the world to him. It happens that, in our overseas world, the near universe is a hybrid, plurilingual, multicultural fact, and that this is indeed an extraordinary opportunity. In our view, voting in accordance with the draft law on the heritage protection of regional languages and their promotion would be a significant step forward for our country in its report on language and languages. Such a vote would somehow be at the rendezvous of President Macron's statement on 21 June 2018: "Regional languages play their part in the rooting that makes the regions strong. We will persevere in their teaching. This "we," so disclaimed in other circumstances, must take effect through the passage of this bill. [[Applause on banks in the GDR group, on several banks in the LR group and on some banks in the LaReMetDem groups]] I will conclude by saying that he is a Jacobin who speaks to you, not the one whom some like so much to caricature, but the one who, in the pure revolutionary tradition, combines unity and diversity at the same time.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u54	Mrs Stéphanie Atger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u55	"Ia ora na! » Regional languages are a valuable legacy of our heritage. Their protection, recognition and dissemination remain a major element of our national culture. This second reading allows the La République on the move to welcome the initiative of the Libertés et Territoires Group, in particular the tenacity of the rapporteur, Mr Paul Molac,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u56	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u57	... whose bill brings to the attention of the national representation the magnificent diversity of France. Its linguistic heritage concerns all our regions, whether hexagonal or ultramarine. The recognition of regional languages, an integral part of our country's history, was covered by the constitutional revision of 23 July 2008, which officially and rightly incorporated them into the heritage of France. This bill was passed on first reading in February 2020 after demanding debates: its second reading deals with the amendments adopted by the Senate. Senators wanted to make contributions – articles 2 ter, 2 quater and 2 quinquies – and made the choice to re-establish article 3. If we maintain that the draft law has a real added value in the protection of the heritage of regional languages and thus allows us to enshrine the need for their protection throughout the national territory, some of the new provisions submitted to the debate at this second reading call upon us. Article 2b, on immersive education, does not provide for any time-limits between the teaching in the regional language and the teaching in French.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u58	So what?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u59	The notion of "good knowledge of the French language" seems too vague, especially since each network of voluntary schools organizes the teaching of regional languages according to its own modalities and degree of immersion. Starting the teaching of the French language in the EC1, as is sometimes the case, may seem late. We welcome the integration of Article 2 quater, which aims to enable the languages actually practiced in Mayotte, Shimaoré and Kibushi, to incorporate Article L. 312-10 of the Education Code and thus to benefit from the same provisions as all the regional languages, thus being recognized as part of the heritage of France. Article 2d, deleted during the examination in committee, concerns the financial contribution of municipalities to the schooling of children in private schools of the first degree. While amendments to restore it will be submitted to our debates, we recall that it would create a new funding obligation for the municipalities concerned: for these teachings alone, the school package could represent an expenditure of more than EUR 10 million. These provisions appear to be unwarranted and undermine the free administration of the communes, whereas only the French language is subject to compulsory education in France.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u60	They exist for private education!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u61	They go back to the achievements of the financial contribution, particularly in private schools, which are enshrined in our legislation. The re-establishment of Article 3, which lays down the principle that the regional language is a subject taught in the normal teaching schedule, and which can therefore be proposed to all pupils in all territories, calls in its drafting only doubt as to the obligation to introduce such a measure. Regional languages are the product of a historical heritage: they are alive and dynamic. This is evident in Brittany, Corsica, Occitanie and in our ultramarine territories – the latter gather two thirds of the regional languages spoken in France. It is obvious that this subject requires an extension of dialogue and the adaptation of these developments by not questioning what makes nation. Special attention is paid by the Government to the implementation of the above-mentioned reforms.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u62	It is far away the running Republic that wanted to move forward! All of a sudden, you have to take your time!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u63	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Just as during the examination of the text in committee, the La République en marche group wishes to reaffirm its willingness to vote in favour of the bill which recognizes the heritage importance of regional languages and contributes to their vitality in the public space.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u64	It's not very applauded!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u65	Mr Marc Le Fur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u66	[[Applause on the banks of the LR Group. – Mr Jimmy Pahunapplaudited]] What a time to admit a fact: the languages of France are our chance! Our diversity is not a problem, on the contrary, it is an opportunity – linguistic diversity, in particular, which is a fragile as well as precious heritage. These are our languages: Breton, Gallo, Basque, Catalan, Corsican, Alsatian, Flemish, all Creoles, all overseas languages – I am speaking for our colleague Kamardine, who cannot be one of us today. [[Applause on the benches of the LR and LT groups]] Some, because of their origins, are more sensitive than others in this regard. I do. I had the chance to be raised in a house where two languages were spoken, the conversation rolling from one to the other depending on the subjects and the interlocutors. Like all the people of their generation, my parents had learned French at school, but they had perfect control over the concordance of time or the agreement of past participants – they could have gone back to many, including in this Chamber. To adopt such a text is also to do them justice and honour. [[Smile]] Why is this transmission so suspicious that the word "baragouiner" has recently been used in this House by one of your colleagues, Minister? It is a contemptuous word that I believed from another time, created to mock Breton soldiers who were no less French and who, during the two world wars, made considerable sacrifices. It was pronounced by the keeper of the seals, a lawyer of his condition, who, better than others, knows the meaning and weight of the words. He apologized – to every sinner mercy! I know, minister, that you never fall into this type of caricature and that you are intellectually shared on these matters. We must be able to denounce this excess of Jacobinism – for my part, I am not at all Jacobin, dear colleague Wulfranc – who has done so much harm to our country and who has for too long despised regional languages and cultures. It was necessary to combat this contempt and, even more difficult, ignorance. Over the years, we have made progress, particularly during the 2008 constitutional review, thanks to Article 75-1: "Regional languages belong to the heritage of France. At the time, I had led this fight. We had to fight. I have always regretted that there was no unanimity on the subject: the left, for political reasons, had not wanted to vote, with some prestigious exceptions, since Jack Lang had voted with us on that occasion. It was the first floor of the rocket, but, by definition, it needs more. Personally, I remain convinced that we will one day have to ratify the European Charter for Regional or Minority Languages, currently in force in 25 countries. It is applied in Turkey but not in France. Look for the mistake! We are still waiting for a great law to resolve the remaining problems. I am thinking in particular of the tilde, a very sensitive subject since families cannot choose and spell the first name of their child as they wish – this is the case of the parents of the little Fañch in Brittany. Let us respect the choice of families, to which we, for our part, are very attached. Today, the main subject is transmission. Considering that this text is an opportunity for all the languages of metropolis and overseas, we believe that the Senate version should be adopted, not that of the committee. It is expected in Alsace, Brittany, by all public and private associations. I am thinking of Diwan, but also of the Association for Bilingualism in Classroom from Kindergarten (ABCM) that I had the chance to visit in Haguenau, thanks to our friend Philippe Meyer. They do a great job, you have to honor them. I regret that the committee has adopted an amendment from the Dem Group...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u67	This is not an amendment by the Dem Group: it is an amendment by Mrs Bannier!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u68	... which tarnishes this text and reduces it too appreciably. The Republicans, on the other hand, supported this text from its first reading here, and then in the Senate where we are the majority. It did so because it is in line with the constitutional review that we wanted and adopted in 2008. We therefore have no ambiguity on these issues. [[Applause on LR group banking, on several banks of the Agiren, LIT and UDI-I groups and on some banks of the LaREM group]] For once we are speaking and many of us are speaking regional languages, let us have time to debate. Let us not treat this as a formality before moving on to other agenda items. Let us treat it as a subject of substance and importance. Long live our fragile and beautiful regional languages at once! We have to defend them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u69	Mr Christophe Euzet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u70	First of all, I would like to thank Paul Molac, our rapporteur, for allowing us to embrace a subject dear to the French. Before we turn to the precise provisions of this text, let us say a word about the legitimacy of the case being defended. The world has changed a lot. He understood that he was not condemned to a form of triumphant and universal English and that the regional languages of a country were not irreversibly promised to disappear, for human beings needed to know where they were from, to which territories they attached themselves and what their deep identity was. In this regard, the struggle for the maintenance of regional languages and cultures appears to be entirely legitimate, far from the folkloric vision it has had in the past decades. As I said in committee, my own perception of the subject has changed a lot over the last two decades. Is it possible to translate this cause into reality? Polyglots have an intellectual wealth that is acquired not only through traditional courses but also in an immersive way, when various knowledge is taught in the regional language concerned. In the Working Together Group, we are a very large majority who believe that bilingual or even trilingual training – in order to take account of the international dimension – can validly be taken over by national education. It should be noted that this cause is in no way a fight against the nation and the national language, which would be seen as an adversary. On the contrary, languages must embrace a common cause: bilingualism must be seen as progress and not as the return to a fantasy past. I come to the precise provisions of this text, which we are generally very much in favour of. We believe that Paul Molac's bill is useful in the protection and promotion of regional languages, in particular through his proposals on the deployment of their immersive teaching in the public sector. We agree with the successive contributions of the Senate and the Commission: the recognition of regional languages as intangible cultural heritage; the principle of public intervention to ensure their protection; the provisions on bilingual signage and the recognition of diacritical signs by the civil administration; the application of the common law to Mayotte. We still have three points to make. With regard to Article 2d, we are in favour of an agreement between the municipality of residence of the child and the host institution. However, a majority of us have expressed their concern about the compulsory nature of the care provided by the municipality, which cannot provide education in the regional language in its territory. We do not have any difficulties with the provisions of Article 3, but we have proposed an amendment to make it clear that it is optional. With regard to Article 2b, I would like to point out that we support the principle of immersive education. However, it seems to us that, in the absence of a limit, education may be fully provided in the regional language, to the detriment of children who no longer attend French-language education during the time limit provided for in the Education Code. We will therefore propose an amendment to ensure that those who choose immersive education have a good command of the French language. To these three reserves,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u71	That's a lot of reserves!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u72	[[Applause on the benches of the Agir ens group and on several benches of the LT group]] ... the Action Together group will vote in favour of the bill very much.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u73	Mrs Claudia Rouaux has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u74	As Michel Serres so well said: "Languages are a treasure and convey something other than words. Regional languages are both a historical and a living heritage, which it is essential to preserve and transmit to the younger generations. In its construction as a unitary state and a nation, however, France has long worked to reduce their place and use to the benefit of the French language. How many schoolchildren were punished or humiliated because they spoke in their mother tongue? In 1911 Jean Jaurès was already defending the learning of regional languages: "Since these children speak two languages, why not teach them to compare them and realize each other? [...] It would be an education of strength and flexibility for young minds; It would also be an open road, a widening of the historical horizon. » Regional languages are also the heartbeat of regional cultures and identities, sources of wealth and diversity for the French Republic, which unites us. It was not until the 2008 constitutional review that they received legitimate recognition. Article 75-1 of our Constitution states that they "belong to the heritage of France". However, France has still not ratified the European Charter for Regional or Minority Languages, although it was signed on 7 May 1999. This is all the more regrettable because a large majority of them, according to UNESCO, are in danger of extinction. The promotion and protection of regional languages must therefore be strengthened and deepened. That is the meaning of the bill that we are considering today. In this regard, I would like to warmly thank my Breton colleague, Paul Molac, for his tenacity and commitment. This text is part of the continuation of initiatives of socialist colleagues: the draft law adopted in January 2017, whose rapporteur was Annie Le Houerou, and the bill defended by Roland Courteau, aimed at the installation of entrance and exit signs from agglomeration in the regional language.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u75	It's true that we needed at least one law for that!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u76	This bill promotes the recognition of regional languages in three directions. First, it enshrines their recognition in the Heritage Code, as part of the intangible heritage and national treasures, with the possibility of using regional languages in public and private spheres. Secondly, it aims to anchor their recognition in public space and life by allowing the translation into regional language of inscriptions and signs on public roads, transport infrastructures and institutional communication media, which will endorse an already common practice in Brittany, Corsica or Occitanie. In addition, it intends to legally secure the use of diacritical signs in civil-state acts – including the tilde – which will make it possible to close the jurisprudential series that has marked many minds in Brittany, with the case related to the first name Fañch. Thirdly, the text tends to reinforce the recognition of regional languages in education, which is all the more important as the family transmission of one of these languages is increasingly rare. There is also a consensus that learning a regional language does not lead to a lesser degree of proficiency in French, on the contrary. Whether teaching is initiative, joint or immersive, it is an asset to promote multilingualism. The text includes major provisions in this area, such as the possibility of providing immersion education in the public school, in the regions and communities concerned, in the same way as the Diwan schools in Brittany. However, there is still a problem with the provision of tuition fees. On this point, the Socialist and Related Group has tabled an amendment to reinstate the school package, deleted in committee. Beyond that, I would like to draw your attention to the issue of teacher training, as it is necessary to find bilingual teaching skills. [[Applause on the banks of the SOC group and on several banks of the LaREM,Agirens,LTandUDI-I groups]] Because the protection of regional languages is a requirement, our group will vote in favour of this bill, with the hope that its compliant vote by the House will allow for the earliest possible entry into force. "Trug! Thank you very much! "Thank you. " »
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u77	Mr Bastien Lachaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u78	Multilingualism is a wealth. The diversity of the languages spoken and the cultures they call it is a wealth. The protection of linguistic diversity must be part of public policies and language teaching in public education should be developed. Students in our schools must have access to various language teachings, so that they have the choice. But from primary school to university, linguistic diversity is threatened by an all-English policy. On the contrary, the diversity of language teaching must be protected. A plurality of modern languages must be offered to pupils. Similarly, the teaching of ancient languages, Latin and ancient Greek, should be encouraged instead of being increasingly reduced. Among these languages offered by public education, the regional languages of hexagon and overseas, yes, but many more are needed. In order to do this, there is a need to open up places for the public service competitions for language teaching. However, this bill, under the guise of the necessary protection of linguistic diversity, seeks in reality to impose the learning of regional languages, to the detriment of others.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u79	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u80	[[Continuous protests on the benches of the LR group]] [[Continuous exclamations on the benches of the LR group]] It seeks to limit the ability of students to choose to learn a language, which will no longer be decided according to their tastes, their personal aspirations, but will have to do so according to their region of origin. It seeks to bring about the learning of regional languages and to have private schools financed by public money on the pretext of teaching these languages. That is not acceptable. And those who oppose it are immediately repainted as defenders of linguistic diversity, as thurifers of strict monolingualism, as assassins of regional cultures. That's not the case. [[Continuous exclamations on the benches of the LR group]] We want a public education of a plurality of languages, the choice of which would not be imposed but would go to the pupil and his family. Thus, we oppose the article which would like to impose by regional convention the learning of regional languages on pupils. Indeed, school time is not extensible. This would necessarily be at the expense of other modern or old languages that would no longer be proposed. These teachings must of course exist, but remain optional as options. A young person who would be passionate about manga and would like to deepen his knowledge of Japanese culture should be able to choose Japanese. We must not impose a regional language on him instead. A young person who would like to reconnect with a language of origin of his family, Italian, Portuguese, Spanish, German, Polish, Chinese, Arabic, Greek, among others,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u81	The socialist international still has good days ahead of her! Trotskyist!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u82	... should be able to choose it as an optional option without the imposition of a regional language instead. Freedom is in plurilingualism, not in the imposition of a specific, even regional, language. The text also proposed – the provision has been deleted in committee but the rapporteur wants to go back – the extension of the law to guarantee parity of funding between public and private elementary schools under contract of association when they receive pupils in schools outside their municipality of residence, known as the Carle Act, which would impose on municipalities the financing of private schools offering education in the regional language. At present, it is possible but depends on the deliberation of the municipality. So we'd like to impose it on them. I do not agree that their students should be stripped of public schools in our villages or that the municipalities should be forced to finance private schools. Public money has to go to public school. Finally, the proposed law provides for the possibility of teaching mainly in the regional language in public schools where French-language education would therefore be a minority. I don't agree.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u83	You should have listened to what Mrs. Panot said yesterday!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u84	Bilingual education in the regional language is possible at the public school, but there is no question of erasing the learning of French. Article 2b states that the main learning of a regional language would be "without prejudice to the objective of a good knowledge of the French language", which is, you will recognize, particularly vague. French is not a "dominant language", as the editors say, it is the common language of the Republic. However, the proposed provision is contrary to the Constitution,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u85	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u86	...what the Constitutional Council pointed out in 2011: "...the use of a language other than French cannot be imposed on pupils in public educational institutions either in the life of the institution or in the teaching of subjects other than those of the language in question. There can therefore be no question of imposing the learning of a regional language on the public school in place of the teachings of French and French. [[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] To defend plurilingualism is also to defend the Francophonie. And defending the Francophonie means actively promoting plurilingualism in the face of the hegemony of English. It is to refuse the French identity card with registrations in English. It is to defend plurilingualism at university, the opposite of what the Government is doing to impose certifications in English by for-profit organizations for obtaining degrees, in a purely utilitarian approach. Promoting the Francophonie and showing that French is an international language, which we share with millions of speakers around the world, can only be done by teaching our children a plurality of languages, including regional languages, but not just them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u87	Mr Thierry Benoit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u88	[[Applause on the banks of the UDI-I, LR, and LTgroups' banksLaREMetDem]] I am pleased to speak on behalf of the IDU Group on such a valuable subject as regional languages. What's this about? For me and for a number of our colleagues here, it is about protecting, preserving and transmitting what is part of our national heritage, our regional heritage, especially our moral and intangible heritage. And I am pleased, dear Paul Molac, that this bill could have been passed at first reading by the House, then by the Senate, and, as I say clearly on behalf of our group, I hope that we will vote in accordance with it. [[Applause on the banks of the UDI-I and Agiren groups]] As we have been reminded, UNESCO tells us: regional languages, particularly in France, are in danger of extinction. Mr. Minister of National Education, Youth and Sports, French is the language of the nation: it is normal and the text does not call it into question. Regional languages are, I would say, the languages of our roots, of the earth. You are certainly one of the members of the Government whose work I am most attentive to, and I hold you in high esteem, because you are raising the idea of national education very high. I hope that this debate will help to make you more open and to allow you to reconcile, because it is your responsibility, cohesion of the nation and regional identity. Under no circumstances would advancing the cause of regional languages – at least if we do this morning – be in opposition to the national cohesion that the country so much needs. What do you want, Minister? I am a Member of Parliament for the French nation, but I feel Breton, that's how it is: I was born at the steps of Brittany, at Fougères, and I am very proud of it. We, the Bretons, are a bit like Corsicans: we have a form of distrust of Paris, towards the central power, which we sometimes call Jacobin power. However, as deputies of the nation, we always embody this will of republican unity and respect it: it is indispensable. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-I group and on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] I hope that we will re-establish section 2d, which has been inadvertently removed, or mistakenly removed, in committee, and that you, minister, open yourselves to this prospect. What's this about? Agreement between the municipality of residence of the child and the school in which the child lives. This agreement, the legislator can give the general framework, as is the case for private schools under contract of association: it would then be up to you, minister, to specify, by decree, the application of this provision. [[Applause on the benches of the IDU-I group]] I would like to remind the previous speaker that we must not confuse regional and foreign languages: to teach Breton, Corsican or Basque is not to teach English, German or Japanese. [[Applause on the banks of the UDI-I group and on several banks in theLT group]] Jean-Louis Borloo's UDI wanted to be a party open to the world and a European party. Those of us who are in favour of European integration know that regional languages are a valuable asset. I will conclude by saying that, at the IDU of Jean-Louis Borloo, we have France as our homeland, Europe as a frontier, the world as a horizon and regional languages as jewels.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u89	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u90	We are considering, at second reading, the proposal for a law on the heritage protection and promotion of regional languages, a text adopted at first reading by the Assembly on February 13, 2020, and then by the Senate on December 10. The Senate has maintained all the provisions that we have voted on and has added four articles on education, important articles that I personally will support. I am not the only one because, in addition to many parliamentarians, it is the associations which, on the ground, in our regions, have been waiting for this text for a long time and are now asking us to vote on it. Let us say it from the outset: these languages are part of our heritage, our culture and are, in a way, part of our identity. However, for our historical languages, already considered by UNESCO to be vulnerable, in danger, or in serious danger for several years, the risk of disappearance is real. In your recent reform of the baccalaureate, Minister, you have unfortunately made the teaching of regional languages less attractive.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u91	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u92	Mechanical result: the number of people learning these languages is decreasing everywhere, according to the choices made. For example, in many high schools some courses are closed, and in several academies it is the massive decrease in enrolment. Through your reform, you even decided that from now on, the three hours of weekly instruction for Breton in secondary school should be calculated by level and not by class – in plain terms, a distribution of hours detrimental to the student. A strong mobilization was needed for you to agree to reconsider this measure. Today, an opportunity is open to us: by voting this text, show, even prove our attachment to our regional languages, which, even if threatened, are not moribund. On the contrary! Moreover, the series of provisions added by the Senate is intended to encourage the learning of regional languages at school. "The more threatened these languages are, the more defended they are," said the President of the Permanent Congress of the Occitan Language (CPLO), "but they will not be saved without significant progress in their teaching," he adds. Among the defenders of regional languages, the Occitans took their part, by putting in place a genuine plan to safeguard – if not rescue – their language. The least we can say is that it pays: Béziers has no fewer than three Occitan schools – helped by the city, I point out. Every year, these establishments organize carnival in our streets – all of which are indicated in both languages. There are also 1988 students, 24 schools, 2 colleges and 1 Occitan high school in Languedoc-Roussillon, and no less than 3,937 students, 64 schools, 4 colleges and 1 high school throughout the Occitan area. So the craze is tangible. It is up to us to encourage it. I will conclude with a special mention for the International Centre for Occitan Research and Documentation (CIRDOC), which we are hosting in Béziers. Known up to Japan, it offers a rich collection of more than 150,000 documents bearing witness to 1000 years of occitane creation, the beautiful culture at the origin of troubadours. We put this culture to the credit of Béziers. We are proud of this, and the Occitan has its full place in each of the manifestations that trace the history of our city. I had tabled an amendment to draw up an action plan to strengthen the missions and resources of the General Delegation for the French Language and the Languages of France (DGLFLF) to enable it to become a true coordinator of language development in France. Unfortunately, it has been found inadmissible – it is a pity. This bill falls to the fore, because regional languages are an integral part of our French identity, of the carnal relationship we have with our regions and our lands, of this additional soul that can only participate in reconciliation, not to say communion, of a fractured country. As at first reading, I cannot and obviously do not want to finish my speech without saying the three words which rhythm each of the highlights of our city's life: "Aqui, aquiesBesiers! »
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u93	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u94	I now call, in the text of the committee, the articles of the bill on which the two assemblies were unable to arrive at an identical text. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] It has not escaped anyone, ladies and gentlemen, that our programme of work of the day is, to say the least, dense. I shall therefore strictly apply our Rules of Procedure, which provide that statements shall not last more than two minutes and that no more than two speakers shall speak after the opinions of the Committee and the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u95	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 88, which is additional before Rule 2b.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u96	In the title of Title I, the word "safeguard" should be replaced by the word "protection". Why? Because a threatened regional language is a whole culture in danger. It is therefore necessary not only to protect regional languages, but also to safeguard them. This polysemic term seems to me to have the advantage of reconciling the notions of protection and preservation, thus offering a guarantee that binds France as a whole. So I think it's more appropriate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u97	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u98	Request for withdrawal. In my view, several amendments are intended to amend the text by replacing certain words with synonyms. In this case, the words "protection" and "protection" refer to the same thing. With the objective of adopting a text that is consistent with the one forwarded by the Senate, I will issue unfavorable opinions on such amendments. I would ask our colleagues to concentrate on the most important amendments, namely those relating to immersion and school leavers, because it is on these issues that we must conduct a substantive debate, not on certain proposals which seem to be more likely to prolong the debate. It's already 10:30. Let's try to get to the bottom of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u99	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u100	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u101	Mr Julien Aubert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u102	As our exchanges begin, I would not like us to avoid a debate on regional languages on the pretext that other texts need to be discussed today. There are no amendments, Mr Molac, that would be better than the others. If you want to adopt a "TGV" approach by asking us to go fast because we have to vote in any case a text that is consistent with that of the Senate, tell us: we will not waste time and we will not even discuss it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u103	We're on second reading!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u104	I stress this because, from the outside, such an attitude could give the impression that regional languages are not an important issue. In addition, Mrs Ménard's proposal deserves to be discussed, since, in fact, safeguarding it means saving life. We are currently facing a need for protection rather than protection: whole sections of our local traditions, including regional languages, are disappearing due to the lack of speakers. Beyond the formal argument, this is therefore a fundamental problem. We will indeed be able to make an effort of speed in the continuation of the discussion, because I know that some are looking forward to the important text which needs to be examined afterwards, but do not give the impression that we are prepared to adopt a draft so that we can do a masterpiece more quickly earlier.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u105	Don't worry, Mr Aubert: we won't save the debate, we won't save on compliance with our Rules of Procedure. Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u106	Although I fully agree with our colleague, Mr.Aubert, I am also appreciative of our rapporteur's request for a vote that is consistent with that of the Senate. I therefore withdraw my amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u107	Mr François Ruffin, who is on the agenda, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u108	After listening a lot to the Bretons and Corsicans,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u109	And the Picards!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u110	...I want us to hear also the voice of the Picards, whose language is even more threatened in its existence than Breton or Corsican. It is clear that different sensitivities can be expressed in political groups on these issues. For my part, I believe that if, in the same way as one might think that the wolf was a threat to man when it proliferated in the countryside, the Republic could feel threatened when languages and various patois were growing, the challenge now is to know how to maintain linguistic biodiversity at risk.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u111	All right! Too bad your group has chosen Mr Lachaud as speaker for the general discussion!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u112	In my view, the main threat to the French language is very clearly English, not Picard, Corsican or Breton.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u113	Or Alsatian!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u114	In my region, we know how much it is necessary to fight, not for 50 per cent of the teaching to be done as a picard, but simply to ensure that this language is maintained at university and in a few other places. It seems to me important to preserve this diversity.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u115	Mr Yannick Kerlogot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u116	[[Mr YannickKergolotpronounced somewordsenbreton]] The time has come, ladies and gentlemen, to overcome fears. Many of us call for a vote that is consistent with that of the Senate. I am convinced that we are about to make a decision that could prove historic, by including immersion as a third method of teaching in the education code, as the Senate invites us to do. Let us remember that the stakes are cultural diversity: it is a question of giving us new means of ensuring this diversity, recognizing immersion as an effective method and leaving it out of the experimental regime to which it has been subject for decades. We must move forward and affirm that under no circumstances will the mastery of the French language be undermined, quite the contrary.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u117	Of course not!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u118	[[Applause on several groups' banksLaREM,LR,Dem,Agirens,UDI-I andLT]] The results at the baccalaureate level in schools teaching regional languages are convincing, and even excellent. It would be a mistake to confine the immersive method to kindergarten alone. Of course, this is where the regional language is used as a priority. However, a longer-term analysis, up to the end, shows, once again, positive results: success is real. The only limits set by the Constitutional Council, in essence, are not to make such education compulsory and to ensure that the mastery of the French language is not undermined. [[Applause on the benches of the groups LaREM, LR, Dem, Agir ens, UDI-I and LT]] In light of these two arguments, I would ask you to adopt a text that is consistent with the Senate's proposal, by including the immersive method in the Education Code.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u119	Mr Frédéric Reiss has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u120	We will address the core of this bill in a few moments. After attending the express examination of the amendments in committee, I came out with the bitter impression that hops and malt were lost – "Hopfe un Màlz sin' verlore", as is said in Alsatian. During the examination of the text pursuant to Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the majority gave an opinion in favour of the amendment to delete Rule 2b, the adoption of which would deprive the Senate of its substance. However, by supplementing Article L. 312-10 of the Education Code, in order to introduce the possibility of a third form of teaching regional languages, i.e. immersive teaching, this article constitutes progress, which the Commission had initially recognised by adopting it. I call on all my colleagues to vote against the Government's abolition amendment and then to re-establish Article 2d, which clarifies the funding between the municipality of residence and the municipality where the school where instruction is given in the regional language is located. In this way, we would adopt a text consistent with the one voted by the Senate and take a historic step in the teaching of regional languages. Otherwise, we would find ourselves in the same situation as in November 2016, when, at the end of the quinquennium, a proposal for a law by the Socialist, Environmental and Republican Group aimed at enabling the ratification of the European Charter for Regional and Minority Languages had been sent back to the Greek calendia. Dear rapporteur, history must not be repeated!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u121	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u122	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u123	During the current legislature, the regional languages have already been significantly eroded by the new baccalaureate and the obligation to choose specialties and options in the first and final classes: the LLCER license – foreign and regional languages, literature and civilizations – does not have the wind in stern! Minister, you say you want to support regional languages, but your actions do not follow your words.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u124	They're lying!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u125	[[Vif applause on the benches of the LR group]] That is why I call on all lovers of regional languages to vote against the Government's abolition amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u126	Mr Vincent Bru has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u127	I want to testify to the practice in the Basque country, where 41% of first-degree students are taught Basque and Basque, either in the bilingual system or in the immersive system, thanks to the means made available to the Ministry of Education – 3700 children are taught in immersion. This is the case, of course, for the ikastolas, but also for the public schools – more than 500 kindergarten students are involved – and for the Catholic schools under contract. Why does immersion seem essential to us? Because there's no family transmission of Euskara. It is therefore up to national education to make up for this absence and to ensure that we can train speakers, long-term and serious: only immersion, it seems to us, can allow a young person to become a speaker and, later, to transmit a regional language.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u128	That's not what Mrs. Bannier said!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u129	[[Applause on several benches of the Dem group]] That is why we are very much in favour of the adoption of Article 2b. We believe that immersion, in addition to the fact that it is never imposed, does not exempt the students concerned from the rights and obligations that apply to all French schoolchildren. That is why, minister, if you are right when you say that immersive teaching must remain the exception, you must strengthen it and not leave it in the experimental state.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u130	I have before me five identical amendments, Nos 305, 151, 239, 249 and 294, which delete Article 2b. On these amendments, the Republicans, UDI and Independents and Libertés et territoires have submitted a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. The Minister has the floor to support Amendment No. 305.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u131	First of all, I will return to the essentials, without repeating what I said in my introductory speech. What are our objectives? The first, let me remind you, is that all children go to school. Our second objective – which echoes the comments I made yesterday in the Senate on the bill that reinforces respect for the principles of the Republic – is that school, regardless of the mode of schooling, is a republican crucible. This includes the ability to speak the same language. Speaking French is not only, as some claim, a duty, it is also a right, that of being integrated into French society. As Republicans, we must defend the right of every child to start his or her life by mastering the language of our country, French. I should like to stress this because I mentioned the need for a balance from the beginning of our discussions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u132	It's not up to you to judge!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u133	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] Each of us is part of an intellectual, ideological or political lineage. Thus, your name is The Republicans: the idea that the language of the Republic is French should probably not be regarded as negligible or likely to give rise to vocifers.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u134	This is not negligible but does not allow you to impose an obligation that is valid from birth!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u135	Article 2 of the Constitution is very clear, as is Article 75. I have a balanced speech: that is why I will never accept – I am never saying – to be presented, in a caricatural way, as someone who opposes regional languages. The debate cannot take place in this area, since we want to strengthen the regional languages. I also congratulated Mr Molac on the initiatives he has taken in this direction. The debate that is before us is therefore not about why, but about how. On the other hand, it implies maintaining a balance. If you consider that, as Minister of National Education, I should neglect the stakes involved in the mastery of French by all the children of France, I leave you to that opinion. But this is an extremely serious issue. [[Long exclamations on the benches of the LR group]] As I invited you earlier, so put yourself in the place of a child whose family does not speak French and who goes to a school where the language spoken exclusively is not French. What will be the future of this child?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u136	That's lamentable! It's totalitarianism!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u137	[[Protests on the benches of the LR group]] If, whenever one enters into the concrete, you answer that these are exceptional cases, then it is not worth adopting postures on separatism. Let's be consistent.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u138	Forgive me, minister, but I have to intervene. Mr Schellenberger, since the beginning of the sitting, you have been particularly agitated. I will show indulgence because we are still at an early hour but I will ask you to be much more calm and respectful of the words of others, otherwise I will have to make a call to order. That applies to all your colleagues. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Only the minister, who introduces his amendment, has the floor. We cannot tolerate such an attitude all day long. The dignity – which will be discussed in connection with another discussion planned today – must at least prevail in our debates.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u139	I repeat my remarks by making the wish not to be interrupted as I was. I want, firstly, all the children of France to go to school, secondly, to speak French – these wishes are quite simple and have nothing scandalous – and, thirdly, to be able to learn regional languages. It seems to me that we can agree on these three principles, which are not contradictory. That is what I said in my introductory statement, and that is the meaning of my proposals. I respect the position of Mr Molac and support the regional languages. The whole of my personal and professional life bears witness to this. I have acted in favour of regional languages much more than some Members who are holding inflamed speeches here. I am moved as much as you are when I see that a language is threatened with disappearance and I think that in this case it must be strengthened. I fully agree with Mr Ruffin that there is a problem of language biodiversity. Again, the question is how, certainly not why. We all want to promote regional languages on all the benches. No one will vote against these languages, and certainly not me. Therefore, do not be masculine in claiming that the proposal we make would be unfavourable to the regional languages. I respect MP Molac and understand his positions. But you must also understand that the Minister of National Education must ensure that, in the territory of the Republic, all children of France have not only the duty but also the right to learn French. Does Article 2b meet this requirement? It is true that we must start by looking at the situation under the Constitution and the law. One Member of Parliament stated that the Council of State did not refer to the Constitution. That's not true. In the visas of his famous 2002 judgment, he mentioned article 2 of the Constitution, which is quite normal, since he was then charged with examining a measure of the Ministry of National Education of the time, aimed at launching, through various methods, the generalization of immersive teaching. The Ministry had been told that such a measure was contrary to the principle that children must learn French in accordance with article 2 of the Constitution. The aim today is certainly not to limit regional languages. In this regard, I want to repeat what I said in the presentation of this debate: since 2017, the number of students learning a regional language has increased. We have therefore made progress on this issue, and any caricature is useless. We must, however, be aware of the effect that the measures we are talking about today will have on the future. Of course, they will have no consequences in one, two or three years, but think of what could happen in ten, forty or fifty years.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u140	That's the point!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u141	When we make such decisions, we must also have a geopolitical vision of today's Europe. You are right to talk about the historical dimension of such a bill. I do not want to be the one who has played a historic role in sowing, in France, the seed of a change that has already had quite negative consequences in other European countries.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u142	Regional languages are therefore harmful!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u143	The balanced position which I call for is in the direction of promoting regional languages. I hope that Paul Molac's bill will be passed – I am quite happy to say it today in the National Assembly as I did in the Senate – but not in the present terms, because I believe that it goes too far with immersive teaching, an issue that must be taken very seriously. That is the meaning of this deletion amendment, which does not prevent certain practices which do not pose any problems to me – in my speech presenting the text, I paid tribute to Diwan. I also ask that equity in the use of public funds be ensured: Mr. Lachaud was quite right to draw our attention to the matter. I will not go so far as to totally refuse to pay public money to these institutions – because we distribute them – but we must not do so disproportionately. It is not desirable that, thanks to public money, the rate of supervision should be much more favourable in private schools than in public schools. Ensuring equity in the Territory is an issue that is also the responsibility of the Ministry of National Education. Beyond the societal issue, this debate is therefore also a social issue. On the one hand, a child whose family does not speak French at home – he usually comes from a disadvantaged environment – could not go to such an institution.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u144	It's caricatural! So those who speak regional languages would be disadvantaged people? What a contempt!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u145	On the other hand, the distribution of resources could be unfavourable to public education. I'm sorry, but I have to act as a guarantor in preventing these risks. I am certainly not opposed to regional languages. We will continue to act in their favour and even allow this law to succeed in terms that are satisfactory. However, we must do so by respecting the right of every child in France to go to school and learn French.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u146	I call Mr Bastien Lachaud to support Amendment No. 151.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u147	It's the connivance between LaREM and FI!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u148	There are some debates that give rise to epidermal reactions, as is the case with regional languages. As long as we do not agree 100% with you, we are the bad guys who want to destroy the regional languages. Stop it! As much as you are, when you have been in power, you have voted for declining national education budgets, reduced the resources devoted to education and reduced the number of teachers and therefore recruitments to the language CAPES, including regional ones. Therefore, when you announce the introduction of immersion education without giving it the means to national education, it is still pipeau. It would be better to increase recruitment to CAPES or the aggregation of regional languages to allow for the opening of more options in colleges and high schools. That would really be helpful: you would really defend regional languages and we would be with you to vote for this budget increase. But that's not what you're proposing. This text provides for immersion, whereas bilingualism already exists. Instead, let us increase the means for bilingualism and wait to see the effects produced before immediately opting for immersion education, which is also contrary to the Constitution. In fact, the challenge of this bill is to strengthen the Carle Act by increasing public funding for private institutions, not to defend regional languages. It would be a lie to say otherwise.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u149	I call Mr Sylvain Maillard to support Amendment No. 239.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u150	The amendment to delete Article 2b was fully defended by the Minister. This article directly contradicts article 2 of the Constitution, which states that French is the language of the Republic. [[Protests on the benches of the LR group]] I have the chance to practice several languages, however, but I believe that such a measure would help to weaken the learning of French in the school of the Republic, which plays a key role in terms of republican promise and equal opportunities.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u151	This has nothing to do with it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u152	Mrs Aurore Bergé has the floor to support Amendment No. 249.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u153	There is no question here of opposing the learning and mastery of the French language to the possibility, which must exist, of giving life, as Mr Kerlogot said, to the biodiversity of our regional languages. Our majority has worked hard to strengthen the learning of regional languages. However, Article 2b, as it has been written, provides that such teaching must be "without prejudice to the objective of a good knowledge of the French language". While our children must have the opportunity to learn regional languages, they deserve better than a "good knowledge of the French language". It is necessary that every child in our country acquire, from an early age, the mastery of our language, because it is for him the best factor of inclusion in the Republic and of emancipation. This morning, together with the minister, we affirm simple principles: school is good for children, learning the French language is a necessity for them, as well as a guarantee of inclusion in the Republic and of emancipation. That is why I support the deletion of this article, not because I would oppose the learning of regional languages but to ensure that it is without prejudice to the requirement to master the French language.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u154	Mrs Geraldine Bannier has the floor to support Amendment No. 294.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u155	[["Oh! » on several benches of the LR group]] I hear many comments wrongly and through, but I would like to thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for letting me speak because I like the debates to remain worthy. In my speech in the general discussion, I recalled that in France, in 180 institutions, the learning of regional languages is carried out in accordance with the method of immersive teaching. These schools exist, they are dynamic, my colleague Bru has recalled that 3700 pupils learn the Basque language in this way. I, who taught French, recall that, in an immersive school, a pupil learns the regional language until the third grade and that he is then necessarily taught French. As long as we teach two languages – the regional language and French – we can talk about bilingualism. This therefore corresponds to what is already provided for in article L. 312-10 of the Education Code, which provides that the second form in which the teaching of a regional language is possible is "bilingual instruction in the French and regional languages". It is simply for this reason that I will not vote for the inclusion of a reference to immersive education in Article 2b. In my view, education in both languages must be guaranteed at primary school.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u156	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u157	[[Applause on the banks of the LR and LT groups and on several banks of the LaREM, Dem,AgirensetUDI-I groups]] We are talking about an optional education that remains in the hands of parents and teachers. Of course, there is no question of compulsory education. A parent who does not wish his or her children to follow this type of course will never be obliged to enrol in it. On the other hand, if he so wishes, he will make this choice knowingly, being advised by bilingual teachers who are pedagogues but also specialists in language teaching. It is therefore appropriate to put things down again. As far as immersive education is concerned, I have already explained that the Constitutional Council has held, on the one hand, that it should not be compulsory and, on the other hand, that the children concerned must have a good level of French, which refers to the common basis. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Are these two requirements met by associative schools where this method is practised in its most advanced form? Yes. The level of French is above average. I can't say better! So why worry? In the Basque country, an experiment has been carried out to offer 100 per cent Basque education in nursery schools. However, it was found that when these children arrived in CP, their level of French was above the department's average. This proves that the level of French had not been affected at all.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u158	[[Applause on the benches of the LT group]] The minister told me that these families belong to the higher socio-occupational categories, the CSPs "more", but he is not the first: when I called the Public Office for the Basque language to know whether it was this category that chose Basque education, I was told that it was the opposite, that the CSPs more wanted English in immersion and that they were not too interested in Basque.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u159	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u160	It is the people of the vintage, the less favoured environments, who choose this language for their children, and they have a better level of French than the others. So let's not be afraid. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM, SOC and LT groups]] And then, for those who would still be afraid, I would remind you that the limits to immersion will be set by the Minister of National Education with the personnel responsible for applying them – the pedagogical advisers, the inspectors of academies- regional educational inspectors and of course the teachers – but also with the parents and elected representatives concerned, as in the Basque Country. The immersive method for public education remains to be defined. Of course, there is no question here of imposing a model on national education. This article only indicates, minister, that you can do more than a 50% immersion of school time as you have decided at the moment, one thing is, and it will remain to determine the limits. I will conclude by recalling the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Council on this matter, which is not well-fed but clear: there is no obligation of immersion for teachers or children.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u161	Ladies and gentlemen, in accordance with my strict interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, which I have indicated to you, I will not give the floor to more than ten speakers on these deletion amendments, so that all opinions can be expressed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u162	Call the rules!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u163	On the basis of what article, Mr. Schellenberger?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u164	I ask for the floor on the basis of Rule 58, not for one but for two personal facts. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] First of all, the minister suggested that not speaking French when I entered the school of the Republic because my parents and grandparents had decided to teach me Alsatian, I would be a separatist. No, Minister, I'm not a separatist! [[Same movements]] As for Mrs Bannier, who calls for dignity – her remarks echo yours, Mr President – she seems to me to question the benches of our group... No, Mrs Bannier, it is not because the debates are agitated that we lose our dignity! We defend our identity, our history and our culture, we do so with strength and passion, and with dignity!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u165	That's not a point of order!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u166	I note that what you referred to as a point of order was not a point of order and I do not consider that to be a personal fact either. You simply challenged the minister's position, expressing your point of view. Mr Marc Le Fur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u167	[[Protests on the benches of the LaREM group]] [[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] First of all, I stress that this article is the heart of the text and I am pleased that many Members are aware of regional languages: there have never been so many people in the House to discuss it. Some come out of conviction, others out of obedience, don't they? We're out of conviction! [[Other movements]] Mr Minister, I was very surprised at what you have just said and which has struck our colleague Raphaël Schellenberger, and I am all the more surprised that I am convinced that you are shared on this issue. Inside you there is a heart, and it is touched by regional languages; You told us that you were intellectually sensitive to this problem. You have a heart... but at home, the neck is stiff!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u168	A little measure, Mr. Le Fur!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u169	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] In you, it is uniformity, jacobinism, refusal of differences, refusal of singularity; So obviously the regional languages hinder your neck! Well, make an effort! I know that in French Guiana, you have acted, I have heard from you. We ask you to move on to this issue because if your amendment passes, there will be nothing or so little left of Mr Molac's text. Transpartisans when it comes to going towards the essentials, we are gathered around what speaks to our hearts, to our sensibilities, to our origins, gathered to defend this bill. Know how to respect this, do not treat us with contempt – I know that you do not fall into excesses of the guard of seals –, be understanding and admit that it is important to us. It is about the becoming of languages, of that of a heritage: the heritage of France!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u170	Mrs Liliana Tanguy has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u171	I would like to remind you that regional languages belong to the French cultural heritage and that linguistic diversity is a wealth for France. The subject of immersion is a false problem: I highly value my colleague Sylvain Maillard, but his argument that there would be a risk for learning French and therefore for emancipation and equal opportunities does not hold, it is contradicted by the facts. Children who learn regional languages are particularly open to cultural exchanges and multilingualism, and are also, as the rapporteur has said, in school success – attest to their very good achievements in the baccalaureate, particularly in the Rennes Academy for Children Schooled in Diwan Schools. Immersion education does not, on the contrary, affect the mastery of French and the exercise of French citizenship. [[Applause on various benches]] I want to share my personal experience with you: I lived in total immersion in my mother tongue until the age of 5 and studied bilingually until the age of 14; I am proof that we can have grown up in immersion and become a representative of the French nation. For all these reasons, I will not vote for these deletion amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u172	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u173	Minister, no one is questioning the Republican promise to learn French for all our children, it is unanimous on all benches. Your assessment in this area could be discussed with interest, but that is not the point of the day. I do not understand, when you stated that you did not want to fall into the caricature, how you were able, in defending the Government's abolition amendment, to oppose the partisans of the French language and those of the regional languages, who would be separatists. That's absolutely not true. Paul Molac, when explaining the reason for his bill, took care to demonstrate that the immersive method does not harm the learning of the French language and that, on the contrary, it can have positive effects on the French language. [[Applause on some of the banks of the LLR andLT groups]] It is not a question of discussing a principle but of its application; You yourself said that it was a matter of discussing not why, but how. As you can see, the question of modalities is a matter of unanimity, in any case a trans-party consensus. Your responsibility as Minister of National Education is to enable the implementation of immersive education.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u174	Mr Erwan Balanant has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u175	[[Applause on various benches]] Ladies and gentlemen, I will tell you about two people who are very dear to me: my father and my daughter. My father's mother tongue was Breton and when – at the age of 7, I believe – he arrived at the school of the Republic, like Mr. Schellenberger, he did not speak French. He was then, in his own way, immersed. As for my daughter, I chose to enrol her in a Diwan school; She spoke French at home and learned Breton in this school by also practicing immersion. It is now known that this is the best method of learning a language and that never harms the original language; It strengthens, builds and structures it. My father became a professor of French, then worked in the management of equipment; He was mayor of his commune. Today, he still speaks Breton but, alas, more with great world. For even if efforts are made, this language is disappearing. The French Republic was able to preserve its vineyards, to create labels to protect its food production, and it would not be able to protect its languages?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u176	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u177	[[Applause on various benches]] For me, there's something wrong. I know, Minister, because we talked about it, that you like the Breton languages and all the regional languages. Make the choice to make immersion possible because it is the best way to save our languages, this heritage treasure that we all cherish!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u178	Mrs Sandrine Mörch has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u179	As often happens, I will refer to my thirty years of journalistic experience, during which I have surveyed our territory along and wide, in its smallest corners: I have seen as our Renaissance villages, our taste products, our fields, our dances, our peasants and the spine of all this, namely the local language, sluggish and even disappear. Many rediscover it today, not, alas, because they would have listened to their old people, but because they feel that there is a living source there that can counterbalance their uprooting. The state of our so-called small heritage is pitiful, we let it die completely. And today, these are roots that we desperately seek to recreate, they are anchors that many, including young people in perdition, in lack of sense, in lack of families in the broad sense, are trying to find by returning to these territories to abandonment. Regional languages are a true source of shared and regenerating joy, not negligible in the times that run. How do you think that older people who are confined all year round – not just during the co-vid – in their village or in their isolated home hold on, if not because of their common culture and language? I would also like to remind you that in Occitanie, the briefcases are used to fight back, because if not all the pupils are of Occitan origin, on the contrary, they offer them a common anchor, antidote to racism and confinement. Some visionaries have dedicated their lives to collecting the national treasure of expressions, turns, non-saids, songs, music, dance, and the day that someone – a media, for example – will be interested in it, it will be jubilatory for all of us... but perhaps too late. It is a great day for lovers and defenders of these fragile languages, a great day for all their practitioners in our territories. But these languages have no future without a real political and journalistic will, because they have been kept out of the national media since at least ORTF or kept in small niches, they cannot compete with French – which will one day disappear in the same way in the rest of the world. That is why it is necessary to make a symbolic effort by valuing these languages in all territories and affirming a desire to preserve these cultural riches.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u180	Mrs Cécile Rilhac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u181	In the Chamber, everyone recognizes the importance of regional languages, not only in hexagon, but also in the overseas regions. However, the inclusion of the immersive method in the law does not seem necessary. I recall what the rapporteur said: the main intention of the text adopted at first reading was to increase the percentage of teaching foreign and regional languages in order to encourage bilingualism. This is a regulatory matter. In this text there is a new article, on which we will decide just now: Article 3, which makes it possible to find the right balance. It aims to integrate the teaching of regional languages into compulsory education, so that it is no longer optional. In order to maintain the balance of the text, it is necessary to delete Article 2b; This will make it possible to adopt this bill with respect for regional languages, which are very important for the heritage.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u182	That's wooden tongue!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u183	In the course of the discussion, some of you would like to register to speak, but I have indicated to you that I want to respect the rules laid down in the Rules of Procedure, while trying to keep the diversity of opinions alive. I will therefore not take any interventions other than those already noted; There's no point in sending me messages, I won't deviate from the rule. Mr Alain Perea has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u184	[[Applause fed on more than one bank]] First of all, although I have great respect for the Constitution and the French language, I recall that in 1914, when it was necessary to defend France, the majority of men did not speak French, but Breton, Occitan or other languages. We can speak another language and love France, and die for it! [[Same movements]] As a son of immigrants, I would like to go back to the argument put forward by the authors of the deletion amendments that there would be no chance if we did not speak French well. How could such a message be conveyed to all those who continue to arrive in France and live in immersion, while their parents speak a foreign language? How could they be told, "Since your parents don't speak French at home, you won't have a chance"? France must defend other values, do not be mistaken in the fight by voting in favour of these amendments. You can very well speak another language in your family and succeed; It is also the strength and beauty of our nation. [[Same movements]] Everything that has been said about immersion from a theoretical point of view is proven; I will not go back to that, as the rapporteur has said on several occasions. In Occitania, those who speak Occitan often refer, through small sentences, to popular wisdom. It stresses that it is through immersion – even if they do not speak of it in these terms – that one really learns a language, that is, through daily practice. We need to get closer to this popular wisdom rather than cut ourselves off by voting in favour of amendments opposed to immersion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u185	Mr Frédéric Reiss has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u186	The President of the Republic is committed to sustainable development of regional languages, which are the strength of our regions. Minister, you are singing regional languages, which UNESCO has classified as being in great danger of extinction. So you're making a mistake; Some colleagues have already given evidence that immersive teaching is not an obstacle to learning and mastering French. I am part of the generation of Alsatians who learned French from the preparatory course of the school of the Republic. I can assure you that immersive teaching must not frighten those who advocate good command of the French language.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u187	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u188	The rapporteur is right when he refers to the good academic performance, particularly in French, of students practising regional languages. Mr President of the Committee, Mr Bruno Studer, you are also convinced of this, since you have not voted in favour of the deletion of Article 2 teren committee; Call him back to the minister! [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] [[Same movements]] Minister, regional languages are not like the Wonder pile: they only wear out if we don't use them! That is why we must vote against your deletion amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u189	Mr Gaël Le Bohec has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u190	Mr. Minister suggested that, as Mr. Lachaud said, the use of regional languages could be detrimental to the knowledge of the French language. That's totally wrong, the numbers show it. We have heard, however, Mr Lachaud, your colleague François Rufin advocate the practice of picard, with commitment and vehementness. I would like to remind him friendlyly that he may not be a co-signator of your amendments if he does not wish to delete Article 2b. In keeping with Mr Molac's comments, I would like to give examples from the national education website, which contains the logo "For a school of trust". Breton, which I am, will defend the Basque language and all the regional languages. Here are the results of the evaluations of CP and EC1 of the children who followed the 100% Basque experiment at nursery school: in CP, their results in French do not show any delay and are even better; In mathematics, these students also have a better success. These are official results, published on the national education website. For this reason, in order to give children an extraordinary openness to the world and regional languages, to allow them to be proud of nationhood through these languages, I will vote against the deletion amendments. I will end with these words: "kelennomp, war raok"; Let's teach, let's move!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u191	I wish to make a point of order!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u192	We're listening, Mr. Lachaud.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u193	I am basing myself on Rule 58: point of order for personal fact. I would like to point out to our colleague that François Ruffin's comments, if he listens to them correctly, did not deviate in any way from what I was able to say. We defend regional languages, but by no means immersion. [[Protests on several benches]] On this subject, I am curious to discover how the Constitutional Council will read this text. A few months ago, during the debate on the bill to uphold the principles of the Republic, the Assembly adopted an amendment prohibiting over 50 per cent of family education in a language that is not French. Today, we would vote the opposite? There's something totally incoherent about this! I wonder how the constitutional judge will understand that.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u194	Your point of order, which falls as much into this category as that of Mr Schellenberger earlier, is noted.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u195	He's a lot worse!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u196	Mr Philippe Naillet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u197	I come from a territory, La Réunion, where for decades we have been told that speaking Creole is a bad thing; The only language, that of success, was French. By discriminating the Creole language, we were amputated with part of ourselves. The consequences in society are still visible: the illiteracy rate in Réunion is 21%, compared with 7% in hexagon. [[Applause on several benches]] Fortunately, things have changed. In all classes where bilingualism is practised, where reception is done in Creole, the results are better and the children of Réunion speak French better. I would like to pay tribute to all the associations in Réunion – the Creole language office, the LLKR association, Creole at school in Réunion – and to all the activists, teachers, civil society personalities and politicians who have fought for the recognition of the Creole language. [[Same movements]] Mr Minister, we need to go further and provide resources, because even though things are moving forward in Reunion, we are still lagging behind in bilingual classes. We must not be afraid of regional languages. The French Republic is great when it accepts diversity.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u198	Mr Christophe Euzet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u199	The debate should not be reduced to brutal opposition between partisans and fierce opponents of regional languages. There are a multitude of intermediate positions that can be defended. I would like to share with you the opinion of the Group of the European People's Party on this matter. On the one hand, we feel that immersive teaching is a very interesting and relevant way of acquiring languages. It would be detrimental for the Republic to give up this prospect, as it would abandon the revival of regional languages. On the other hand, one cannot be insensitive to the speech made by the Minister of National Education, who recalls that the mastery of French is an essential element within the framework of the Republic and one of the central tasks of national education. [[Applause on the benches of the Action ens group]] In terms of legislation, there is a need to distinguish between what one wishes to do and what one does by making a provision in the marble of the law. With regard to Paul Molac's text, which we generally support, we defend the generalization of education in the regional language, provided that this does not prejudice the mastery of the French language, the importance of which is stressed in the Constitution. That is why we will vote against the deletion amendments. In a moment, however, we will propose an amendment to replace the term "knowledge" with "mastery", which seems to us to be a good intermediate solution between the two visions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u200	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u201	Let me begin by reiterating our support for the development of regional languages; There are no partisans on the one hand, and adversaries on the other. I am in favour of a Molac law for the promotion of regional languages, but we have the right to be very attentive to the modalities of this promotion. I do not say that from nothing: since 2017, the balance sheet on this matter – which is part of the continuity of other balance sheets – has been positive. More students learn regional languages. By grace, unlike previous debates, let us not caricatur things. In the press, some have portrayed me as an opponent of regional languages. I say it very solemnly, even if it is partly in vain: it is not. We will, of course, continue to promote regional languages; This is the meaning of the national education policy. The only question is: Is immersion the right approach? I would like to return to various points, including in the light of some of your comments. [[Protests on a few benches of the LR group]] Mr Le Fur, you explain that you were talking Breton at home and that you learned French at the École de la République: you bring water to my mill!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u202	But no, that was fifty years ago!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u203	Historically, things have been reversed: true immersion is obviously the language that we speak with the family. Everyone is free to speak Breton as a family, for example, it goes without saying. Before the 1914 war, in a completely different era from ours, children were forced not to speak their family language; We were wrong to do it. Today, the situation is reversed: we don't talk about Breton as a family and we want it to be taught at school. Our reasoning must therefore change. It is quite right to say that we spoke Breton or Occitan in Verdun, that we were fighting for France while being a regional mother tongue. But precisely, these soldiers had gone to the school of the Republic, where they had learned French; Even if it was a kind of second language, we loved France thanks to it. In fact, everything you have said, both of you, supports my proposal to delete Article 2b. You take historical examples that clearly demonstrate the fundamental role of the school in the consolidation of the Republic. The question is whether immersion should be devoted to promoting regional languages. Again, the pedagogical examples you have cited show that the most effective is to adopt a 50/50 distribution. Moreover, schools that teach foreign languages know this very well and are organized in this way. I do not see why we would push the plug until we refuse French in some discipline. This is not your case, I am not bringing this case to you, but some defend this device with ulterior thoughts; They will be able to seize such a tool. A historical and geopolitical awareness of the European situation must be maintained when making similar decisions. Don't doubt my good faith – I don't doubt yours. You have a heart, Mr. Le Fur, I don't question its existence for a second...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u204	Oh, it's not safe!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u205	...no more than I question your neck. You have accused me of having a stiff neck, I take it as a compliment: a minister responsible for national education must sometimes have a stiff neck. Besides, when you agree with me, you sometimes find it a quality. Indeed, it is sometimes necessary to defend the school of the Republic and the future of our children. Yes, your arguments strengthen my position: tomorrow we will need a school that makes a better place for regional languages. As I say very clearly, this is an official position. That of the President of the Republic on this subject is very clear. Yes, we want the promotion of regional languages; Yes, semi-immersive methods can be used – this is already the case; Yes, experiments are possible, and I said earlier all the good things I thought about Diwan schools. However, I do not want a "diwanization" of the system, nor a universalization of immersion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u206	That's not what's proposed!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u207	[[Mr Raphaël Schellenberger protested]] Of course I do! There will be ever more active and attractive groups. This explains some successes: many actors are putting a lot of energy into these schools. The parents concerned are very attentive to the education their children receive – I have studied this subject closely. Other questions are mixed: the situation of the Amerindians of Guyana is different from that of the children of highly educated people of the Basque Country. It is necessary to be fair and measured to address these issues, and avoid losing the stakes...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u208	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u209	Parisianism!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u210	Don't worry, in some parts of Paris you will find a lot of people agree with you! It is a matter of defending the future of children, not in the short term, because nothing serious will happen in the next two or three years – we will see to it – but in the long term. What school balance do we maintain? Let us not divide ourselves unnecessarily, let us defend a law for the promotion of regional languages. I make a commitment to participate, even if it involves hearing criticisms like those addressed to me, especially about the options in high school. Nevertheless, behind the choice of immersion is a seed that I do not want to see planted. Do we want all children to go to school and learn French, within a general framework of respect for the values of the Republic? We have a responsibility to history. We can promote regional languages without approving the immersion that Article 2 provides for.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u211	Regional languages is not a tourist brochure!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u212	I put to the vote identical amendments Nos 305, 151, 239, 249 and 294.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u213	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 315 Number of votes cast 299 Absolute majority 150 For adoption 111 Against 188
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u214	This is a vote on an amendment, even though I am pleased that the result is such a strong response. We will continue the discussion with so much participation and passion. I call Mr Pacôme Rupin to support Amendment No. 269.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u215	Article L. 312-10 of the Education Code authorizes the optional teaching of regional languages in two forms: a teaching of regional language and culture; bilingual instruction in the French and regional languages. Article 2 ter of the draft law tends to introduce a third form, immersive education. My amendment is intended to change the wording of the amendment, by writing: "provided that the student has a good command of the spoken language and of the written language of the student concerned. Its adoption would make it possible to reconcile the two objectives defended in the Chamber, immersive education and a good command of French by all the children of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u216	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u217	The amendment is completely satisfied. As I pointed out earlier, the Constitutional Council has clearly explained that children must acquire the skills of the common foundation, including a good knowledge of French. I repeat: the bill that I am defending is part of this framework. There is no question of questioning the Constitution or this interpretation of the Constitutional Council. I therefore ask you to withdraw the amendment, failing which the opinion will be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u218	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u219	This proposal is very interesting, it refers to the debate we have just had. After the result of the previous vote, it is all the more important to ensure that we are in control of French. The amendment is in the right direction. Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u220	Mrs Stéphanie Atger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u221	Mr Rupin's amendment provides a framework for Article 2b, and its adoption would allow us to continue the debate in the right direction. We shall therefore vote on it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u222	Mr Fabien Di Filippo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u223	The amendment shows the ambiguity of Mr Molac's proposal, which I regret. I also regret that the minister has not been more clear in his remarks. My colleagues and I felt insulted by his understatements and his amalgams with separatism. What is the risk you are talking about, Minister, what are these harmful germs? Mr Molac defends a cultural heritage whose teaching enriches young people and improves school results; Do not confuse this with other experiences in foreign language teaching. If you mix it up, you have to explain it. The transmission of a cultural heritage is more necessary than ever and the school must participate in it from an early age. Indeed, it is at that time that the child, like a sponge, absorbs everything: mother tongue, regional, French. [[Applause on a few benches of the LR group]] The French language has two problems and immersive teaching at school is certainly not one of them. The first is the Twitter novlangue, universalist and inclusive, which leads to a genuine linguistic and cultural impoverishment of our country – we must pay attention to it. The second is the English dialect, which is ever more present, even on our identity cards, according to a decision of the Government. This is a real threat to the French language. It has negative consequences, not those to which you alluded, but a certain weakening of the concept of a nation that unites us all here, regardless of our regional cultures and origins.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u224	I would point out that if this amendment were adopted, Amendments Nos 90 to 212 would not apply.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u225	I have before me eight identical amendments, Nos 4, 33, 52, 74, 118, 141, 176 and 211. I call Mr Le Fur to support Amendment No. 4.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u226	We welcome the result of the last public vote, and we know that the Members of the Republican Group are not alone in this case. This measure is important: immersion is recognized in the laws of the Republic as a relevant, effective and institutionally respectful teaching method, and it is very good. We must broaden this debate on languages to include regional cultures as a whole. Regional culture is what allows a child to know his or her territory – geography, culture, history. Brittany has a unique history, like Alsace. We know that Alsace was very affected by the Thirty Years' War, which spared other French regions: the Alsatians must know their history and geography, their culture. They must be proud of themselves: a people proud of them is able to confront the world, while a person who is less than himself has difficulty in doing so. I know that our idea may not thrive on this text, but it must be on the table. We fight not only for languages, but for cultures. The cultures of France are plural, and all are respectable. What I'm saying is true for the metropolis, but perhaps even more so for the overseas. Our overseas compatriots are good Frenchmen, while being good Martinique and good Guadeloupees, for example. Their history must also be taken into account. Our concern is to have a real debate in order to prepare ourselves for the examination of future laws. I therefore withdraw this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u227	Let us therefore have this real debate, both on this subject and on the others. I call Mr Yves Hemedinger to support Amendment No. 33.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u228	I am also pleased that the government amendment has not been adopted. This is a first step forward. Immersion education is a real success, we must support it. The purpose of this amendment is to integrate regional culture into language teaching. Both are intimately linked and are indispensable compasses for our regional identities, to which we are obviously very attached. I therefore urge our colleagues to adopt the text of the Senate, so that this bill will at last constitute a real historic step forward in a France, Minister, not separatist, but rich and strong in its diversity. Your formulation was really unfortunate. We've been taken away from our regions, leave us our languages! I withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u229	If you wish to withdraw your amendments, say so before taking the floor, the debate will be faster and more legible. These are identical amendments from the same group: under the amendments to our Rules of Procedure, one could imagine giving the floor to defend them only to one speaker. Mr Xavier Breton, yes or no, do you withdraw Amendment No 52?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u230	We tabled these amendments to stress the need for...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u231	I'm asking you if he's withdrawn!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u232	I'm defending him!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u233	Is he removed?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u234	Right now, he's not!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u235	It's the caricature of the obstruction!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u236	It is a question of the link between language and culture. According to sociologist Louis Porcher, "every language carries with it a culture of which it is both the producer and the product". She is the producer of it because part of the culture is built by language – literature in particular – even if other arts, such as painting or sculpture, do not use words; On the other hand, it is also the product of this crop. It is therefore important to link the two, which is why we wanted to open this debate. Nevertheless, we are also concerned to see this bill passed in a way that is consistent with that of the Senate. I therefore withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u237	I imagine that identical amendments No. 74 by Mr Frédéric Reiss, 118 by Mr Thibault Bazin, 141 by Mr Raphaël Schellenberger and 176 by Mrs Laurence Trastour-Isnart will suffer the same fate. They're not removed? They're being defended. Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor to support Amendment No 211 – unless of course you wish to withdraw it, Mrs Ménard.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u238	I would like to take the floor. The learning of regional languages cannot be independent of the teaching of regional culture. I have already mentioned Occitan and troubadours in this regard. It is extremely important that our children, when learning the Occitan language, can also understand everything that is an integral part of the regional culture in Occitanie, including troubadours. As to whether or not I withdraw my amendment, Mr President, I would like to know the rapporteur's opinion first. Would he like to see our amendments withdrawn, and if so why?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u239	I would point out, Mrs Ménard, that since you do not belong to any group, you were free to defend your amendment. It turned out that all the Members of the Group of the European People's Party The Republicans who tabled identical amendments had the same position, and under our Rules of Procedure only one speaker can defend the whole.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u240	Mr President, I want to make a point of order!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u241	Mr Schellenberger, you will do it later. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u242	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for your various amendments, but I would like to speed up the pace a little, so that we have time to address the very important issue of the school package. Your amendments relating to regional culture are, of course, important, but Article 2 concerns the teaching method, not the content of education, which falls within the regulatory field. It is the responsibility of the Minister of National Education to define the curricula, even if teachers are encouraged to take examples in the direct environment of children, in order to be as close to their reality as possible and to open them up at the national and global levels. These amendments are therefore partly satisfied, and unfortunately I can only give them an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u243	Mr. President!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u244	Mr. Schellenberger, will you finally get into the nails?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u245	You're the one who's going beyond the nails!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u246	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u247	I invite you to withdraw your amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u248	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u249	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] It is based on Rule 100 of the Rules of Procedure, concerning the defence of the amendments and the conduct of our debates. It is not my practice, Mr President, to question the Presidency, but I consider that your way of presiding, by refusing to allow us to defend our amendments, or assuming that we defend them in the same way and for the same reasons as other colleagues, is somewhat disproportionate. You seem, Mr President, in a hurry to address the following text on the agenda, and I share your interest in its subject. However, accept a calm debate on this text on regional languages, an important issue for some of us, since it concerns our mother tongue. Your way of presiding does not allow such serenity.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u250	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] I hear what you're saying, Mr. Schellenberger, but your manner of sitting has almost led me to call you to order. Let us not settle a dispute between us here and let me explain the situation to you. We have a series of identical amendments from the Republican Group. Mr. Marc Le Fur took the floor for two minutes and then withdrew his amendment. Mr Yves Hemedinger then took the floor for two minutes, before withdrawing his amendment. I then asked Mr Xavier Breton whether he wished to withdraw his amendment; He wanted to defend him, finally to remove him. I therefore consider that the four other identical amendments, from the same group, will be subject to the same fate, unless you say otherwise. This is how the debates will be chaired this morning, whether you like it or not!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u251	Mrs Ménard, do you withdraw your amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u252	Yes.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u253	[[Same movements]] There will be no delaying manoeuvres this morning under my presidency! I have before me seven identical amendments, Nos 11, 35, 54, 120, 142, 178 and 213. I call Mr Le Fur to support Amendment No. 11.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u254	[[Protests on the benches of the LaREM group]] I understand that some of you are shocked to devote time to the debate on regional languages, but we are interested in this issue; It is also of interest to a number of our compatriots and speakers of these languages. Our main concern is to ensure that this text is adopted.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u255	We see you, you're obstructing!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u256	This amendment, for which I will await the answers of the rapporteur and the minister, proposes to clarify that we speak the regional languages 'of France'. It responds to your implicit objection, minister, of a risk of separatism. Some speak more openly, saying that the text opens the door to other languages, foreign languages from the Maghreb. We are also guided by the provisions of the European Charter for Regional Languages.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u257	Is that a point of order?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u258	But no, I'm defending an amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u259	We don't know anymore!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u260	You have to follow, especially for those who are not used to it and who are in command! Minister, giving such a clarification is tantamount to evacuating the difficulty you have mentioned, even if you have not explained the reasons for it. We want to protect the languages of metropolitan France and that of overseas France. We refuse to open up languages of foreign origin, which are the subject of another debate, even if it is legitimate, because only "regional languages belong to the heritage of France", according to article 75-1 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u261	Mr Julien Ravier has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u262	It relies, like the one done by Raphaël Schellenberger, on Rule 100 of the Rules of Procedure. The amendments we are presenting to you are not group amendments. If they are, of course, the same, they are defended by Members with a different sensitivity on the issues we are debating, and each of them wishes to be able to speak. For example, on the previous series of amendments on regional culture, Mr Trastour-Isnart, who was unable to support his amendment, entrusted me with the task of doing so, and to defend on this occasion a particular regional culture that we share: Provençal culture. Can we, Mr President, if you agree, defend our amendments before we hear the opinions of the rapporteur and the Government, so that we can then decide on a possible withdrawal?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u263	I can fully hear your point of view, Mr. Ravier. I understand that you have grasped the whole point of the right of amendment today. It goes without saying that Parliament's amendments will be defended. However, on the series of amendments we are talking about, you have had similar expressions: from the moment they are not different, I consider the position to be the same. That is how I intend to chair this meeting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u264	The identical amendments No 35 by Mr Patrick Hetzel and No 54 by Mr Xavier Breton are being defended. I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support Amendment No. 120.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u265	I have just noted that my amendment No 118 has been withdrawn, although I did not wish to do so. On the contrary, I wanted to talk about the Lorrain culture. I am indeed concerned because the Lorraine region disappeared administratively during the previous quinquennium, and the Lorraine culture has brought us a great deal. I know that you are well aware, Minister Nancy and Art Nouveau, of the heritage of the intersections of this cross-border region. I therefore hope that Amendment No 118 will not be withdrawn, because it is important to preserve the cultural heritage of our regions. Lorraine had a specific language: in the region of my colleague Fabien Di Filippo, the platt is spoken from Audun-le-Tiche to Saarburg. I have not withdrawn my amendment, because I have a habit of defending the amendments that I am tabling, and I ask you to correct this point.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u266	I'll take note of that.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u267	Mrs Emilie Chalas has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u268	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Dear colleagues of the Republican Group, we are not fooled by your manoeuvre, nor must the French be fooled! According to Rule 58(4) of the Rules of Procedure, "where more than one point of order is made by members of the same group and the object of which is clearly to question the agenda, the chairman may refuse to speak in that capacity". Paragraph 3 of the same rule states that "when, clearly, his intervention has no connection with the rules or a personal fact..., the President shall withdraw his word". I say this to the French and my colleagues: let us let this circus be done, no one must be fooled, let us not respond to the provocation, because they want to save time not to address the real subject we want to debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u269	In that case, put it on the agenda!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u270	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on a few benches of the Dem and Actir ens groups]] We have already discussed regional languages, and we will continue for several more hours. Let us not allow ourselves to be trapped, because it is clear, ladies and gentlemen, that your only strategy is to refuse to debate a subject on which you know not to be the majority, which I find absolutely scandalous! I congratulate you, Mr President, on the calm you have shown in conducting the debates.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u271	I call Mr Schellenberger to support Amendment No. 142.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u272	This is the first time I've spoken on the substance this morning. Mrs Chalas, ladies and gentlemen, why are we here? We often engage in politics to change our society or to defend new methods of governance. This is the case for many of you, the La République group on the move; This is also the case for many of us in the Republican Group, even if we are not committed to the same subjects. Personally, I am motivated by the defence of the specificity of my region, by my visceral attachment to Alsace and to my identity, forged in the practice of the Alsatian language, the only one I have spoken during my first years of life. [[Applause on a few benches of the LR group]] I want to defend this specificity, even if I mean that the agenda is complex. I respect all colleagues who want to discuss the next issue this afternoon. I will not be part of it, for it is a subject on which I ask myself questions and therefore I prefer to listen; But this morning I want to speak, because I care about the issue under discussion. I hope that France, the nation to which I am committed, will recognize regional specificities and regional languages, which are witnesses to the history of all French people who find themselves in a single national contract.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u273	Mr Julien Ravier has the floor to support Amendment No. 178.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u274	We will be here this afternoon, of course, to discuss the subject to which we all attach great importance. But you will agree that such a major subject of society deserves better than a simple parliamentary niche and a bill introduced at the initiative of a Member of Parliament!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u275	You are supposed to defend Amendment No 178 by Mrs Laurence Trastour-Isnart!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u276	I wanted to respond to the attacks we suffered.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u277	It was not an attack, it was a point of order!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u278	We have not sought, Mr President, to question the agenda, but to enforce the rules of the debate. Mr Trastour-Isnart's amendment proposes, along with his amendment No 176, that you have withdrawn, but that she wished to maintain, to insert the words 'de France' in paragraph 4, after the word'regional'. We would like to hear from the rapporteur and the Minister on this issue. If certain points are likely to be contrary to the Constitution, putting the church back in the centre of the village – forgive me for this expression, which derogates from the principle of secularism, but which is of tradition – may help to remedy it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u279	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 213.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u280	It is a perfect response to the accusations of promoting separatism raised by the Minister. He pointed out that the regional languages concerned were those of "France" and not those of another country, so that there was no ambiguity.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u281	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u282	Unfavorable opinion. [[Applause on the banks of theLT Group. – Mr Thierry Benoitapplaudit]] I would remind you that we want the National Assembly to adopt the bill in the same terms as the Senate, which will put an end to its legislative process and allow the passage of the text adopted by the Assembly. It is important not to waste time. On the substance, the amendments are satisfied. There are in fact two locutions: the Ministry of Culture speaks of "languages of France" and the Ministry of National Education, of "regional languages". I would like the text to be written on this point, but the whole code of national education should then be rewritten. Regional languages are necessarily part of France, as specified in Article 75-1 of the Constitution: "Regional languages belong to the heritage of France. »
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u283	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u284	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] The rapporteur is right. There are indeed two words, but the expression "regional languages" refers – more clearly than that of "languages of France" – to the languages of the regions of France. I therefore suggest that the amendments be withdrawn. Otherwise, I'll give you an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u285	I give a clarification for the clarity of our debates. Some seem to think that this afternoon the discussion will not continue on this text. Clearly, however, it will continue for a long time to come. I invite those Members who stressed the importance they attached to their presence in the Chamber this morning to attend. I have before me five identical amendments Nos 41, 48, 56, 273 and 290. Amendments Nos 41 by Mr Patrick Hetzel and 48 by Mr Marc Le Fur are being defended. Mr Xavier Breton has the floor to support Amendment No. 56.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u286	By these amendments, we propose to clarify that the teaching of regional languages is carried out mainly within their geographical area of attachment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u287	Amendments Nos 273 by Mr Jacques Cattin and 290 by Philippe Meyer are being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u288	These amendments are satisfied. It goes without saying that one will teach a language in its geographical area of attachment – why should one teach Basque in the North? – in order to respect the specificities of the territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u289	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u290	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u291	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 90.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u292	In view of the long discussion we had at the beginning of the sitting on the objective of a good knowledge of the French language, I withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u293	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 89 and 128, which are drafting. I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 89.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u294	I'll take it off.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u295	I call Mr Le Fur to support Amendment No. 128.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u296	He's forbidden. I would like to know the rapporteur's opinion on this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u297	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u298	The amendment is intended to delete the words "of the objective", so that paragraph 4 ends with the words "without prejudice to a good knowledge of the French language". I understand that your wording may seem simpler, but I would like us to stick to that of the Senate, whose clarity does not create any difficulty of interpretation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u299	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u300	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u301	Mr Marc Le Fur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u302	In the light of these explanations, I withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u303	Amendment No 121 by Mr Thibault Bazin is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u304	I have before me three amendments, Nos 252, 122 and 302, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 122 and 302 are identical. Mrs Aurore Bergé has the floor to support Amendment No. 252.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u305	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] The aim of the amendment is simple: it is better to speak not of "good knowledge", but of "mastery" of the French language. It seems essential, in the light of the discussions we have had, to reaffirm that, if we are to be able to learn regional languages, this immersive teaching must be without prejudice to the mastery of the French language.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u306	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u307	Amendment No 122 by Mr Thibault Bazin is being defended. I call Mr Euzet to support Amendment No. 302.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u308	We agree with Mrs Bergé. The National Education Code distinguishes the two concepts, specifying that pupils must have a mastery of the French language and a knowledge of foreign languages. We can support the principle of immersion – which implies that we teach disciplines in the regional language – while at the same time being committed to preserving the teaching of French. This is what is being done in classical schools, where about 10 hours a week are devoted to teaching the French language. While students acquire control of a regional language in immersion, they must have a reasonable command of the French language, because it is essential to maintain national cohesion and our common language.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u309	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u310	In my view, there is no great difference between mastery and good knowledge of a language, which is almost synonymous.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u311	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u312	I understand in what spirit you have tabled these amendments, but the Senate's drafting, which reflects our ambitions well, seems to me to be sufficiently clear and balanced. In any event, students who receive immersive education will not be able to escape the rights and obligations imposed on students in public education, in accordance with the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Council, which includes the acquisition of the common foundation of knowledge, skills and culture, including the mastery of the French language. This good acquisition is subject to regular evaluation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u313	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u314	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] These amendments are important: we cannot dilute the question of the mastery of the French language. Moreover, if we introduce the term "good knowledge of the French language" into this text, it may spread, by contagion. Mastery of the French language is a fundamental objective. All Members have said, whatever their vote, that they are attached to it. I therefore very much support the amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u315	Mr Sylvain Waserman has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u316	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Despite my commitment as an Alsatian elected to the regional languages, which there is no need to recall, I strongly support the amendments. Words are important. It is not enough for children to have only a good knowledge of French. They must have mastered it. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I am aware of the consequences of our decisions and of the fact that the rapporteur would like to see a proper adoption. But, while I am radically, fundamentally committed to regional languages, I want our children to master French.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u317	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u318	I fully support the amendments. On the one hand, adjectiving knowledge always seems to me delicate. On the other hand, as such, mastery refers not only to learning but also to the deliverance of our national language. In this debate, which exposes us to unnecessary divisions, these amendments should bring us together.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u319	Mr Thierry Benoit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u320	[[Applause on the banks of the UDI-I and LTU groups for several banks in the LaREM group]] [[Applause on the benches of the IDU-I group]] As we said earlier: the UDI-I Group wants a proper adoption, because it really wants to advance the cause of regional languages in our country. As we all know, the only way to do this is to vote on the text in the Senate. I would like to talk about the choice of "mastery" or "good knowledge". The text may have imperfections. But if we want to advance our cause, there is only one major issue: it will be necessary to re-establish Article 2d on tuition fees, which the Commission has removed. Once it is restored, we will be happy to vote on the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u321	Mr Aurélien Pradié has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u322	It was important to dissociate, from the beginning of the discussion, the mastery or good knowledge of the French language from the learning of regional languages. I do not understand that we are still debating an alleged competition between each other. The fact that we are still discussing this point is evidence of suspicion. Some Members do not hear more than you, Mr Minister, what the rapporteur has shown at the moment: learning regional languages is an opportunity to learn the national language better and to learn French better. The results proved it. Therefore, there is no need to sting or surround us with unnecessary precautions. In doing so, we deviate from the heart of the subject. The words "mastery", "mastery", "absolute mastery" can always be included in the text, and words can be added to the words. The fact that today so many young French people do not speak French has nothing to do with learning regional languages. The reason, more structural and more considerable, is elsewhere. While we are wasting time palabrating on the subject with super-fetatatory words, we do not deal with the real problem. [[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] Learning regional languages is an opportunity for the national language, for our territories and for our national identity. If we want young French people to have a better command of the national language, our debates must go far beyond the framework in which we are locked up this morning.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u323	Amendment No 123 by Mr Thibault Bazin is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u324	I have seven identical amendments before me: No 5 by Mr Marc Le Fur, No 34 by Mr Patrick Hetzel, No 53 by Mr Xavier Breton, No 75 by Mr Frédéric Reiss, No 119 by Mr Thibault Bazin, No 177 by Mrs Laurence Trastour-Isnart and No 212 by Mrs Emmanuelle de Ménard. All these amendments are being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u325	Unfavourable notice, for reasons already indicated.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u326	I have before me five identical amendments, Nos 40, 47, 55, 272 and 289. Amendment No 40 by Mr Patrick Hetzel is being defended. I call Mr Le Fur to support Amendment No. 47.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u327	By these amendments, we raise the question of the list of languages. For us, in Brittany, there is no concern: Breton and Gallo are recognized. But at present, the list is a circular. Isn't it paradoxical that it is established in a small ministry office? Legislating to recognize the existence of a regional language may not be urgent, especially since the issue is delicate, especially in the great world of the oc language. But in any case, the rapporteur and the minister must speak on this subject and, sooner or later, we will have to find ways and means to give all the regional languages – from the metropolis and overseas –, which are all beautiful but fragile, a legislative status, even if this cannot be done on the occasion of this text, whose constraints we measure.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u328	Mr Xavier Breton has the floor to support Amendment No. 55.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u329	The aim is to indicate to which languages the teaching of regional languages applies. Among these, I would like to mention Francoprovençal. Allow me to pay tribute to the associations that continue to make it live, especially in our Bresse territories – but the geographical area of this language is much wider than we think.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u330	Mr Jacques Cattin has the floor to support Amendment No. 272.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u331	My dear colleague Paul Molac, the proposal for a law on the protection of the heritage of regional languages and their promotion, which you defend, honours you, as it will honour all the Members who will vote earlier. Our country, France, is rich in its heritage and culture; Our regional languages are the living witnesses. Unfortunately, the centralism that leads to cultural uniformity in our country brings us today to a situation to which we, elected representatives of French cultural diversity, must react. Many of us have still experienced natural immersion, in everyday life, which has not prevented us from mastering the French language, then German and English, or even other languages. Unfortunately, this biotope for the expression of our regional languages has deteriorated sharply over time. We know the reasons for this: it has already begun in our time when, at school, we were not allowed to speak Alsatian in the playground. Yes, minister, the Jacobine vision of your department bears a very heavy responsibility, but, I assure you, it is not today. How can immersive, optional and adapted teaching be a handicap for a good mastery of the French language or even other languages? National education must recognise all our regional languages, from Corsican to Catalan, to Breton and Alsatian, which I do not forget, or the Belgian language, to prevent them from becoming relics of the past. However, since we want a proper vote, I withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u332	Mr Philippe Meyer's amendment No 289 is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u333	Unfavorable opinion. The list of languages is drawn up by the Ministry of National Education and is understandable. I would simply ask the Minister to think carefully about two languages: Francoprovençal and Western Flemish, for which there is a strong demand on the ground. You should continue the bilingual teaching experience of Western Flemish.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u334	Good!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u335	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u336	There are advantages and disadvantages to this proposal. What is certain is that it rigidizes the system: if languages are recognized in the law, it means that in the future, we will have to go back to the legislator to recognize others, and that can be a problem. At the same time, the amendment has the advantage of devoting the list. I'm sending out a wisdom advice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u337	The identical amendments No 44 by Mr Patrick Hetzel, No 50 by Mr Marc Le Fur, No 58 by Mr Xavier Breton, No 276 by Mr Jacques Cattin and No 293 by Mr Philippe Meyer were defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u338	I ask for a withdrawal because they are satisfied.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u339	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u340	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u341	Are all the amendments withdrawn?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u342	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u343	I have before me five identical amendments, Nos 42, 49, 57, 274 and 291. Mr Patrick Hetzel's amendment No 42 is being defended. I call Mr Le Fur to support Amendment No. 49.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u344	I wanted to touch briefly on the issue of young people who did not choose bilingual education but options – you acknowledged a difficulty, minister, and admitted that efforts would be devoted to it tomorrow. That was the case with both of us. However, these young people encounter a lot of difficulties because they are obsessed with the baccalaureate and the pathup, they are obliged to make choices that force them to renounce their attraction for the regional languages. We need to make progress on this. In asking this question, I am thinking of the young people – and I am not the only one – from Notre-Dame High School in Guingamp, who took this option that they are no longer able to follow and who have had to give it up. It's a tear for them. Failing to find a solution for them, let us find one for the generations that will follow, that is those who will pass the baccalaureate next year.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u345	Amendments Nos 57 by Mr Xavier Breton and 274 by Mr Jacques Cattin are being defended. I call Mr Philippe Meyer to support Amendment No. 291.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u346	It is important to mention the link between this text and the baccalaureate test. If one wants to mark the minds, by facilitating the teaching of the regional language in high schools within the framework of the baccalaureate, it would have to be a speciality in its own right, with an attractive coefficient for our young people to be more tempted to present it to the baccalaureate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u347	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u348	[[Mr YannickKerlogotapplaudit]] I invite you to withdraw your amendment. Nevertheless, I understand your concern, related to the reform of the baccalaureate, which has seen the enrolment in high school be halved or even two-thirds reduced. However, the organisation of examinations falls within the regulatory sphere and therefore falls within the competence of the Minister of National Education. The legislator cannot solve this problem. You are asking a real question and I appeal to the minister, to whom I will always remind you that associations and local elected representatives are asking to give the same status to regional languages and old languages.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u349	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u350	I agree with you on the defence of ancient languages, which unfortunately is not the subject of such a lively debate; I sometimes feel a little lonely in this fight. That is why I have taken specific measures. It's like this: you probably have to have a stiff neck on subjects that don't have enough defenders. As far as regional languages are concerned, I shall say the same thing as the rapporteur, for two reasons. On the one hand, this is not within the scope of the law, which in itself is a sufficient reason. On the other hand, problems can arise – I will address them because I am sensitive to what the rapporteur, Paul Molac, has said – but the progress you call for in your wishes has already been achieved. From this point of view, your amendment is satisfied. Indeed, what is quite new in the reform of the baccalaureate and the general and technological high school, and which did not exist before, is the fact that you can now choose the regional language as a specialty teaching. This is a sign that, since 2017, progress has been made on the subject of regional languages. This possibility exists, as I indicated in my speech earlier. Specialty education is a completely new measure which allows, for example, a young person in first class, who is already planning to become a teacher or specialist in this regional language, to deepen his knowledge considerably, which was not possible before since it did not exist. Again, this shows that we have taken this subject very seriously. With regard to the question of the options, which are not the subject of your amendments but which Mr Molac has addressed, you are right to point out that in some places, because of a demand problem, they have disappeared, which I deplore. In this regard, we must distinguish in our reasoning between the situation of schoolchildren and students, on the one hand, and that of high school students, on the other. I am very open to discussions on this point, in order to succeed in further promoting options. I also mentioned the CNED: since we will never be able to ensure that every high school in the region offers the regional language option, network and distance solutions must be provided for high schools and we must be able to develop regional language teaching in primary and secondary schools. In any case, in primary school and college, our record speaks for us: the number of students has increased. In high schools, logic evolves in the direction of deepening, but we still need to correct certain points, developing voluntary options that we must be able to make attractive. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u351	Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u352	Minister, you mentioned the ancient languages that are of interest to you, and you said that you were one of the few to defend them. The question of former French also arises. The developments that have been envisaged by your ministry, including the CAPES program or teaching time at university, pose a major threat to these teachings and show the low importance attached to them. The mastery of the French language and the understanding of certain spelling and grammatical rules resulting from the former French language can only benefit from the latter's learning. [[Ms. Émilie Bonnivard applauds]] If I speak of the old French while we are debating regional languages, it is because these subjects are linked. So I hope that your declaration of love for the ancient languages will lead you to go back to some of the planks made on the old French language. There is a strong expectation of the medievalists, as you know; I want to relay their appeal here, so that you can take them more into consideration.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u353	Mr Marc Le Fur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u354	Before I withdraw my amendment, I would like to thank the rapporteur and the minister for taking the matter seriously. Formerly, those who took the Breton option had the opportunity to do so as a free candidate. Today, I understand from your remarks that this is not possible. Could this not change very quickly, possibly with the help of the CNED, since this faculty is now open? Regarding the very precise example of the Lycée Notre-Dame in Guingamp – my colleague Yannick Kerlogot could intervene on the subject more cleverly than I am – the young people indicate that if they take Breton, they deprive themselves of an option that would count for obtaining the desired field in Parcoursup. As for the choice of Breton, it does not pay very much, given the points it reports. You're gonna retaliate that we don't choose Breton to earn points. But let us put ourselves in the place of young people, it also counts. Moving forward on these issues is within reach, it's not very complicated, it doesn't require public money and it should be possible in the short term. In any case, I have noted, Mr.Minister, that you have the will to evolve on this issue. Could you tell us more so as to reassure these young people very concretely?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u355	Do I have to understand from these statements that all the amendments have been withdrawn, including those of Mr Bazin?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u356	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u357	I'm not a signatory to any of them!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u358	[[Smile]] That's the point! You're ready for anything, Mr. Bazin!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u359	No, I'm not ready for anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u360	Mrs Ramlati Ali has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u361	First of all, let me welcome my colleague Paul Molac for the very useful bill that meets the real need of our territories. In my territory, we did not wait for this text to begin a real work in favour of the recognition of regional languages. The strategic document "Mayotte 2025, an ambition for the Republic" identifies learning regional languages at school as a powerful vehicle for academic success. We therefore have a long history of fighting for the recognition of our languages and their real use in school. This bill formalizes the field work that has been under way for several years. As Mahorese elected officials, we have been anxious to be vigilant about this text, because we feel that we are particularly concerned. With this in mind, the amendment by my colleague Senator Abdullah Hassani, adopted at first reading, gave the Shimaoré and Kibushi – regional languages but also, I would say, mother tongues very widely practiced in Mayotte – an equal recognition to that of the other regional languages of France and overseas. So we move forward, but step by step. Indeed, Article 2b of the draft law ignores the plurilingualism that certain territories, including Guyana and Mayotte, can proudly claim. In Mayotte, there are not one but two regional languages: shimaoré and kibushi. I had therefore worked on drafting an amendment to Article 2b, which we have just voted on, to give certain territories the opportunity to propose immersive teaching of one or more regional languages, without prejudice to the objective of a good knowledge of the French language. Indeed, it is possible for the college, in certain sections, to learn at the same time three or four languages, some of which are even said to be dead. It must be noted that the need to take into account plurilingualism has not been retained in this text, and I am sincerely sorry for that.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u362	Please close, Mrs. Ali!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u363	I am confident that the Government will correct the shooting. Minister, I am counting on you to find a detailed solution to this oversight...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u364	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u365	Thank you, Mrs. Ali.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u366	...and I have no doubt that you will succeed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u367	Mr Julien Dive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u368	I have not spoken so far and I have not tabled any amendments on this text, because I want to go quickly in order to comply with the agenda set by the Liberties and Territories Group. But I would like to take a few seconds to speak of the picard, a language to which I am very attached, as many colleagues on all benches are to their own regional language. [[Applause on a few benches of the LR group]] Unlike other languages, Picard is considered by UNESCO to be "seriously in danger". Since 1999, no studies have been carried out to combat the disappearance of languages. Picard is not a distortion of French or an old French: it is a language in its own right. However, it does not appear on the lists referred to by Marc Le Fur, which raises the question of the preservation of this heritage element, which contributes to enriching the French language. Indeed, many French words come from regional and minority languages, including picard. [[Same movements]] In 1999, France signed the European Charter for Regional or Minority Languages, but never ratified it. Are you ready, Minister, to defend its ratification?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u369	I have before me a long series of amendments which can be put to a joint debate and which seek to re-establish the Article. Mr Didier Le Gac has the floor to support Amendment No. 271.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u370	Like the rapporteur and many of my colleagues, I would like the National Assembly to vote in accordance with this text. That is why I am withdrawing my amendment, although I would like to speak after the presentation of the other amendments under joint discussion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u371	Of the sixteen identical amendments, Nos 1 and following, I have a request for a public vote before the Socialist and Related Group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u372	It aims to restore the school package for the teaching of regional languages, which was twice voted by the Senate. Indeed, I recall that prior to the consideration of this bill, honourable senators approved this provision as a first in the discussion of the bill for a school of trust, known as the Blanquer Act. On that occasion, Senator Maryvonne Blondin had defended an amendment that we had drafted to make the school package compulsory for children to travel to a municipality close to where they reside for a regional language to be taught to them. The school package would only apply if the child's municipality of residence did not offer any such education, whether they were initiation courses, bilingual sections or immersive learning. How many children would be involved? For information, the total would be 0.02% of students. In areas where education is widespread, schools in a large number of municipalities have already developed educational opportunities. In this case, the mayors will not have to pay this charge, which amounts to about 150 euros per child, which is therefore not, in any case, excessive. On the contrary, this measure seems to encourage mayors to reflect on the teaching of regional languages. It should be borne in mind that, according to article L. 212-8 of the Education Code, school fees already exist for children enrolled in the public sector. There was no shielding at the time of the adoption of this provision in 2015 on the occasion of the vote on the NOTRE law – the law on the new territorial organization of the Republic – and I expect that the same will be true with regard to its expansion to the private sector. Thanks to the school pass, mayors are aware of the importance of regional languages and are taking initiatives to teach them in their communes. That is the whole purpose of this section 2d, the provisions of which have, I repeat, been validated twice by the Senate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u373	I call Mr Le Fur to support Amendment No. 3.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u374	As Paul Molac has said, it is absolutely necessary to go back to the text adopted by the Senate and therefore to cancel Mrs Bannier's amendment adopted in committee. The Republicans are very attached to the freedom of parents. We believe that they should be able to choose the type of education provided to their children. If they wish them to have access to regional languages, they must have access to them. However, it turns out that not all municipalities offer this training and that this will be the case – logically – for a long time to come. Parents must therefore be able to attend school in another municipality. If they then make the choice of public education, there is no problem, because funding is already foreseen. I also welcome this development, which is due to your initiative, Minister. On the other hand, if they choose a private institution under contract, whether religious or not, they do not receive financial assistance, which creates a distortion to the detriment of the freedom of educational choice of parents and children, to which we are philosophically attached. In coherence with other struggles we have waged in the past, we want to offer this choice to families. Paul Molac said, if the municipality of residence has an offer to teach regional languages, the school pass does not apply – it is normal. But in the many municipalities that do not offer this education, and do not do so for a long time, parents must receive the necessary funding to enrol their children elsewhere, both in a public institution and in a private, religious or non-denominational institution.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u375	Mr Jean-Claude Bouchet has the floor to support Amendment No. 13.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u376	It aims to clarify the conditions for the financial participation of municipalities for the learning of regional languages. As we have been saying since this morning, the restoration of Article 2d is important for the defence of regional languages and our roots.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u377	Amendments Nos 36 by Mr Patrick Hetzel and 67 by Mr Xavier Breton are being defended. Mr Frédéric Reiss, in support of Amendment No. 76, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u378	National education allows for the learning of regional languages, sometimes in a sustained manner depending on the regions in which they are practiced: Minister, you recalled this very well in your opening speech. Private education and associations take an active part in the teaching of regional languages. In Alsace and in the Mosellan country, this teaching has existed since 1992, but there is a decrease in the learning of dialect, the accents of which are so tasty. One of the reasons for this is the lack of payment of school fees for children attending private schools. As a former president of a friendly mayor, I have often dealt with this issue of tuition funding and it must be recognized that negotiations are often rough between the mayors of the communes of residence and those of the communes in which the regional languages are taught. The Senate has acted in a trans-partisan manner on this issue, going beyond a simple voluntary contribution to the tuition fees of the children concerned. It may also be assumed that the final adoption of Article 2d will encourage some mayors to develop the teaching of regional languages in their communes. For a historic vote to take place today, it must be re-established.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u379	Amendment No 143 by Mr Raphaël Schellenberger is being defended. Mr Erwan Balanant, in support of Amendment No. 150, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u380	That has been said, these amendments are intended to go back to the wording adopted by the Senate and to vote in accordance with the text. That being said, I hear the concerns raised here and there, including by colleagues, with regard to this article. I would like to lift them and stress that it is the result of a commitment made by the Prime Minister to the Bretons. On that occasion, a prerequisite had been laid down: that of seizing the elected representatives of the communes of Brittany and the CTAP – the territorial conference of public action – in order to obtain their consent. That was done, and they agreed. Some are concerned that the adoption of this provision would impose an obligation on mayors. Mayors are already subject to a number of legal obligations. If we really want to defend immersive schools and preserve our regional languages, I do not see why the representatives of the nation we are would not impose this obligation on mayors. I therefore hope that we will reinstate the clause as it was adopted by honourable senators. The latter are nevertheless representatives of local elected officials...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u381	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u382	... and, as such, have certainly weighed the implications of this provision. They are in constant contact with local elected officials. Then let's go! To preserve our regional languages, it is necessary at some point to finance them. Let's stop being afraid of doing it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u383	We'll talk about it again during the examination of the 4D law!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u384	Mr Yannick Kerlogot has the floor to support Amendment No. 152.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u385	Ladies and gentlemen, I invite you to mobilize and gather, so that we may witness a historic vote. For it to take place, as we have said and repeated, we must vote in accordance with the wording of the Senate. Mr. As the Senate has said, it is the Senate that has taken the initiative to ask mayors to take on some form of responsibility. Let's be clear, not all mayors will be involved. Only those communes of residence whose schools do not teach regional languages will have to pay a school fee to a private school under contract with another municipality.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u386	It's public money going to private school!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u387	We ask them to pay for a package that we believe is legitimate. When I looked at the bill for a school of trust, the minister, whom I welcome, had asked that we move towards a responsibility of mayors in the area of regional languages. However, the terms "voluntary contribution" had been retained in the Joint Joint Committee. They were deleted by the Senate during the first reading of this text. Indeed, one year after the enactment of the Blanquer Act, it can be seen that the voluntary contribution does not work.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u388	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u389	The Diwan school network expected to raise EUR 1 million in this way, but it received only EUR 130000. Rather than relying on assisted jobs, it would be preferable to recruit permanent staff to provide this education. The school pass would allow it. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] The cost of this measure is a legitimate concern for some municipalities, which must be reassured. The French private immersive network consists of 133 schools; There are 10,000 students in primary school, 6,000 in primary school and 4000 in kindergarten. The cost of schooling amounts to about 500 euros per pupil in primary school and about 1300 euros per pupil in kindergarten, since ATSEM – specialized territorial agents of nursery schools must be paid. In this connection, I would point out that mayors are already obliged to pay this school fee to private schools in their communes.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u390	Thank you for closing, Congressman.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u391	They are therefore simply asked to do the same for outside institutions offering a regional language and welcoming children from their communes.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u392	Mrs Claudia Rouaux has the floor to support Amendment No. 153.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u393	As we know, it will be absolutely impossible, at least in the short term, to create offers to teach regional languages in each municipality. If we want to increase the number of schools that do it, we must attract students and provide for proper functioning. The law of 26 July 2019 for a school of trust has generated some 150 disputes – which is not negligible – in the region of Brittany alone, which will have to be settled with the State services. Indeed, this law suffers from ambiguity which complicates its application. Even mayors who wish to contribute financially to the teaching of regional languages in a commune other than their own are not sure of being able to do so. The school package should therefore be introduced.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u394	I call Mr Michel Castellani to support Amendment No. 154.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u395	I call on all Members to support these amendments, because the provision they contain is essential to ensure the sustainability of immersive schools.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u396	Mrs Laurence Trastour-Isnart has the floor to support Amendment No. 179.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u397	The adoption of these amendments, aimed at restoring Article 2d, would effectively give families the freedom to choose the education of their children, but also to support the teaching of regional languages. Mayors would therefore have to choose between providing financial assistance or offering regional language instruction in their communes. I therefore believe it is essential to re-establish this article.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u398	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 214.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u399	Without further prolonging the debate, I want to reiterate my commitment to the freedom of families to choose the kind of education they want for their children. I also want a vote in accordance with this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u400	Mr Vincent Bru, in support of Amendment No. 230, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u401	The central challenge is to ensure that parents are free to choose regional language teaching. Where such education does not exist in the territory of their commune, they enrol their children in private schools under contract of association located in neighbouring communes. It is normal that there should be financial solidarity between the municipalities. That is why the article is very important.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u402	I call Mr Thierry Benoit to support Amendment No. 259.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u403	It reflects the position of the UDI-I group in favour of the restoration of the article, a vote in accordance with the text of the Senate, the freedom of choice of parents and a clear regulatory and legal framework for the participation of municipalities in school fees in the absence of a bilingual school in their territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u404	Amendment No 304 by Mrs Karine Lebon is being defended. What is the committee's opinion on these amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u405	[[Applause on various benches]] These identical amendments were tabled by deputies from eight groups of the National Assembly. I am very supportive of this, and I would like to point out that if eight different groups propose to re-establish the article, it is that there is a large enough gathering for us to do so.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u406	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u407	This is an important amendment, each of which must measure the scope and risks. First of all, it entails the creation of a significant compulsory expenditure, hence the very majority hostility expressed by the associations of mayors, including because of the precedents that this measure could create. This compulsory expenditure is a financial issue which is also an issue of autonomy of the communes: it is, from this point of view, a breach of the balances resulting from the Falloux law and the Goblet law with, again, a risk of creating precedents. Then we have to see what school landscape we risk creating if we go too far. I thank several MPs for recognizing the progress that the law represented for a school of trust; It was precisely the fruit of a balance. But if we push things further, we will see public communal schools competed by a neighbouring village, with classes that will close to the public school and a mayor forced to pay, in addition, for this phenomenon. This will be the double penalty for many small communes and for the school of the Republic. I do not have a good role, because my position seems to be against the development of regional languages, but I have told you on other occasions how open I am on the subject. It is my duty to alert national representation to the chain consequences of this measure, especially since it will be articulated with those you have previously adopted. Let's have a sense of balance. On the subject, every time we make a breakthrough, we have the impression that it's not enough. We have taken a balanced position; that there have been some difficulties in the application of the law in recent times does not commit to an amendment. Moreover, the compulsory nature of the expenditure would probably not be compatible with the Constitution and would create very concrete problems in several municipalities. For all of us who defend rural schools and territorial balances, the risk is far too high. Request for withdrawal; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u408	Mr Christophe Castaner has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u409	As you said, Mr Molac: it is a matter, through the compulsory school pass, of ensuring that a municipality, which may have a school that works well, but does not offer the possibility of teaching in a regional language, pays the financing of the private school of the commune-centre. We know how it actually works. I was mayor of a commune very attached to Provençal culture, with a particularly important culture of felibre, which is dear to me, and I know that the commune-centre, Forcalquier in this case, had to assume the principle of parity of financing of the private school, the Jeanne-d'Arc school. On the other hand, the neighbouring communes, which accounted for about half of the population of the Jeanne-d'Arc school, did not have to finance it. With this amendment, we question two fundamental principles. Firstly, the financing of private schools: with the extension of the obligation to pay to municipalities which have a school offer, they will have to undergo the choice, moreover perfectly legitimate, of parents who want to enrol their child in a private school in the neighbouring municipality. The second thing we miss is the mayors' freedom to organise school accompaniment or not according to their will. Yet they are free not to participate financially, because the law – everyone has the history of financing private schools – does not make this participation compulsory. [[Applause on the banks of the LaREM group. – Mr Sylvain WasermanetM. the chairman of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, alsoapplause]] [[Same movements]] [[Same moves. – MM. HubertWulfrancetJean-PaulDufrègnealsoapplaud]] With this amendment, which puts in place a school pass, based on the commendable intention to defend regional languages, we question the free administration of municipalities and the financing of private schools. Tomorrow, some private schools will be able to decide to offer training in the regional language, which will put all mayors of neighbouring municipalities under an obligation to contribute to the financing of the private school and thus lead to the impoverishment of their own commune, and perhaps tomorrow the closure of classes. That is why I urge you to be very careful. The desire to defend regional languages should not lead to questioning certain fundamentals of public school.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u410	Mr. Jimmy Pahun has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u411	There is a need to distinguish between private and private regional-language schools: there are private schools in all municipalities, but this is not the case for private regional-language schools. I will take the example of my little corner of communes, Port Louis, Locmiquélic and Riantec. There is a Diwan immersion school in Riantec that does a fantastic job for students; The parents will sell kig ha farz on the market, there is a real commitment for the school. It turns out that the mayor of Port Louis does not want to take over the school package. What a shame! This immersion school may eventually find itself in difficulty, because two or three students in Port Louis can no longer benefit from the school pass. So, please: it's an investment, but what other investment is it that makes it possible to give children a full and complete education thanks to the educational movement and the parents, and above all to stay in the municipality where one resides instead of having to go to the municipality opposite? (Applause from the LaREM and Dem groups)
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u412	Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u413	It's a sensitive subject where every word can make a spark. We have said this by the voice of Bastien Lachaud: the so-called regional languages must continue to live in our country because they are part of the rich heritage. So that's not the point. But we are also committed to their teaching within the framework of the public service, with the creation of public posts. The danger to public schools, as I have often told you, Minister of National Education, is competition from the private sector, because the successive laws – I am thinking of the Debré Act of 1959, but also of the Carle Act that we are talking about today – have produced the paradox of public funding for private schools. However, all sociological studies show that the private school now accommodates children from higher social categories, while those from the most disadvantaged categories are concentrated in public schools.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u414	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u415	[[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups as well as on some benches of the LaREM group]] If we accept the expansion of the Carle Act proposed by these amendments, we will participate, whether we like it or not, in the public funding of those who leave public school. It's a double-edged sword. In the face of a public school that is deteriorating and concentrates on difficulties, we will fund the choice of parents who, sometimes for good reasons, but also for bad reasons, say: "I will put my kid elsewhere, where the pedagogical project is more coherent, where the parents are more motivated". In concrete terms – I have already reproached you, Minister – the reception of children from the age of three, which I philosophically supported, has led a commune like mine, the most indebted of the Seine-Saint-Denis department, to have to pay an additional 150,000 euros each year to a private confessional school. This makes 650,000 euros on a mandate, while the municipality has the biggest difficulties in financing the public school. That is what we risk doing here, with a multiplied effect. Colleague Molac, I know your convictions on the subject, but beware of what you create, perhaps without realizing it: it is a bad service to the Republic and to the regional languages.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u416	Mr Sylvain Waserman has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u417	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] [[Same movements]] I have heard of the freedom of choice of parents in defending the amendments. Of course, parents have freedom of choice, but that's not what we're talking about here. What we are talking about is the financing of the school package by the mayors and its compulsory or non-compulsory nature. Personally, I say we have to trust the mayors. Let's not give them the obligation to finance, let's trust them! Goddamn it, I didn't think that one day, in this Chamber, I would tell the Freedom and Territory Group to trust the mayors! What are you afraid of? Do not impose this obligation on mayors. Mayors are responsible, they know how to make decisions. Let's trust the territories. Personally, I am very attached to regional languages, but I am also very attached to the freedom of mayors, and I do not want us to create a new obligation for them from Paris. I'm calling to trust them. Let's not make this school package an obligation!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u418	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u419	[[Mr. Jean-Paul Dufrègne applauds]] The Communist Group is fully reflected in the initial remarks made by the Minister. This is a matter of principle for us, which is part of our historical position on this matter. This debate must not revive any war, any school war of a religious nature, or any school war of a linguistic nature. We consider that the balanced position sought by the department on this text is, or would have been, in the right direction. The article takes an additional step which, unfortunately in our view, is further unbalanced, even if everyone on these benches finds themselves around the defence and promotion of regional languages. That is why we will vote against the reinstatement of the article.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u420	Mr Didier Le Gac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u421	I hear some people pointing to the burden that such an extension of the package would put on the municipalities and the risk that it would put on the schools of some of them. I would therefore like to remind Mr Blanquer that in March 2019, during the examination of the bill for a school of trust, he indicated that he would not oppose the votes of the CTAP, whose weight and role were strengthened by the laws MAPTAM – the law of modernization of territorial public action and affirmation of the metropolises – and NOTRE, which make it a place for consultation and decision-making among elected officials. The PATCs bring together the president of the regional council, the presidents of the departmental councils and representatives of the mayors for each category of communes, small and large. Let us trust the elect! Even if I invite you to vote in favour of these identical amendments and the re-establishment of the Senate text, we could have imagined that the extension of the school package would have been subject to an agreement by the CSAP. In Brittany, the elected representatives of this conference debated it: some were against, for the same reasons as you, but the vote was finally in favour. [[Applause on many benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Finally, I would like to point out – this should touch some of the speakers here – that in February 2019, when the then Prime Minister went to Rennes to sign the public action contract for Brittany, he proposed to open the discussion on the expansion of the school package by consulting with the CTAP and had undertaken, on behalf of the State, to respect the decisions of the latter.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u422	Mrs Geraldine Bannier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u423	It was I who tabled the amendment to delete the article in committee. I relied on my experience as mayor of a municipality of less than 700 inhabitants with a single, private school – but this one could very well have been public, as the former mayor had planned. Mayors of such municipalities are accustomed to the obligation to pay when a student is enrolled in the public. With this measure, would they also be obliged to make a contribution in cases where a student would enrol in a private school in a neighbouring municipality offering the teaching of a regional language, such as gallo at home? It is not very clear: in committee, the rapporteur said that no, that an agreement would be necessary, and I now hear the opposite. This is a first uncertainty. And then who will decide, in case of disagreement? The prefect? This is not specified in the reinstatement amendments, the text of which remains unclear. In any case, think of the municipalities that are fighting to keep their students. Only forty-six are schooled in mine and we want to keep their school alive. Of course, students must be able to study a regional language outside; As a result of my journey, I am very attached to the old French, the old languages and the regional languages, but how can I force the municipalities to pay to lose their students? It would be a double penalty.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u424	She's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u425	I put to the vote identical amendments Nos 1, 3, 13, 36, 67, 76, 143, 150, 152, 153, 154, 179, 214, 230, 259 and 304.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u426	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 256 Number of votes cast 232 Absolute majority 117 For adoption 127 Against 105
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u427	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-04-08-O1235.u428	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Further to the discussion of the proposed law on the heritage protection of regional languages and their promotion; Proposal for a law giving the right to a free and chosen end of life; Proposal for a law on the statutory development of the Corsican community in order to combat the phenomenon of land and real estate speculation on the island; Bill to ensure the ethical respect of organ donation by our partners; Proposal for a law on the controlled legalization of the production, sale and consumption of cannabis; Proposal for an organic law limiting the use of retroactive tax provisions; Proposal for a law on the integration of sustainable development objectives; Proposal for a constitutional law on the recognition of the blank vote for the presidential election. The meeting is adjourned.
