ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u1	The next item is the discussion at third reading, under the simplified procedure, pursuant to Rule 103 of the Rules of Procedure, of the bill, as amended by the Senate, at second reading, aimed at improving the cash flow of associations (No. 1329, 4263). As no amendments have been made to this text, I shall put it to the vote under Rule 106 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u2	The next item is the discussion at third reading, under the simplified procedure, under Rule 103 of the Rules of Procedure, of the bill, as amended by the Senate, at second reading, in favour of associative engagement (No. 848, 4235). As no amendments have been made to this text, I shall put it to the vote under Rule 106 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u3	[[Applause on all benches]] Ladies and gentlemen, in my personal capacity, I thank you for this vote. Being, together with some of our colleagues, of whom Sophie Mette is presenting here, at the origin of this text, prepared with some 100 associations from my constituency of Strasbourg and Illkirch-Graffenstaden, I cannot represent to you the indescribable happiness that I have to see today adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u4	The next item is the debate on the proposal for a law by Mr Grégory Besson-Moreau and others to protect farmers' remuneration (No 4134, 4266).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u5	Mr Grégory Besson-Moreau, rapporteur of the Committee on Economic Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u6	We all know the figures: a suicide mortality rate of 20% higher than that of the general population, nearly two suicides a day and 19% of farmers without income or deficits in 2017. Behind these figures, each of us can put names, faces, stories: those of women and men who, in our territories, loved their jobs, gave everything for him, worked tirelessly and ended up broken, crushed by debts and an exhausting pace of work. It is, of course, to them that we all think of by starting the discussion of this text, beyond figures and statistics. The farmer's profession is the most beautiful and the most necessary of all; It's also the most demanding. The question of the fair remuneration of farmers is an issue of social justice and human dignity. It is also a strategic issue because it is about our food sovereignty, whose crisis has reminded us of the price. At a time when the renewal of generations is uncertain in agriculture, how can we convince young people to embark on these trades that we so much need, if they do not live in them properly? Finally, how can we claim that the transition of our agriculture, which we all want, is possible without fair remuneration? We need to be consistent. The rise in range, the greatest respect for the environment and animal welfare, all this is right, but all this has a cost. The agriculture model we want for tomorrow depends on our ability to guarantee an income that allows our producers to make these investments. I say this forcefully: the fair remuneration of farmers is the most important issue in agriculture today. It underlies everything else: food sovereignty, the renewal of generations, the transition to more virtuous production models. It is the condition which determines, individually, the future of our producers and, collectively, the future of our society. We have carried this conviction since the beginning of the legislature, with Stéphane Travert, Jean-Baptiste Moreau, Monique Limon, Sophie Beaudouin-Hubiere and many of you, colleagues. It was at the heart of the law for the balance of trade relations in the agricultural and food sector and a healthy, sustainable and accessible diet, known as the EGALIM Act. The distribution of wealth within the food chain has been the focus of our attention in the framework of monitoring work, as in that of the commission of inquiry that I had the honour of leading under the chairmanship of my friend Thierry Benoit in 2019. This concern, I would like to stress, has also been at the heart of the work of all the groups that make up our assembly, and we have often, on their initiative, studied bills from minority or opposition groups on this issue. We did not always agree, but it must be recognized that on this sensitive issue of remuneration, we can all find ourselves. As I have noted in committee and in the preparation of this meeting, we will probably not always agree again, but I welcome the work done together to table joint amendments on important issues and the confidence that many of you have shown me by withdrawing their amendments in committee and reviewing them today. I will go even further by affirming my confidence in the senators with whom I have been able to exchange, and in our ability to work in good intelligence to perfect a text that I believe is ambitious and to enable it to succeed very quickly. Finally, I welcome and thank the Minister for Agriculture and Food for his commitment, the quality of his listening and his extreme availability. During the examination of the text in committee, I proposed a simple method: we must proceed step by step, without haste and always maintaining an overall balance of the text. We want to protect farmers' remuneration, but it is not about setting up distributors against industrialists, or the other way around. Our food sovereignty depends on each of the three links in the chain, and we must do everything we can to foster "cooperative relations", according to the expression dear to Thierry Benoit. This delicate search for balance invites all of us, including me, to measure and temperance. Step by step, then! The bill that I introduced was a first step. Contrary to what we were able to read in the press, it is not a matter of replaying the game of EGALIM or correcting its features or making an EGALIM 2, but of giving the law the means to be effective and speeding things up. EGALIM had a huge ambition and has only been in force for three years: we have not even evaluated it yet, and not all of its devices have yet entered into the morals to fully play their role. The original bill had a deliberately synthetic and precise scheme. Article 1 is a paradigm shift: we propose to make written and multi-year contracts of at least three years the standard for contracting. We thus reverse the logic that prevails today. Article 2 deals with contracts between processors and distributors. We are creating two essential and innovative provisions to protect farmers' remuneration. The first is transparency on the costs of agricultural raw materials, which become non-negotiable; The second is the mandatory inclusion in contracts of an automatic price revision clause in the event of changes in the cost of agricultural raw materials. Article 3 extends the strengthening of the Ombudsman's powers which we voted for under EALIM by setting up a Committee for the Settlement of Agricultural Trade Disputes (CRDCA), which will deliberate publicly, may issue periodic injunctions and, if the situation so requires, take precautionary measures. Article 4 on labelling ensures compatibility between French and European law, and must encourage processors to further indicate the origin of the ingredients they use. The work in committee has led to major progress: we have adopted eighty-seven amendments by both the majority and the opposition. The figures bear witness to the unanimity I referred to in the introduction. We have thus strengthened the indicators, devoting them as the basis of price determination and making their publication mandatory. We have also banned the revision or renegotiation clauses resulting from the competitive environment, which present so many difficulties in the dairy sector. We have introduced an independent third-party mechanism to ensure the transparency and non-negotiability of agricultural raw materials – some consider this to be complex and I am ready to simplify it; He has the merit of respecting the freedom of the actors and the secrecy of business, but he is, I agree, perfectable. We have further changed the composition of the Dispute Resolution Committee to ensure a better balance. Finally, we have made a political act concerning the misleading use of the French flag or national symbols. These advances are important. However, many of you would like to go further in a number of areas, particularly with regard to the "price tunnel" mechanism for certain sectors, such as the beef sector, the management of MDDs, the distributor's brands, and the greater protection of the supplier's price vis-à-vis the distributor, as well as transparency of the cost of services, by valuing the business plan commonly referred to as the "line line". I made a commitment to rework these questions for the session.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u7	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u8	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – MM. Paul Molac and Antoine Herth also applaud]] Here we go! We have worked together with the actors in the sectors concerned, and I believe that we will make significant progress today. The question of farmers' remuneration is indeed part of the much wider framework of the balance of trade relations between the various links of the whole chain. In the name of this balance, which has now been flouted, I believe that some progress is needed, particularly in the areas of DRM, non-discrimination in tariffs and line-to-line. In the name of the same balance, however, I will oppose certain amendments which could create a new imbalance which would, this time, be in opposition to large-scale distribution, such as the abolition or strict supervision of logistical penalties. Remuneration of farmers is my priority, but we also need agri-food manufacturers and distributors, and if a rebalancing of relations is now necessary, it must not harm any of the players because, ultimately, it is our citizens and our farmers who would pay the price. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, this law is not just a step: it marks a turning point in our fight for the fair remuneration of farmers. They proved to us once again, during the crisis, how much their work was at the heart of our sovereignty. Today, with this law, we establish the just and worthy recognition of their courage, commitment and passion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u9	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u10	The next speaker is the Minister for Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u11	We are gathered today to discuss a crucial issue, which makes France the identity: our agriculture and the future of our farmers. Indeed, there is no strong nation without strong agriculture. The ability of our farmers to generate income depends on our food sovereignty. Now, as the crisis revealed in the open, it has eroded over time. The ability of our farmers to generate income also depends on the future of our territories, particularly rural ones, our landscapes and our way of life. Finally, the ability of our farmers to generate income depends on their ability to finance and invest in the various transitions. As the rapporteur pointed out, from the beginning of the parliamentary term, we have worked together on the subject of farmers' remuneration. As such, I would like to acknowledge the important parliamentary work that has been done on this issue since 2018. First of all, the General Food States (EGA), organised at the initiative of Minister Stéphane Travert, led to the EGALIM law, of which you were, dear Jean-Baptiste Moreau, the rapporteur. Since then, follow-up work has been carried out tirelessly and strenuously, led by the rapporteur, Mr Grégory, and the Member of Parliament Thierry Benoit, dear Thierry, whom I would like to thank very much here, because they have demonstrated how much the relations between the links between industry and large-scale distribution had to be taken into account in order to improve the incomes of farmers. This is a central, even crucial, issue, because half of our farmers will retire over the next ten years, and in many fields succession needs a clear signal. Capital too, because we are experiencing a change of era, which calls for new paradigms. Agriculture has probably never had to face so many challenges at the same time: resource management, climate change, meeting the sometimes contradictory expectations of increasingly demanding consumers about the quality and origin of what they eat and the agricultural practices it covers, without always agreeing to pay for the quality they demand. This change of era is also an opportunity to find a new meaning to the values of life that the crisis has revealed: better food for better protection, care; recognize that, behind every agricultural product, there is a woman or a man who rises every morning, tirelessly, to feed his fellow citizens. In short, to give value to a quality diet. And it is because they are very important that our debates give rise to a very strong expectation: be sure that our sitting will be followed, throughout the territory. We must therefore respond to that expectation. The challenges that I mentioned were already at the heart of the general food states, which, I would like to stress, had resulted in a rare consensus to deal with these challenges together – farmers, industrialists, distributors, traders, restorers, consumers and civil society. Since 2018, tools have been introduced, such as the EGALIM law or sector plans. Whatever some say, they have produced results: a new state of mind has been established, inter-branch work has been consolidated, agricultural upwelling has become more structured – more than fifty new producer organisations (OPs) or protected designations of origin (PDOs) have emerged since 2018 – and new practices have developed between the different links in the food chain, such as the signing of tripartite contracts or the direct involvement of the consumer in promoting more equitable approaches. At the same time, quality chains have developed and upstream prices have been stabilized in some sectors. But we must note, as the parliamentary follow-up work has shown, but also the results of the mission which, together with my colleague Agnès Pannier-Runacher, we entrusted to Serge Papin last autumn, that we must go further and finish what we have begun. The march forward of the price, particularly by taking into account in the contracts the indicators relating to production costs alongside other indicators, is not yet sufficient, far from it: the organisation of the upstream in OP to weigh against the downstream must be strengthened because, although the situation has improved, the price war has not disappeared. It persists while it is contradictory with the pursuit of our agricultural model, based on quality. However, quality must be paid: we must therefore act, and act quickly, so that the next trade negotiations can be different from those we have just experienced; so that we move from distrust to trust, from price wars to the transparency of margins for the benefit of farmers. The proposal for a law provides for measures that can change the situation, by relying on the long term through the multi-annuality of contracts, by strengthening the consideration of the indicators of production costs, by making agricultural raw materials non-negotiable and indexing their prices in order to automate upward or downward developments, but also by increasing transparency – including on the origin of products –, by developing ways to combat food devalorisation, and by creating an effective dispute settlement body. Before we begin the debate, let me, ladies and gentlemen, share with you some thoughts that will guide the positions that I stand for. First of all, my main compass will be the impact of the measures we will take on farmers' remuneration: a strong, targeted, effective law is needed that has a real impact on farmers' incomes. That is the objective of the bill. As far as agricultural uphill is concerned, I know that you have already made progress in committee, by strengthening Article 1. We will have to try, if possible, to go even further, while, of course, remaining within the limits of the legal framework, which was referred to in particular in the opinions delivered by the Council of State under the EGALIM Act. But I am not unaware – and parliamentary work has shown – that farmers' incomes also depend on what is happening downstream of the food chain, especially between industry and distribution, even if, and we must remember, this is not the only outlet for our production. Nor do I forget that the agri-food industry is the first French industrial sector, both in terms of value and in terms of number of jobs: it accounts for 23% of our gross domestic product and the territories. I also remember that distribution brands and, more generally, commerce are also important providers of jobs and value: more than 750,000 people work in the nine major retail brands in France. I know that the subject of relations between industry and large-scale distribution is sensitive in our country, but let us never forget that, in history, the victim of this game of dupes is first and foremost the farmer, in particular because of lack of confidence: the players of the large-scale distribution fight against the price increases demanded by the industry, because they have no proof that this increase is the result of a better remuneration of the farmer; However, without any certainty of this increase, the industrialist does not take the risk of paying the farmer more. The bill should therefore make it possible to get out of this game of fools and to move from mistrust to trust; to restore confidence through transparency, because transparency is trust. This will also be achieved by placing agricultural raw material at the heart of the negotiations and making it non-negotiable: no contract must be signed without the buyer having wondered about the agricultural raw material and the men and women who produced it. Trade must come from the farmer: this is also the way forward. On this subject, I say clearly, we must look coldly at reality and move forward with reason, without manicheism, dogmatism or bias, but with pragmatism and rigour – the search for the right balance, always. Yes, commercial relations are violent relations of force between the actors, and the state must not be afraid to enter into this balance of power, this has in any case been my position and that of my colleague Agnès Pannier-Runacher, whom I would like to thank here. However, we need to move from manual pilotage based on public action and controls to automatic pilotage, by laying down rules that the State will guarantee: this is what is called regulation. So yes, we must regulate and, as announced by the Head of State, amend the Law of Modernisation of the Economy (LME), which certainly went too far and led to unregulated brutal competition. I know that the issue of tariff non-discrimination and, more broadly, tariff protection has been referred back to the sitting. We will discuss it, but be careful: we must regulate to protect, without stifling, however, because regulation does not mean trade administration. We must therefore strike the right balance between, on the one hand, maintaining healthy and beneficial competition between the players – particularly the most important ones, who have, whatever they say, the means to adapt to it – and, on the other hand, limiting the excesses generated by imbalances in power relations: strengthening does not mean stopping the negotiations or returning to practices of old that have proved their worth. In addition, I can count on you to find the right balance between simplicity and efficiency. I have heard criticisms of the bill, and your work in committee has already allowed some to be answered. We will also have to rely on the experiences of the pioneers, those who today play the game – because there are some! Some companies have already anticipated the measures provided for in the bill and are waiting for our debate in order to be able to implement them definitively. There is also a subject that we talk little about, but that will certainly be in all heads: the consequences of this law on inflation. Those who believe that making raw material non-negotiable and regulating power relations by further protecting the tariff would risk increasing food prices were already saying the same thing about the Loss Resale Threshold (LRS): yet their fears have not materialized. And then, what inflation are we talking about? The first thing you need is to stop deflation. According to the Trade Negotiations Observatory, it was still 0.3% this year on non-perishable branded products. On the other hand, let us also make it clear that we must not confuse social policy with agricultural policy: those who think that social policy can be done on the back of farmers' remuneration are wrong, they take us straight into the wall!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u12	All right! You're absolutely right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u13	As Minister for City and Housing for three years, I have worked as hard as possible to establish social policies. This requires courage, and the Government is demonstrating this, particularly with the removal of the housing tax. But agricultural policy is also an economic policy: these two aspects must be taken into account and progressed in parallel, with determination. Finally, this law will not be able to do everything without a profound change at European level, because certain subjects, such as labelling the origin of products, depend on European discussions. So when it comes to labelling, we will go as far as we can with this bill. For the rest, be sure that I will fight at European level. You see it in my remarks, ladies and gentlemen, in my view, this bill is profoundly innovative and responds to an imperative need. It reshapes trade relations within the food chain, placing the farmer in its heart. [[Applause on the panels of the Commission and on the benches of the LaREM group]] In our discussions, two strong directions will guide my positions: improving the income of our farmers, so that they can be paid for the quality of their products, and maintaining the right balance between industry and trade – this is very important. Let us not forget that ensuring the remuneration of our farmers is ultimately a matter of ensuring our agricultural model based on quality and, therefore, our food sovereignty and the sustainability of the agri-food chain, since all its links are interdependent. Ensuring the remuneration of our farmers therefore means ensuring the protection of the French consumer and our citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u14	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u15	In the general debate, Mr Dominique Potier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u16	[[Smile]] When I begin my consideration of this bill, I have one small regret: I did not introduce an amendment on the title, which we are usually discussing at the end of the debate. I would have proposed that the text be called "EGALIM 1.5", or "EGALIM 2" – the minister himself having used this hashtag – even if the rapporteur keeps reminding us that the bill only seeks to protect farmers' remuneration. Dear Grégory Besson-Moreau, your enthusiasm, I confess, I felt it when we examined the law on transparency, the fight against corruption and the modernization of economic life, known as Sapin 2. But I regret it, because this text was not enough: it then took the EGALIM law, which itself failed in part. So here we are at a new date. And I believe that, rather than rewriting the story by saying that it all started with the EGAs, it would have been fairer, politically, to recall that since 2012, we have been working hard, and perhaps with insufficient energy, I concede it, to learn from the brutality of the LME law, adopted in 2008 under the presidency of Nicolas Sarkozy, and to restore a more balanced balance of power in trade negotiations between producers, processors and distributors, on food and agri-food goods. The bill is therefore part of a legislative continuum that navigates between two pitfalls: an ultraliberalism that no one professes here, and an administered economy that would ruin the capacity for innovation, agility and diversity of our economic actors, which no one wants. We are therefore looking for a close balance. But as long as we do not question the LME law – a clear and precise challenge, and not only in the speeches of intent, on the eve of the presidential election – the enormous distortion of competition that we know will persist and, with it, a face-to-face between an oligarchy – a cartel, one might say – of buyers, represented by a handful of purchasing centres, the processing sector which is concentrated in a monopoly in certain sectors, such as milk and meat, and 300,000 to 400,000 under-organized producers. Add to this brutal distortion of competition the possibility for the agri-food economy, for large distribution, to obtain supplies in a market that has the dimensions of the world, while our producers are anchored in a territory, subject to its pedoclimatic constraints and to particularly exemplary legislation in the field of social and environmental law. Even if we can only congratulate ourselves on this last point, the distortions it causes with the outside world, including in relation to the European Union market, are too important for us to negate them. We must therefore call into question the LME, work tirelessly to reform the common market organisations – my colleague in the European Parliament, Éric Andrieu, is working hard on this, particularly in the context of the trialogue for the development of the common agricultural policy, the CAP, but also better organising the internal market through volume regulation. These are prospects that must bring us together, along with the reform of the AME, state medical aid. The Socialist and related group will make its humble contribution to this bill and will not fail to rejoice at the convergences, nor to express itself about the differences, which are actually two in number. On the other hand, we agree, as the rapporteur had the excellent idea of taking up some of our initiatives and combining them in the form of joint amendments; Although he did so late, I am convinced that we will be able to discuss it in a good state of mind. Two points of disagreement with this text, therefore, for our group, the first being the sharing of value. The "remunerascore" – even if it would have to find another name – provided for in Article 2a is intended to create a record of the appropriate price for the producer, but it remains too corporatist, too limited. The parliamentary work carried out on the occasion of the future Business Growth and Transformation Act (CAPTE) had led us to imagine processes to trace the sharing of the value of a product throughout the agri-food chain, not just at the producer stage. I would like to make myself the spokesperson for the poorest farmers and peasants, who are most burdened by unfair competition, but also for those who transport our milk or meat, who work in slaughterhouses, who hold the crates of supermarkets and sometimes earn 300 times less than the leaders of these same large distribution plants. The price paid by the consumer covers the sharing of the value of the finished product. This is the indicator of the future: we will work on it. [[Mr. André Chassaigne applauds]] Second point: to our great regret, the scope of the text did not allow to promote producer associations and their organisations, able, in large basins, to manage volumes at the same time as prices, in relation to the cooperative world. Your national strategic plan, Minister, also does not provide sufficient operational programs to support these producer association organizations. Only this rebalancing of forces will put an end to the dissociation of social and economic dimensions and will lead us to the happy path of the social economy. There is no food inflation, but an investment in quality for food for all and for the planet.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u17	Mr Luc Lamirault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u18	Before 2018, "quality food" was "healthy" and the famous five fruits and vegetables – I forgot the three dairy products – to be consumed every day. The General Food States have given this concept of product quality a new dimension: the actors have put forward the production, the work of farmers, the origin, the necessary proximity to the consumer. The EGALIM law has made it possible to make real progress in the field of collective restoration, whether it is the responsibility of companies or local authorities, and to draw up the quality of the products. The promotion of labels, the purchase of more products from a rational, organic or local agriculture, has led to an increase in these productions; In short, a double "Kiss Cool" effect! On the other hand, this law will not have been enough to improve the remuneration of farmers, particularly in the context of trade relations. The bill before us is therefore welcome. After fruitful discussions in the Committee on Economic Affairs, we continue to examine this essential text with a view to valuing the hard work of those who feed us. I would like to pay tribute to Messrs. Besson-Moreau and Benoit for the work they have done over the past two years, as well as to stress the transparency of the reflection encouraged by our rapporteur, Mr Besson-Moreau. As you recalled in committee, this bill is not an "EGALIM 2"; But we humbly acknowledge that the EGALIM law had not gone far enough. Improving, always improving, is a vision of the legislative work dear to the Action Group. It is rare for a single quinquennium to see a law passed, evaluated, and the work delivered on the trade, proposed measures, in order to try to keep all the promises made in 2018. In essence, the articles in this text aim to ensure that our farmers can finally receive the fair price that will allow them to live from their work. The aim is to rebalance the trade relations between the links in the agri-food chain, to respond to the problems posed by the application of the EGALIM law in relations between producers, industry and distributors. Article 1 thus provides for a compulsory and multi-annual contract ; Article 2, traceability of the price of the agricultural raw material throughout the chain, including indexing clauses and the non-renegotiability of that price. Section 3 strengthens mediation by establishing an agricultural trade dispute resolution committee. Article 4 provides details on the labelling of the origin of food products; Article 5 prohibits promotional operations aimed at selling food overproduction, unless the profession concerned agrees. These provisions go in the right direction: they contribute to the ethical character of our model and will build confidence between the actors. Our group supports this approach and, along with other colleagues, will propose amendments to go even further. We will thus defend the line-to-line identification and remuneration of each service, the testing of a tunnel indexation clause in contracts for the sale of agricultural products, the prohibition of tariff discrimination of food suppliers in the absence of real counterparts. We will stress the importance of price and cost of production indicators in contracts between farmers and their first buyer; We will highlight the role of inter-professions in setting these indicators. We also want to clarify the length of negotiations between manufacturers and distributors with a view to agreeing on general conditions of sale: it must be long enough to allow the price of the raw material to be taken into account. We will emphasize the importance of including the brands of distributors in this bill. Some of our Members will also be defending amendments aimed, on the contrary, at excluding products whose prices are not significantly affected by fluctuations in the prices of agricultural raw materials. Finally, it is important to stress the need for a more comprehensive reflection on the origin of food products and to call for a discussion at European level in order to complete this text. [[Applause on the panel benches – Antoine Herth also applauds]] You will have understood this: the Action Together group will enthusiastically support this bill, which will allow a real step forward in order to meet the promises of the EGALIM law and to effectively improve the remuneration of our farmers. I would also like to personally thank my colleagues for agreeing to my intervention on their behalf.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u19	Mr Thierry Benoit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u20	The excellent Thierry Benoit!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u21	I am pleased to meet you to talk about agriculture, farmers and their incomes. As a preamble and for the French who listen to us, let us recall that we are about to consider a bill, that is, a text that is the result of a parliamentary initiative and necessarily less broad, more circumscribed than a bill, which is part of the government initiative. In this regard, I thank the minister for his consent to the tabling of the bill by a Member of Parliament, Gregory Besson-Moreau. It is also necessary to recall the context: in the phase of exiting a health crisis, the legislative timetable is forced. But the expectations of farmers are strong. The LME, adopted in 2008 to contain consumer prices, has in fact prompted the distribution sector to organize the price war lightly: it is the agricultural producers who have since paid for it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u22	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u23	The question is therefore both simple and complicated, otherwise it would have been settled a long time ago. The LME, the Law of 29 January 1993 on the prevention of corruption and the transparency of economic life and public procedures – known as the Sapin Law – and the Law of 9 December 2016 on transparency, the fight against corruption and the modernisation of economic life – known as the Sapin Law 2 – and the General Food States, the EGALIM Law, dear to Stéphane Travert, then Minister of Agriculture, have dealt with this in turn. Today, if we are in a small number in the Chamber, we are here among Members who are specialists in these matters. I had the chance to chair a committee of inquiry in 2019 whose rapporteur was Gregory Besson-Moreau: it is a source of satisfaction for me to find in his bill the outcome of the commission's work. Let us say at the outset: the first link in the chain, that is, the negotiations between producers and industrialists for the processing of products, has been taken into account in the text, as well as in the work of the committee. On the other hand, Minister, we still have a lot to do about the second link – negotiations between manufacturers and distributors. [[Paul Molac applauds]] The committee of inquiry had formulated forty-one proposals, adopted unanimously by representatives of all parliamentary groups, welcomed by farmers and industry, to which the distribution sector had found little to say. These proposals directly inspired the amendments which I will support on behalf of the UDI Group and which are aimed, in particular, at making distributors' brands subject to the same regime as national marks in trade negotiations. It is also necessary to identify the bad practices of large distribution and purchasing centres: negotiations up to deflation, abusive de-references, not always real international services, penalties of all kinds. We must put all this in order. Let us address these points, let us move forward, particularly with regard to international services, since the commission of inquiry has discovered, beyond the plants which organize the grouping on purchase, international service centres, hosted in Switzerland or Belgium for obvious reasons: we need to know more about their role, the nature of the services they offer and, above all, their rates. As for the logistical penalties agreed in the negotiations between the industrialists and the distributors, it is not normal that they sometimes amount to hundreds of thousands of euros for delay in delivery or imperfection of the products. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups. – MM. Roland Lescure, Chairman of the Committee on Economic Affairs, Antoine Herth and Paul Molac also applaud]] Our proposals therefore aim to establish more collaborative – and non-cooperative – trade negotiations, dear Grégory Besson-Moreau; In any case, they must no longer be in the order of confrontation. Our sole objective is to achieve a fair, real sharing of the value created by all actors, including farmers, who today do not earn from their work an income worthy of the efforts they provide.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u24	Mr Paul Molac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u25	In June 2018, in front of 700 Breton elected and invited guests gathered in Quimper, the President of the Republic declared: "Our farmers want to be able to live worthy of the price paid. On this point, we fully agree. He added that the future EGALIM law, then under discussion in Parliament, would allow "a profound change in the structure of our agriculture and transformation." There, on the other hand, our views diverge: this law has failed to change the balance of power. It must be noted that the EGALIM Act has not rebalanced the balance of power between large-scale distribution and agri-food industries and has therefore not increased the income of our farmers. Three years after his adoption, his failure is obvious. The results of the 2021 negotiations are without appeal. After eight years of deflation, value destruction continues, with a 0.3% decline in producer prices. While farmers' earnings have remained low, it is clear that the productivity gains that agriculture has achieved have in fact been captured by others – I am of course thinking of large-scale distribution. Finally, agricultural prices have been falling steadily since the 1960s. One indicator shows this: in the 1960s, the share of food was one third of income, while it is estimated that it is only 11% to 14% today. Agricultural prices have therefore fallen particularly, and I agree with the view expressed earlier by the minister: we must not pursue a social policy on the backs of farmers. The law was therefore not able to structure the market. If a bill necessarily has a limited scope of action – it has been recalled – it still proposes to review a few small things that are actually major. I shall start by regretting: we would have liked the agreements to be tripartite, because a number of processors are particularly concerned: they fear being caught between the hammer and the anvil – farmers on the one hand, the big distribution on the other – and to make the cost of an increase in the price paid to farmers. It is certainly a step forward, but I doubt that it is sufficient, which is why, in my view, tripartite agreements would have been preferable. As for the integration of the brands that you call of your wishes, dear Thierry Benoît, it seems obvious to me. The EGALIM law had so far only reached one fifth of farmers' incomes; This is obviously not enough. By integrating the distribution brands, we are extending its scope to another sector, in line with the wishes expressed by farmers at our various meetings. In the long run, all brands should be concerned because leaving a part of them aside does not allow for an overall view. The question of producer organisations also seems to me to be important. Lactalis, for example, negotiates with as many as 17 producer organisations. If they retain this freedom of organisation, I do not see how farmers could have any weight in the face of a big company like this. This is an obvious problem, even if it does not fall within the scope of this text. There is little more than the members of cooperatives who negotiate with a single OP; This is not the case for private companies. I then have some questions about the agricultural trade dispute resolution committee. How will it work? It seems to me to have read that he would have the possibility of imposing penalties: I would like to have an explanation of the legal conditions for their implementation. The issue of remuneration is a must, and the plight of farmers is great. However, we are facing a particularly important challenge, namely the renewal of generations of farmers. Most of them are relatively old, and they find it difficult to find successors, in a difficult context of land concentration and the challenge of the family farm model.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u26	Thank you for concluding, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u27	Our group will of course participate in the discussion and support Thierry Benoit's proposals, which seem to be in the right direction. We hope that together we will find an agreement: improving the remuneration of farmers is a necessity for the vitality of our countryside and for this profession – one of the most beautiful in my opinion – which is simply to feed men and women.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u28	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u29	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u30	[[Smile on several benches of the LaREM group]] Engine! It's turning!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u31	A short time ago, I met a cadre of the sugar industry, a lobbyist, who gave me the following picture: in the 2000s, sugar, and therefore beet, were brought into the globalised world, with the disappearance of customs taxes. It was negotiated with the World Trade Organization (WTO). At the same time, the European Union published a study to show that liberalisation was the solution. Quotas have jumped, leading to overproduction and price collapse. Now, basically, it is Brazil that sets prices at the global level and, in fact, the price of beet has plunged: it has been divided by two in two years. Last year, four sweets closed: Abbeville's, at my house in the Somme, but also Toury's, Bourdon's and Cagny's. The only response of Europe and the Government to the economic crisis and deregulation is to add chemical deregulation with the return of neonicotinoids. For reasons of competition and competitiveness, there is justification. It's pretty much the same story for cereals, meat and milk. In the face of this global and global scourge, what have you proposed for the last two years with the EGALIM 1 law? DIY, a legislative gas plant based on contracts and framework agreements, price indicators and mediation. Unsurprisingly, these sparadraps don't hold. As it is a fiasco, what are you proposing today with this bill "EGALIM 1.5", as my colleague Dominique Potier called it? You're baffling on DIY – with a little improvement, since you're talking now, timidly, about power relations and constraints – you're recolmatizing it! Why? Because you're turning around the pot of globalization. Because you don't dare catch the free trade bull by the horns. You're going to ask me what I'm proposing. Now you know what I've been proposing for four years now...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u32	The end of free trade!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u33	I propose regulating agricultural markets, with production and import quotas, multiplier coefficients and, above all, floor prices, so that markets are more stable and farmers are better paid. It's common sense – I don't know if he's a peasant – and it's obvious. To this common sense, Mr rapporteur, you have opposed your exaggerations and sophistry in committee. You shouted loudly, accusing me of reinventing the kolkhozes and wanting the red star to float on our countryside. But these instruments, such as quotas and floor prices, have been used by Brussels for decades, without the European Union being similar to the Soviet Union. You told me, with a taste of paradox, that the floor price would quickly become a ceiling.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u34	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u35	I'd be curious to see what your house looks like, but you're obviously neither an architect nor a mason! Cédric Villani told you in his own way and style: in mathematics, we speak of minor and majorant, and it would be nice to see that it is claimed that both come systematically to be confused. Even our colleague farmer from the Dem group, Nicolas Turquois, told you: the notions of floor and ceiling can make sense. They protect the producer from excessive price changes. In committee, I therefore hammered: "floor prices, floor prices, floor prices. After this debate, a member of Parliament who was a walker and a good connoisseur of agricultural markets laughed at me, telling me to stop and reminding me that the European Union prohibited the prices of flooring. If the debate were there, it would already be more frank. I told him that I didn't care and that we had to disobey. He laughed and added that the WTO, above it, also prohibited it! I replied that I was making more fun of it, that it was necessary to disobey it, that it would provoke disputes whose settlement before the courts would take years, but that, in the meantime, we would see the party that the peasants would take. Your colleague concluded, calmed down, that I was not wrong in substance...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u36	We want names!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u37	... and that the system had operated for years with minimum quotas and prices, which didn't bother anyone. This is the battle that deserves to be waged for agriculture, but also for industry, for our health and for our entire planet. I would remind you that, according to Nicolas Hulot, globalization and free trade treaties are the cause of all environmental problems. I also remind you of the words, quickly forgotten, made by the President of the Republic last year: "Delegating our food, our protection [...] to others is a madness. » The battle we have to wage is that of organized deglobalization, a chosen deglobalization, not through other agreements and treaties – not through wars and conflicts, with people made mad with hatred, mad with anger, mad to be impoverished and mad to not be listened to. This is the scenario you should write today: that of an agricultural exception, just as we have a cultural exception, for the land and its fruits to come out of free trade.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u38	Cut!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u39	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u40	The level will rise!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u41	Today we are debating a bill whose ambition is to better protect farmers' remuneration – an implicit admission of the failure of the EGALIM law,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u42	Let's not exaggerate!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u43	... which we had many to foresee, stressing that it would not allow a lasting rebalancing of the distribution of value added to the benefit of producers. Far from countering the alien domination of downstream actors, large distribution and major transnational groups in the lead, this text was in fact continuing along the path laid down since 2008 by the law of modernization of the economy: trade liberalization and deregulation of commercial activities under the pretext of rejecting this pelt, the galley of administered agriculture. The observation is now unrelenting: peasant income has continued to deteriorate for the benefit of large groups of agro-industry and distribution. [[Mr François Ruffin warmly applauds]] [[Same movements]] Last March, the report of the mediation and conciliation mission on the review of the EGALIM law and the need for better remuneration for the agricultural value chain made recommendations which form the basis of the text before us. This report stressed in particular that we are always in a balance of forces "inversely proportional to the concentration of operators. The strongest and best organised, in this case large distribution and large companies, are the winners of the current system", while farmers remain "the weak link in the chain". The effects of the increase in the loss resale threshold are illustrated by the fact that, in return for the increase, industrialists and large retailers had committed themselves to moderate their margins so that prices for farmers would be more remunerative. Fantasy of a company of Bisounours, from which would have disappeared the addiction to sniffer dividends like white powder, addiction as indecent as destructive! The UFC-Que Choosing showed that this promise was not fulfilled. For example, in the case of UHT milk, while the farmer's price has decreased by 5 % since 2017, the distributor's margin has increased by 8 %; At the end of the day, the agricultural price has fallen, but consumers pay 4% more! Admittedly, the increase in the loss resale threshold has put an end to the deflationary spiral in stores, but price construction is still not working: while production costs are rising, prices paid to producers are stagnating or even decreasing. If the margins are restored, it is for the benefit of the only large distribution, in contrast to what would result from the multiplier coefficient that I have often called for. Jean Jaurès declared at the rostrum of the National Assembly on July 3, 1897: "It is towards the financial wasteful, to the taquine and avarous bourgeois that goes [...] the wealth of fields, vineyards and woods". I think his remarks are still relevant. Despite the will of its authors, which I am not questioning, this bill will not, in my view, correct the serious imbalances in trade relations. Will it allow, however, to reverse the current dynamics? There is room for doubt. It certainly carries some interesting measures, such as the establishment of a committee for the settlement of agricultural trade disputes or the removal of the price of agricultural raw materials from the framework of tariff negotiations between industrialists and distributors. But these advances will be insufficient: they will not prevent the imposition of low prices on farmers' suppliers in order to increase the margins of the rest of the industry. The text also ignores the effective strengthening of the inclusion of cost-of-production indicators in contracts, which would promote a real construction of the forward-looking price. It is true that production indicators are mentioned, but once again reference is made to inter-occupations, whereas a much more important role should be given to the Observatoire de la formation des prix et des margins des produits alimentaires (OFPM) and FranceAgriMer. Finally, the scope of the text is too narrow to open up new perspectives to the agricultural world. The regulation of production volumes at European level and the fight against unfair competition are decisive issues if we are to better protect peasant income and, above all, enable it to make significant progress. What would the members of the GDR Group say would be the avenues to be explored? Prohibit the purchase of agricultural products below the cost of production in France; extending the concept of unfairly low prices to imported products; incorporate farmers' remuneration into the legislative definition of the cost of production; defining price tunnels which would fluctuate according to the evolution of production costs. [[Mr. Dominique Potier applauds]] Allowing farmers to live decently is an essential lever for the development and vitality of our rural areas and for the success of the transition to a more environmentally friendly agriculture. We fear that the text will remain a missed opportunity in this regard.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u44	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u45	Mrs. Sophie Beaudouin-Hubiere has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u46	Following the bill to raise the lowest agricultural pensions last week, we have come together again to legislate on farmers' incomes. Grégory Besson-Moreau's bill is in keeping with the EGALIM law and is specifically designed to give concrete effect to and generalize the construction of prices in front. With this in mind, Article 1 makes written and multi-annual contracts the rule rather than the exception, in order to ensure that farmers are more visible on their income in the medium term. In order to protect them from price volatility and abusive revisions, contracts will also regulate price revision mechanisms, which will now have to rely on production costs. Article 2 supplements this provision by excluding agricultural raw materials from trade negotiations between manufacturers and distributors. Here we seek to frame the balance of power in trade relations. I want to stress one point: prices must no longer be taxed by four purchasing centres which weigh 80% of the food market but are offered by our farmers and correlated with their production costs.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u47	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u48	That is the objective of the amendment which I will defend on behalf of the LaREM Group, aimed at experimenting with the price tunnel in certain sectors, i.e. regulating price revision. Written in collaboration with representatives of the beef industry, it will put an end to the uncertainty faced by many farmers who regularly see prices down, without any explanation – I have a very special thought for the Limousin cattle farmers in Haute-Vienne. The proposed law takes note of a certain climate in the commercial relations between farmers, industrialists and distributors. Indeed, it must be noted that some economic actors, in particular distributors, did not want to take advantage of the tools and devices created in the EGALIM law to better redistribute value. These tools, such as production cost indicators, were nevertheless favoured by the field. In this respect, the evaluation of the increase in the RPS and the framework for promotions says a long way: it is 600 million euros of margin that have been released by the distributors and yet, not a single euro has gone into the farmers' pocket, look for the mistake. I would also like to reply to some colleagues that the bill would constitute an admission of failure of the EGALIM Act. I would like to recall here some elements of context...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u49	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u50	...because some seem to lack memory: the deplorable situation in which many of our farmers find themselves is not due to the EGALIM law. The diagnosis we had made in the General Food States was nothing new, but the treatments were innovative; the diagnosis had already been established on the occasion of the Sapin 2 law, voted under the previous majority. It must be noted that it did not produce the expected effects on the ground, and you said so, Mr. Potier. The deflationary spiral in which our farmers are caught is not a thing of the past. This vicious mechanism is the result of the 2008 LME law: the majority at the time believed that the elimination of tariff non-discrimination would put an end to the practice of rear margins. Today, everyone knows what about the so-called disappearance of the rear margins. Dear Dominique Potier, I think I remember that, during the review of the EGALIM law, you admitted that you did not have the courage to reform the LME law and you criticized us for not having it either. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Well, there we are! Thanks to the original text and amendments, we intend to restore non-discrimination in tariffs and thus undo what, in the LME law, has completely unbalanced the balance of power between farmers and distributors. Through this measure, we also protect processors-SMEs and, therefore, we again allow value creation across the entire food chain, including farmers. In addition, the LaREM Group will present an amendment to require the distributor to commit to a volume within the framework of the MDD. I am proud to belong to a majority who is responsible, as long as the account is not for our farmers.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u51	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u52	On the other hand, I must express my disappointment: during the EGAs and in the EGALIM law, we made the bet of trust. However, this confidence has not been fully honoured, and this is simply because of certain actors who have not wanted to seize the mechanisms established; Worse, some of them even tried to bypass them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u53	That's the capitalist system!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u54	[[Mr. Erwan Balanant applauds]] We are therefore obliged to introduce coercion through legislation. It takes a certain amount of courage to defend this bill. It will also be necessary to explain that we will not always be able to eat better for ever cheaper, without signing the killing of our agricultural model. We have to assume that we want to put an end to the deflation that kills our farmers and undermines our food sovereignty.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u55	She's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u56	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] The LaREM Group obviously supports this bill, and I hope, of course, that my colleagues on all the benches will do the same.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u57	Mr Julien Dive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u58	During the troubled months that we have just passed in terms of health and economics, several forgotten evidences have remembered us, which are all lessons to be learned. The first is the absolute need to assume and secure our food sovereignty in order to protect our people and to have access to a healthy, quality, environmentally friendly diet. Second, our agri-food sectors – production, of course, but also transformation – must become a national economic force again. The affirmation of our food sovereignty must, of course, be reflected in national agricultural policies, such as the NAP CAP – a national strategic plan for the implementation of the common agricultural policy – or the plant protein plan. But none of this can be achieved without our farmers, and if we do not fight effectively against what discourages vocations. France's food sovereignty cannot be restored if French farmers do not receive the right price for their production, if we do not put an end, for good, to the bleeding they are suffering and who see a third of them give themselves an income equivalent to half of an AHR per month by working seven days a week.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u59	That's the reality!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u60	Four years ago, the observation had already been made, the warning given. Months of consultation, workshops, a bill would solve everything, and patatras: the EGALIM mountain gave birth to a mouse for French agriculture, forcing you to rafistol it every year with bills. As the profession says, parliamentarians on all sides say, you yourself, minister, I quote: "This is not a complete success. So I could make a bad mind and say that as we approach an electoral deadline of a national scale,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u61	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u62	... the majority meticulously elaborates a parade to the failure of the EGALIM law which could be criticized, which reproaches him in the middle of the campaign of the one who built his electoral programme for agriculture on this law. [[Mr. Dominique Potier laughs]] I won't. Let us avoid repeating the same mistakes: the role of oppositions is not to contest for pleasure or for posture...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u63	Depends on which one!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u64	...but to enrich a project, to propose a complementary and different look in order to better structure it. The original sin of the EGALIM law was an excess of condescendence. As evidence, this morning we are looking at the provisions that the opposition members, including the Republican Group, but also the majority, had defended through amendments in 2018 but that had been rejected.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u65	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u66	There is nothing worse than letting our fellow citizens concerned think that everything will be solved by a new law if it ultimately misses its target. We must therefore ask ourselves the following question: after the adoption of the bill, what blind spots will remain for farmers' compensation? I note two of them, the first concerning the structuring of the networks. They still need to be accompanied in order to compete better against buyers – for example, for the beef industry, the contract will be the result of the negotiations on minced meat, but not on noble parts. We have tabled amendments, drawn up with Members from the majority, which are intended to introduce a price tunnel that takes into account the cost of production indicators. We don't want to see a farmer sell at a loss. In this respect, it was important for the committee to adopt, after a wise opinion by the rapporteur, my amendment according to which the production cost indicators apply to all the volumes covered by the contract, thus correcting an imprecise EGALIM law. Second blind spot, the role of the consumer. Fortunately, the bill targets the three parties involved in a negotiation – the producer, the industrialist and the distributor – but it completely forgets the consumer. Yet, as we know very well, the trigger of a purchase is the price, and therefore the remuneration. You doubtless consider that I say here a banality but it deserves to be recalled: everything has a value, therefore a price; When you pay the price, you get it for your money.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u67	It's Fernand Raynaud!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u68	It is therefore up to consumers to re-approve not only the act of purchase but also the act of paying. Mr rapporteur, you were fiercely opposed, during the hearings, to the idea of a "remunerascore". I congratulate Members from all sides, from your group and also from mine, for initiating the debate by tabling a series of amendments, which have now included the provision in the text. Improving and protecting the remuneration of French farmers also means protecting their production from misleading practices involving food products whose ingredients are not all French. This is the subject of one of my amendments adopted in committee, now Rule 3a. Let us hope that it remains as it is, because it is also a way to reaffirm our food sovereignty. [[Anne-Laure Blin applauds]] French agriculture is at a crossroads, that of its transition. She can only succeed if she can afford it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u69	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u70	Mrs Michèle Crouzet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u71	What economic, agricultural and agri-food model do we want for our country? That is the question that we have to answer by debating this bill to protect farmers' remuneration. This is a crucial issue because our farmers suffer from an absolutely unbearable downgrading: where many French people have been able to benefit from the social elevator and improve their quality and standard of living, our farmers see their incomes stagnating, or even falling, to the point of not being able to live in dignity of their profession, which is often a passion and requires unique expertise and know-how that are passed on from generation to generation. This situation, which we all know in our constituencies, in our families, can no longer be sustained. If our primary ambition is to secure our food sovereignty, we must work better with the agricultural world and with farmers themselves to bridge the gap and inequalities, because they are the ones who ultimately enable us to support ourselves. Yes, the EGALIM Act has made some progress: it has made it possible to ensure a better distribution of value on the agri-food chain or to promote a healthy, safe, sustainable and accessible diet for all. But today we need to go much further, because the situation of farmers has not necessarily improved since. On the contrary, it has even been severely weakened by the health and economic crisis that we are experiencing, due to a prolonged lack of opportunities for restoration and an increase in the cost of raw materials. This crisis reminded us above all of the fundamental nature of food sovereignty and the crucial role played by all the links in the food chain, starting with farmers. The Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats Group therefore welcomes this proposal for a law which aims to radically reform the modalities of exchange and contracting between all the links in the agricultural chain. This is a sovereignty issue because, if we want a more resilient agri-food system capable of overcoming the next economic, health or environmental crisis, we must definitely put an end to the imbalances between farmers, processors and distributors. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the rapporteur and all the colleagues who have spoken in this direction throughout the discussion of the text in the Committee on Economic Affairs and the Minister for listening to it. This text is therefore central: it will instill more confidence and transparency in a system so far relatively opaque. The multi-year written contract between a producer and his first buyer will benefit farmers. It will provide them with medium-term visibility, which will make it easier for them to invest in the sustainable transformation and modernization of their farms. Our group is even defending a more ambitious position, with the experiment of a "price tunnel" clause, which could be useful for certain sectors, such as beef and veal. It goes further to put an end to opacity through traceability of the price of agricultural raw materials across the chain of negotiations. Here again, we propose that you take several additional steps in favour of greater transparency: by prohibiting the discrimination of the price of food suppliers without any real consideration; increasing the transparency of the price paid by the supplier to distributors; preventing buyers from disproportionately penalising delivery delays. This bill is also bold because it makes the consumer a full player in the fair remuneration of producers. These include the indication of the source of agricultural and food products or the "remunerascore" that will show the link between the actual price paid to producers and the cost of production indicator. In order not to deceive these "consumers", the Dem group will also propose you to better define the terms "responsible" or "ethical" which multiply in the shelves, without any specifications. By tracing all these avenues for improvement, our group's objective is to propose concrete solutions to pay our farmers better and to better support French consumers in their quest for readability, quality and proximity. Our colleague Jimmy Pahun proposes to complete the text by referring to fishery and aquaculture products, which must not be forgotten.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u72	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u73	[[Applause on the panel and the benches of the Dem Group]] Ladies and gentlemen, aware of the problems faced by the agricultural world, our group, as you will have understood, will support the guidelines of this bill and will vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u74	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u75	I now call, in the text of the committee, the articles of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u76	Mr Dominique Potier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u77	First of all, I would like to welcome the fact that in committee, together with other colleagues, we have adopted an important amendment on the weighting of indicators, which was a missing link on which we will continue to work. Secondly, I would like to draw your attention to a risk that Thierry Benoit has pointed out: suppliers could find themselves caught in the grip between large-scale distribution and producers. That is why, in the EGALIM Act, we proposed an amendment opening the possibility for producers, processors and distributors to sign multi-year tripartite agreements. We were, I admit, unable to make it an obligation, because we were blocked by the constraints of the Constitution and European law. Nevertheless, I would like us to go further in this direction: how, through taxation and other means, do we favour the use of such conventions in the law? Let us remember that they allow producers, especially those who are organized as cooperatives, to protect the industrial apparatus guaranteeing the competitiveness of French products on the world market. Finally, my dear colleague from the majority – and I believe this is a presidential debate – you are telling us that it is enough to restore non-discrimination in tariffs and that everything will be settled. I invite you to be more modest: until a balance of forces is achieved between the different parties, this principle of non-discrimination will not be enough to restore what was destroyed by the LME.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u78	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u79	For us, this Article 1e r is in the right direction since it makes it compulsory to sign a multi-annual contract. We will adopt it, but we do not consider it a sufficient tool. Indeed, we see the limits: it already exists in the dairy sector but does not prevent problems on buying prices – we know that the situation of dairy farmers is quite catastrophic. We will therefore be defending amendments which, unsurprisingly, concern the threshold of resale at a loss, the floor prices and other mechanisms. Some say they were disappointed, after making the bet of trust in the EGALIM 1 law. But what do they think? That the economy is the kingdom of the Bisounours, as my colleague André Chassaigne would say? That the Mulliez and the Arnaults will kindly kiss the farmers and give them gifts? When considering the EGALIM 1 law, at the time of the discussion of the "Nutella" amendment on the prohibition of promotions, I had already made a mockery of your tendency to believe that the money raised by the large distribution would go to farmers or cashiers, and I had insisted that it would be returned to shareholders in the form of dividends. And what happened? It was given to shareholders in the form of dividends – I must say to my great sadness because I would prefer the world to be wonderful. I think you should learn from it, beyond this text on agricultural prices. Should we trust the Mulliez to repatriate all the money they put in Luxembourg? Is it necessary to trust Bernard Arnault to relocate his own subsidiaries established in tax havens? Should we trust Amazon? Let's stop with that confidence! For the great economic leaders, therefore, use the same constraint that you do not hesitate to exert on the French.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u80	Mrs Anne-Laure Blin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u81	Minister, a few months ago, when I arrived in this House, I echoed with you the farmers in my constituency who complained that they were not seeing the beneficial effects of the EGALIM law that you had claimed. A few days ago, I met with farmers in my department of Maine-et-Loire, and I confirm that expectations remain very high: they want the legislator to set rules so that they can finally live from their work because what they perceive today is not up to their daily efforts. Hence the importance of this discussion which we have again. Our committee meetings, however, cause me to fear that this text will not meet the expectations expressed on the ground. The effects of the indicators introduced by the EGALIM Act have been incomplete, due to abuse and circumvention. And I regret that we have not been able to raise the issue of the MDD in committee. Let us hope that we will discuss it during our discussions in session. As far as Article 1 is concerned, I would like to reiterate how vital the indicators of production costs are, in particular because inter-branch organisations are places of exchange and consensus between the various links in the sectors. That is why, as legislators, we must be firm and provide for the obligation for interprofessions to disseminate these indicators to operators, so as to maintain a balance and avoid farmers being left behind again. We understand that, particularly as a result of next year's legislative renewal, you have only a short time: so take the opportunity of this day of debate to send strong signals to farmers and give them guarantees about the income they derive from their daily work.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u82	We come to the amendments. Mr Thierry Benoit has the floor to support Amendment No. 229.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u83	In the discussions on the EGALIM law, we called for interbranch companies to build indicators of production costs, which would serve as a reference in trade negotiations. In the Committee of Inquiry into the situation and practices of large-scale distribution and its groupings in their commercial relations with suppliers, we, together with Grégory Besson-Moreau, referred to the creation of an index of agricultural and food prices. This is the purpose of this amendment, in which we propose that such an index be published monthly by the National Institute of Statistics and Economic Studies (INSEE). It would be sufficiently strong and objective to take into account the evolution of the costs of agricultural and non-agricultural raw materials, the cost of energy, labour costs and the costs of corporate social responsibility (CSR). It would be modelled on the national building index, BT01, published monthly by INSEE, which is a reference for the sector's players and appears in contracts for the construction of individual houses or in contracts for the sale of dwellings.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u84	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u85	It will be a request for withdrawal or an unfavorable opinion, dear Thierry Benoit. I would remind you that the text already provides for an automatic indexation clause for agricultural raw materials. Why agricultural materials? Because the agricultural world is in distress and our priority must be the remuneration of farmers – which obviously does not mean that the industrial world or the world of large distribution are also not experiencing difficulties. In the Committee of Inquiry, I did mention the possibility of working on an index modelled on that of the building in order to develop industrial raw materials. However, in the absence of a real impact study and of overall work on the industrial world, it seems to me difficult to do so. It should be noted that in the price of a product processed by the agri-food industry, the share of agricultural raw material is 10%. Legislating on the remaining 90% could cause collateral damage that we do not control. I think we need to move forward instead on non-discrimination on tariffs or on line-to-line remuneration, through amendments specifically targeting the agri-food industry.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u86	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u87	Mr Benoit, I will have the same opinion as the rapporteur. I will go even further: we must continue the work we have undertaken with the Observatory for the Formation of Food Prices and Margins, in order to review the scope of the elements it takes into account. If I may, Mr President, I would also like to return to two points. Ms. Blin and Mr. Dive each referred to the political context.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u88	Let's be honest!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u89	[[MM. Jimmy Pahun and Erwan Balanant applaud]] [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] It would be a shame, very unfortunate, to enter into such considerations. I believe – and it is a fact shared by the members of the follow-up mission of the commission of inquiry on mass distribution, chaired by Thierry Benoit – that it is very much in the honor of this majority to put the work back on the profession in full legislature. I imagine that many would have simply said, "Don't worry, it's going to work, what we've done so far is extraordinary." Experience tells us that few governments in politics, after having passed a law, decide to have it evaluated, including by groups that do not belong to the presidential majority, and which push MPs to take it back, which is also in a very tight timetable. It is, moreover, to Parliament's credit. Secondly, I believe that I have finally understood the difference between the members of the Communist Party and those of the unsuspecting France, a difference which has not yet seemed clear to me. For many reasons, I still have great pleasure in taking part in discussions of ideas with the former, while I have much more difficulty in interacting with the latter. I now know why: the Communist Party considers that confidence does not exclude control, a principle that I share, while, for France, unsubstantiated, it is control that prevails, because distrust is a challenge. That's what you said, Mr. Ruffin. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Sophie Beaudouin-Hubiere provided an excellent summary of the situation in the gallery. Fortunately, the life of a society is based on the trust it gives to the actors. Why should mistrust prevail, Mr. Ruffin? I think that would be deeply unfortunate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u90	Mr Paul Molac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u91	Our colleague Thierry Benoit raises a real subject, which the actors on the ground regularly echo: it is difficult to agree in the negotiations on production costs, and farmers sometimes find themselves with "home" production costs defined by the industrialists, which are well below the cost price. More clarity and transparency are therefore needed to avoid fanciful estimates, which arrange some and tilt the balance on one side rather than the other.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u92	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u93	You should, Minister, revise your vision of the political ladder: everyone knows how close I am to the Communist Party to the extent that I have also been elected under this label, and I have great sympathy for most of the members of this group.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u94	Me too!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u95	But it doesn't matter. To get back to the bottom, ask President Chassaigne if he feels infinite confidence in the groups Auchan, Carrefour or Casino, since it is of them that we are talking about.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u96	Neither do we, we don't trust!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u97	You say you've made the bet of trust, but you've done it to actors who have been crushing farmers for decades! You set up small sales contracts and wager that, to show that they are nice, these actors will stand around the table and cuddle the farmers. No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u98	That's not what we're saying!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u99	[[Mrs Bénédicte Taurine applauds]] Minister, just like the Government and the Walkers, your trust is variable in geometry! During the period of covid -19, you did not hesitate to force the French, who had to fill papers to get out, who could not move more than one kilometer from home or for more than one hour a day! On the other hand, when it comes to economic actors – LVMH, for example, which has subsidiaries in tax havens – you are the bet of trust! When it comes to Amazon, Carrefour, Casino or Auchan, you bet on trust! We saw the result! Of course, more constraints and controls are needed. The fawns won't turn into vegetarians!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u100	Mr François Ruffin has the floor to support Amendment No. 334.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u101	Let us go back to more ground-to-earth considerations, since this is a simple question of vocabulary: this amendment is intended to replace the word "delivered" with the word "distributed". Our fear is that products that would not be delivered to French territory but simply distributed will escape the law. It is a matter of locking up the process so that large groups – including Leclerc, whose purchasing centre, Eurelec Trading, is based in Brussels – cannot circumvent the application of French law, as appears to be feared by the Directorate-General for Competition, Consumer Affairs and Fraud Prevention (DGCCRF), which raided Leclerc's headquarters in February 2018, in particular to carry out checks on this subject. We would therefore like to strengthen the current wording in order to prevent distribution groups from escaping the law that you want to introduce.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u102	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u103	It seems to me that you have not correctly read Article 1, which deals exclusively with first-sales contracts, i.e. between the farmer and the first processor; There is no mention of distributors. Therefore, this will be an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u104	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u105	I understand the meaning of your amendment, but I would add that the word "delivered" was precisely used in this text because it refers to the European regulation on the common organisation of the markets in agricultural products, which uses the word "delivery" in Article 168. And, as the rapporteur has pointed out, it is precisely because we want to control all distributed products and the distribution platform – even if it is located elsewhere than in France, within Europe – that we rely on Article 168 of the European Regulation and we use the terms. The effect of your amendment would therefore, in my view, be counterproductive, and the best solution is to remain with the current wording of the article.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u106	Mrs Martine Leguille-Balloy has the floor to support Amendment No. 470.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u107	It is intended to supplement paragraph 4 with the words "to ensure fair remuneration for producers". As I have already had the opportunity to point out, this is not a fioriture or a simple change in syntax. At present, it is impossible to know what is meant by "unreasonably low" prices, since the agricultural sector has accepted prices so low that there are no longer any references in this regard. I therefore propose a definition that refers to article 23 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, on which judges would rely, in their free assessment, in the event of conflicts – I do not say, like Mr Ruffin, that we must be in control all the time, but we know that trust does not exclude control or judicial conflicts, unfortunately. We therefore need this definition which, in the doctrine, would specify that the right price is one which is estimated on the basis of elements considered to be objective: cost, utility, scarcity, market price, desirable price and fairness to the producer. This concept is, in my view, indispensable for the panel of referees, whether it is the mediator or the judges.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u108	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u109	We have discussed this at length in committee. You think that your amendment is just an addition, but I would like to remind you that contracts are instruments that create obligations between the parties; it is not appropriate to assign them a single objective. Moreover, this would be contrary to the principle of freedom of negotiation and freedom of contract. I would add that the contracts already incorporate the concept of "significant imbalance" in the trade code. I doubt, therefore, that adding this part of the sentence would make it possible to make a real switch. Request for withdrawal or, failing that, unfavorable notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u110	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u111	Same opinion. I would add that Article 1 is included in an article in the rural code that does not relate to the objective you are looking for. Request for withdrawal.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u112	Mr François Ruffin has the floor to support Amendment No. 335.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u113	The following paragraph should be inserted: "Any contract for the sale of agricultural products distributed on French territory prohibits sales at a loss. We were told in committee that lost sales are already prohibited. However, there are exceptions, particularly in the case of food products, whose terms of sale could be better regulated. We are also entitled to ask ourselves whether a number of sales from the farmer to the industrialist or cooperative do not already constitute sales at a loss, in view of the CAP aid rates recorded by the National Research Institute for Agriculture, Food and the Environment (INRAE): these aids represent 87% of the incomes of farmers in the dairy cattle sector, 126% in sheep and 195% in beef cattle. Basically, this means that without these aids, farmers would sell at a loss. Regulation is therefore absolutely necessary.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u114	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u115	That will be an unfavorable opinion. First of all, we need to know what sale at a loss is, because there is no definition of sale at the present time. The most important thing is to trust the interbranch, which determines the indicators of production costs, and to ensure that, in the contractual relationship between the farmer and the first processor, these costs are considered as the basis of negotiation. That is precisely what we are doing through this bill, in which we introduced this measure by way of amendment. While farmers today welcome the progress made in the text, we must continue to highlight the indicators of production costs, which, I would remind you, are validated in interprofessional terms by farmers, processing – that is, agri-food manufacturers – and large-scale distribution. I repeat, let's trust them rather than try to set a floor price.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u116	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u117	Your amendment is precisely in line with the purpose of the bill. It could have been formulated differently, in order to guarantee the farmer an income that would enable him to meet his production costs or to require that the product be sold at the level of the quality he represents. You therefore express, by this addition, exactly what we are trying to do, except that, if it were so simple and if it would solve the problem, it would have been known and our predecessors would have done so for more than thirty years now, that they had been looking for a solution. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u118	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u119	To begin with, I find it preferable for the debate to begin on this ground: we pursue the same aims.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u120	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u121	On the other hand, we differ on the means.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u122	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u123	I hear the rapporteur repeat that the interbranch – farmers, industrialists and distributors – will agree on several indicators and that we will see what happens. Forgive me, but it's still very muddy. You say, minister, that if it were so simple, our predecessors would have done it: I do not say "there is only one thing to do," but I say that simple solutions exist, which we refuse to grasp for ideological reasons. The European Union is an ideological apparatus...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u124	Politics.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u125	[[Minister nods his head as a sign of denial]] ... which forbids the taking of simple solutions which have nevertheless worked within the European Union. I set them out earlier. If we do not seize the floor price device – a tool at our disposal – it is essentially for ideological reasons. We therefore have a divergence of means in this regard. I would like more clarity in this text, particularly with regard to the prohibition of sales at a loss – a ban that already exists in the rural code or in the commercial code, I am no longer well aware, not being a specialist in these matters.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u126	That's too bad! When you make the law, it's better to know it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u127	Mr Jean-Baptiste Moreau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u128	To answer to our colleague François Ruffin, the floor price, or minimum price, has already existed at European Union level: this was called the intervention price. It has led to these images that you all know: those hectolitres of milk spilled into the channels or those carcasses stored in freezers and destocked at a vile price for the markets of the developing countries, destabilizing the economies of those countries. [[Roland Lescure, Chairman of the Committee on Economic Affairs, applauds]] It has led to a disconnect between supply and demand, i.e. the placing on the market of products which are not sold but which are financed from public money. It's the Shadok world! This scheme has already existed but it has not saved a single farmer; On the contrary, it allowed the constitution of agri-food oligopolies such as Bigard or Lactalis, which produced volume and made money while the state or Europe came to compensate. But this scheme never saved any farmer.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u129	Mr Dominique Potier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u130	The destruction of the volumes mentioned by Mr Moreau and which we have indeed known – I witnessed in my childhood and adolescence – have been essentially solved by the regulation of the market between supply and demand. I repeat an argument given to the debate by the Socialist and Related Group: OPs must manage both the volume and the price, in order to avoid deflation and overproduction, which lead either to breaking prices or to destroying precious raw materials to feed humanity.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u131	On this point, I fully agree.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u132	In committee, I asked you a question without any malice, Mr rapporteur – I had not taken the time to inquire about the operators –: how does an inter-occupation work? More than the OPs, I have heard the unions, including the National Federation of Agricultural Operators' Unions (FNSEA), make the bet on interprofessionalism. Hence my question: what rules govern interbranching? Are these rules of private law, or rather public rules of arbitration, that ensure that the most fragile parties are heard and defended? My point is innocent: if rules of operation ensure that the most fragile parts are taken into account, inter-occupation can be the framework and crucible for the construction of fair prices. If this is not the case, I am concerned and I expect clarification, or even the opening of a legislative project or a working group.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u133	Mr François Ruffin has the floor to support Amendment No. 333.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u134	Unsurprisingly, in the course of our discussions, it aims to introduce a floor price. As has been pointed out by Mr. Potier and Moreau, such a system existed. However, the floor price alone does not explain the drifts that have been recalled – especially since they have been regulated by production quotas. You know very well that it is the lifting of quotas for milk and beet that has produced a world worthy of the Shadoks and a certain madness on the markets. What we are asking for is not the Soviet Union, it is not what France does not want, nor is it the Communist Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u135	It's not the same thing!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u136	We want to return to a stronger framework and regulation than your proposed legislation. If you were to answer me, as I have already told you, that the European Union and the World Trade Organisation prohibit it, we could discuss possible solutions; There would then be a frank debate with us and with the French on the future of agriculture and the agri-food industry. Either you really believe in your arguments, or you hide behind screens by refusing to mention these constraints, which are essentially ideological. The fanatics are not on our benches! We are proposing regulation, as it has been practiced for decades in Europe. This was delivered to me by an apricots farmer in Villeneuve-sur-Lot, affiliated with the FNSEA, who had returned from Brussels where he had met the milk section of the Commission: "I felt like I had Milton Friedman's little soldiers in front of me. How can we get out of this ideological power that has settled in the heads of the Commission, but also in the leaders of our country?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u137	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u138	He's unfavorable. Here, Mr. Ruffin, we do the law, and we do it according to the ups and downs of the territories and the first concerned. When I talk to farmers, they don't say that the cost of production indicator is too low or that they haven't found it. Most – if not all – of the inter-occupations have found this indicator, and farmers do not refute its value: their fear is that it will not be used as a basis for negotiation. That is precisely the purpose of the bill: we make the cost-of-production indicator a base. On the other hand, I do not think that a floor price should be fixed. Going to Monique Limon in the Isère, Jean-Baptiste Moreau in the Creuse, or to my home in the Aube, it's not the same cost! Not all of us live in the same house, because our territories are different. Perhaps you want farmers to be state employees, but that is not our choice: we allow interprofessionals to decide. [[Ms. Monique Limon applauds]] When we analyse the situation in the territories and discuss with farmers, they say that they are not dissatisfied with the cost of production indicators provided for by the EGALIM Act. I repeat: the EGALIM law is a good law, but, as Mrs Beaudouin-Hubiere explained, we have preferred the contract of trust to legislative constraint. Let's introduce a little constraint, let's get everyone back on track and move forward, rather than trying to create an administered economy.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u139	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u140	This debate is behind all the amendments. Let's say it frankly: pricing by law does not work. The first reason for this is legal, and is in no way due to a Brussels constraint, Mr Ruffin. Take the opinions given by the Conseil d'État prior to the EGALIM 1 law: it clearly explains that French law would not allow the price to be fixed by law, in particular with regard to the freedom of contracting as defined constitutionally. Is it good or bad? Anyway, that's a fact. The second reason was put forward by Mr Moreau: it would not work. Let's not talk about carabistyles by making it look like a miracle recipe, in which the law would assure everyone a fixed or minimum price. Not only is this not legally possible, but history has shown that it does not work. That's why the subject is so complicated. If it worked, we would have done it! There is no compulsion here from Brussels or elsewhere.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u141	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u142	I don't know if I should comment on the exchange between Julien Denormandie and François Ruffin...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u143	What's your best friend?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u144	We share an objective with François Ruffin and La France unsuspecting: to overthrow this absolutely disastrous liberal system. On the other hand, we have a different political culture, and our relationship to parliamentary activity is not the same. Some of the bill proposals are holding me up, and I may be too locked up in the parliamentary debate – without falling, I hope, into the "parliamentary cretinism" that Karl Marx was talking about!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u145	Don't change, Mr. Chassaigne!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u146	I always try to intervene on the text, rather than on the context. I come to the amendment: the essence of the problem lies in the drifts that have taken place in the European Union. I have often exchanged with academics, specialists in European law, in particular competition law – France has distinguished professors in this field – They explain that the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union includes a primary objective, as set out in Article 39: the protection of farmers' incomes. Yet, decade after decade, this goal has been completely forgotten. Furthermore, Article 42 of the Treaty establishes that competition rules apply to the production of and trade in agricultural products only to the extent that they give precedence to the objectives of the CAP over those of competition. Therefore, a question needs to be asked – it is also raised by François Ruffin: in the name of an ideology, do we not set up walls for ourselves that we could cross? I am convinced that we are not going to finish what we could do, especially with regard to the taboo of the floor price – perhaps there is a vocabulary problem. We have to go a lot further. In fact, I have often defended the principle of floor price in bills during the previous legislature. We need to think about it, and amendments have been tabled to that effect. We have to ask ourselves how far we can go.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u147	Don't worry, Mr Chassaigne, I don't think Karl Marx was talking about you! Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u148	I will not go back to your accusations, Mr rapporteur, that we would like to make farmers the employees of the state or to establish an administered economy. However, it is quite ironic: when I produce statistics on the share of European subsidies in farmers' incomes, proving that they are under infusion and paid by aid rather than by prices; When I propose to raise prices and set a floor price, I am accused of wanting to make farmers state employees. I'm not advocating the renaissance of kolkhozes! Your caricatures and exaggerations did not serve you in committee, since even Cédric Villani and Nicolas Turquois acknowledged that the measures I defended were relevant and deserved to be listened to. Think of what Serge Papin, then CEO of Système U, said when he was heard by the commission during the General Food States: "If we want to save French agriculture and bring it to the most qualitative level, we would need minimum guaranteed prices for at least a transitional period of two years. I don't think Mr. Papin recognizes himself in a Bolshevik program! However, it was he who proposed this measure as a co-host of the General Food States. He also stressed that quality was at stake: it applied not only to farmers, but also to agriculture, land and ecology. How can agriculture be transformed, by reducing inputs and strengthening animal welfare, if farmers are back to the wall and have no room for manoeuvre on prices to transform themselves? The levers we invoke are necessary.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u149	Mr Jean-Baptiste Moreau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u150	There is obviously a need for price and volume regulation, Mr Potier, but it must come from producers and their organisations, not from the state and Europe – in which case it would not correspond to the market and would always present a time and price lag. To be reactive, volume regulation must be by the producers' hand, which requires better structuring. The bill will not solve all the problems, but it is essential to complement the EGALIM law. There is still a need to work on European competition law – the minister has been working on it for many months to change this competitive framework. Regulation must therefore take place, but certainly not by introducing a quota system that has shown its limits or even failed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u151	Mr François Ruffin has the floor to support Amendment No. 332.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u152	In your mouth and in the text, there are indicators, established by interbranching. These two plurals make things very gaseous and uncertain. With this amendment, we propose that the development of a single benchmark should be entrusted to the Observatory for the formation of food prices and margins for contracts for the sale of agricultural products.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u153	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u154	Because agriculture is plural, including within the sectors, there cannot be a single indicator. The indicators must be made public – as proposed by an amendment – and must be used – so that the production indicator will be the basis of the negotiations. My opinion is therefore unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u155	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u156	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u157	Mr. Nicolas Turquois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u158	I will go back to the floor price, which Mr Ruffin mentioned to me: I did indeed make the comments you are reporting. In fact, when we commit ourselves over a period of three years, as provided for in Article 1, a number of indicators are used which may vary in varying proportions: minimums and maximums can then be set. Some sectors operate according to this principle. For example, the free-on-board price – FOB – of wheat found at the port of Rouen can be relied on, but in case of too low prices, a minimum is set, which makes it possible to ensure that, for three years – if this is the duration of the contract – the producer does not find himself in the red if the price has fallen too low. By symmetry, a maximum is also set to prevent the transformer from being stuck at the margin level because the price would have climbed much more than expected.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u159	Mr Jean-Pierre Vigier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u160	We're talking about a floor price contract: I'm totally in favour of it. I think this bill is in the right direction, and that is why I will vote for it. Some sectors, such as the mountains and the middle mountains, already have quality agriculture.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u161	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u162	Why is there not, at national level, an official recognition – perhaps through a specific specification – of these mountain products? This made it possible to have a floor price because, above all, it is important to create added value on agricultural products. In the mountains, I think we're in the real world.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u163	Mr François Ruffin has the floor to support Amendment No. 331.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u164	It is a matter of defining the notion of unfairly low prices better, but, as I say with some weariness, I already know what you are going to answer. Despite the massive rejection by the majority of all the amendments on floor prices, on resale at a loss, I would like you to hear the music that goes up on the benches of the SOC, GDR and FI groups, but also on those of the Dem group, by the voice of Nicolas Turquois, and those of the LR group: I want to talk about the desire for regulation, a desire that this law will not satisfy, as it will leave things unclear. As I said in the rostrum, while the majority remains firmly attached to the principle of free trade, what the country underground calls its wishes is demonization. This will was not born a year ago or even ten years ago, it dates back at least to 2005, with the Treaty establishing a Constitution for Europe. If we do not find the political path to accompany it, it will produce clashes, conflicts and votes that we do not want.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u165	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u166	Unfavorable notice, for the same reasons as given earlier. Defining the price level abusively low in relation to a cost-of-production indicator would be tantamount to setting a floor price.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u167	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u168	Disadvantaged too. Mr Ruffin, let me humbly quote the great authors: "However, we must move from manual pilotage based on public action and controls to automatic pilotage, by laying down rules which the State will guarantee: this is what we call regulation. So yes, we have to regulate. These words are what I said in the gallery about an hour and a half ago. I have nothing against regulation; We only need to find the right balance between regulating and choking.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u169	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u170	[[Smile]] I'm glad you're one of the great writers!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u171	I said it humbly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u172	[["Exactly! » on several benches of the LaREM group]] That you have the word "regulation" in your mouth is already progress in the vocabulary field. I have heard further progress with the words "constraint" or "relationship of power", because the universe we are talking about is not that of bisoun bears. But what a gap between the means and the end! The term "framework agreements" refers to framework agreements which, in determining prices, should now take into account "one or more indicators relating to the relevant costs of production in agriculture and the evolution of these costs, one or more indicators relating to the prices of agricultural and food products", and which would then require a mediator to modify or delete framework agreements which he considers to be abusive or unbalanced, a judge may be brought before him for arbitration in the event that the mediation mission does not reach a conclusion within a month, etc. I'm sorry, but it's not this kind of stuff we're gonna be able to get away with! Believe that no one here wants to stifle private initiative,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u173	All right?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u174	...but if you have a true will to regulate large distribution, these fawns attracted by the taste of the dividend, you have to lay down rules. What we propose for you on lost resale, on unfairly low prices, on floor prices does not seem to us of the order of the economy administered, but of regulation. If you really want farmers to have a better income and to be able to transform agriculture, put the means in front of the goals you are pursuing!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u175	Mrs Barbara Bessot Ballot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u176	We have recently experienced an episode of frost that will lead to an increase in the price of fruit. With a framework agreement that sets the price, how do you increase this price, how can you stick to the market? With what you propose, the fruit producer will no longer have any income, and he will systematically sell at a loss the little fruit he has harvested.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u177	I have before me three identical amendments, Nos 15, 89 and 391. Mr Julien Dive has the floor to support Amendment No. 15.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u178	As I said in the general discussion, the months we have been through have also changed consumption patterns, with consumers turning more to short circuits. There is a kind of acceleration in the use of short circuits, localism and products on the farm. My amendment aims to consider farm-processed products, when they are sold in short circuits through e-commerce or drive which also develop in our countryside, as direct sales to the consumer.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u179	I call Mr Potier to support Amendment No. 89.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u180	We do not propose a revolution but to specify in the law something that will bring added value. This is an important concession to quota ownership, which was very closed. This opening to allow private initiative does not call into question quotas managed by their owners.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u181	Amendment No 391 by Mr André Chassaigne is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u182	I am very embarrassed, because the purpose of these amendments is more than honourable. However, here you remove the concept of direct selling, which would mean that it would be included in the scope of the article. Moreover, these amendments do not mention processed products, which would exclude the sale of fresh products. Finally, they give the impression that only on-farm sales fall within the scope of the scheme, which does not cover sales on the Internet or other means of sale. I therefore request the withdrawal of these amendments; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u183	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u184	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u185	Mr Dominique Potier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u186	I would admit that the wording of our amendments is awkward, but the current situation is not satisfactory since these new forms of marketing and processing are not taken into account. Do you have an alternative proposal for us?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u187	Mr Julien Dive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u188	I echo the words of my colleague Dominique Potier. Mr rapporteur, you say that our proposal is interesting and that we must take account of the situation. If you are embarrassed with the drafting of these amendments, you can amend them or propose something else.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u189	I have before me a number of amendments, Nos 174, 339, 392, 87, 90, 454 and 371, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 174, 339 and 392 are identical, as are Amendments Nos 87 and 90. Amendment No 174 is being defended. I call Mr Ruffin to support Amendment No. 339.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u190	It should be pointed out that the task of the Observatory for Price Formation and Margins is to establish the cost of production indicators for each agricultural sector, integrating decent remuneration for producers through a price formula. Mrs Bessot Ballot, your house must be strangely built, like the rapporteur's house, because you again confuse floors and ceilings. The floor is the minimum. You say that in case of freezing, if the prices rise the prices will still be glued to the floor. No! In this case, the farmer will not be paid at the floor price but at the market price. Your objection does not respond at all to the proposal that I make, which was also defended by André Chassaigne and Dominique Potier. Anyway, you answer next to the plate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u191	Amendments Nos 392 by Mr André Chassaigne and 87 by Mrs Valérie Bazin-Malgras are being defended. I call Mr Potier to support Amendment No. 90.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u192	Through this amendment, we defend the idea of a minimum income for producers, i.e. a sufficient consideration of the work of producers: this does not prevent adaptations in the event of exceptional phenomena linked to the climate or to tensions on the markets. This amendment, proposed by the Peasant Confederation – of which cousins or brothers have been found in other producer organisations – is fundamental to the debate that brings us together.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u193	Mrs Albane Gaillot has the floor to support Amendment No. 454.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u194	The aim of Mr Villani's amendment is to set a floor price corresponding to the production costs, since contract-making is not enough. As observed by the Peasant Confederation which proposed this amendment, prices in the beef and veal sector Label rouge remain, despite the contract, below the cost of production indicators calculated by inter-occupation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u195	The rapporteur's amendment No 371 is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee on all the other amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u196	Unfavorable. I want to answer Mr Ruffin, who often asks me where I live. I can assure him I'm very far from being low! The objective, as I mentioned earlier, is not to set a floor price. Agriculture is plural: let us work together to strengthen the indicators which, with their publication, can become the basis of negotiations. The non-negotiability of agricultural raw materials is a constraint. You're talking a lot about coercion, about the balance of power. This proposal for a law is coercion, it is the balance of power that you are waiting for: it is the one that is going to put at a standstill those who "fail" the law since it does not go far enough, at this stage, on the relations between the actors.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u197	What is the Government's opinion on these amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u198	Unfavorable opinion on all these amendments, with the exception of that of the rapporteur. I repeat, if we had thought that it was possible to set a floor price, we would have done so; But you know very well that, legally – I speak under your control: you write the law – it doesn't work. And it also doesn't work technically, as Jean-Baptiste Moreau explained very well. All those who have a little memory among the ancients, as they say in the peasant world, have in mind these images of stocks of milk, butter or other products. Let me turn to the debate on a possible approximation of floor and ceiling prices. Let us forget the legal and technical reservations, and let us take a concrete example of the application of these amendments: the setting of a minimum price per litre of milk in the law or through reference indicators. There is a problem that you have discussed from the outset: the price may vary depending on the territory, and the reference indicators will have to reflect these differences. In fact, the differences can be very large, even within the same territory. What's going to happen? Since it will be impossible to set 200 different prices, it will be necessary to simply establish a few. As a result, the measure will be unfavourable to all those whose prices are above the defined level, as explained by the rapporteur. Another example is setting a minimum price for meat. One of you rightly pointed out that the carcass had to be distinguished from the noble parts. The price of a piece of meat also varies depending on the soil, its quality, the way livestock are fed, etc. Are we going to define in this assembly a prize for the lamb chop of Quercy and another for that of Île-de-France?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u199	[[Smile]] What about the pre-salary lamb of the bay of Mont-Saint-Michel?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u200	She'll have a different price. It's absolutely impossible. As Edgar Pisani, the illustrious Minister of Agriculture, said, we must never disconnect supply demand in the agricultural world.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u201	It's called quotas...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u202	Mrs. Sophie Beaudouin-Hubiere has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u203	We are back, as in committee, in a great debate on the history of the floor price. I don't mind if we do it again as many times as necessary, but, for my part, I would like to respond to those who blamed me for being naive – in essence, because it is not the exact term that was used – and to belong to the world of bisouns because I was disappointed with the bet in trust. In my opinion, the naïve are those who want to set floor or minimum prices. I don't trust this system where the floor price is likely to become "the" price. That's the real risk. Let us not be naive, let us not sin out of excess confidence: I doubt that the prices then negotiated will be higher than the floor prices.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u204	Mr. Nicolas Turquois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u205	It seems to me that we are talking about two different things. The idea of setting a floor price – or ceiling, moreover – at national level makes no sense. It is not the same if one puts oneself in a contract logic in which the producer and the buyer commit themselves, say for a period of three years, to quantities and methods of delivery.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u206	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u207	During the duration of this contract, both parties will have agreed on prices in a tunnel, i.e. limited to up and down on the basis of clear indicators open to everyone.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u208	Weighted!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u209	If we take the case of wheat, even if this raw material does not fall within this logic, the price will thus be weighted according to the FOB observed on the Rouen market – internationally recognised price – but without going below that price because the farmer considers that he cannot produce below that level. These are then minimum contractual rules and not national ones. The defined tunnel will enable the farmer to secure a price that takes into account his cost of production and thus the financial balance of his holding. For its part, the buyer -processor ensures that the price will not explode and place it out of the market, in the inability to sell its product to the large distribution. This notion seems interesting to me. This is in no way an administrative tunnel drawn up on the basis of nationally defined prices. My production costs are not identical to those of Jean-Baptiste Moreau, for example, because we do not have the same operating structures, the same way of working or, for example, the same pedoclimatic constraints.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u210	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u211	I agree with you all the more, Mr. Turquois, that this is exactly what we are doing in this bill. As the minister has explained very well, we cannot set a floor price...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u212	It's no use!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u213	... because of the large disparities observed in the territory, and it is strictly impossible to create a multitude of them; Hence the idea of defining cost-of-production indicators as the basis for negotiation. The constraint of indexation is exactly what is provided for in Article 1 of this bill. It is my turn to take an example, that of poultry: a chicken's diet accounts for 65% of its price. If the farmer does not index his prices to the increase in the raw material that makes it possible to feed his poultry, it is he who will become the adjustment variable and pay the difference. By allowing these indices, we are putting pressure into this text because it is not legitimate to charge the farmer for the increase in raw materials. It is legitimate for the industrialist to pay better for his chicken supplier. However, the industrialist should not be caught in a vice, nor should he be able to pass on this increase to the level of large distribution. Contracts, transparency and the independent third party must give the possibility of indexing costs, so that the large distribution takes account of the real evolution of the cost of agricultural products paid by the industrialist. [[Barbara Bessot Ballot and Anne-Laure Cattelot applaud]] Mr Ruffin, you have read the text in a very special way, let us say. I hope you understand the simple words I just used. This bill, which introduces coercion, will put everyone back on track.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u214	I have before me four identical amendments, Nos 18, 91, 243 and 480. Mr Julien Dive has the floor to support Amendment No. 18.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u215	We want to include in the text the notion of "cost of services associated with the purchase of agricultural raw materials" in order to remedy a form of opacity in certain sectors, particularly livestock farming – several of us have received the testimony of breeders. To avoid catch-up effects at the time of invoicing, we propose to integrate the cost of these services – logistics, packaging, etc. - in the contract. It is essential to take this into account.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u216	I call Mr Potier to support Amendment No. 91.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u217	It was inspired by the National Federation of Milk Producers (FNPL). Among the associated services, we focus on invoicing, a service that is often delegated to the buyer and overpaid by the producer. This amendment is entirely in the spirit of the law: it provides for non-discrimination, except for specific sales clauses that need to be clarified. I therefore hope to see it adopted.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u218	Mr Antoine Herth's amendment No. 243 is being defended. Mrs Michèle Crouzet has the floor to support Amendment No. 480.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u219	It is a question of mentioning the "cost of services associated with the purchase of agricultural raw materials". It is recurrent, prior to commercial relations, that the billing service be delegated to the buyer. This regulatory framework is already provided for by the EGALIM law, which sets out several obligations for operators taking charge of invoicing on behalf of their supplier. To date, however, breeders report an opacity on the actual cost of this billing service. In line with the logic of increasing the transparency of commercial relations, it therefore seems important to impose a reference in the contract to the cost of services associated with the purchase of agricultural raw materials, such as that related to this billing service.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u220	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u221	The opinion is unfavourable, particularly with regard to a drafting question: there is a contradiction between the paragraph you propose to create and a provision of the EGALIM law which provides, on the contrary, that "invoicing is the subject of a separate written mandate which cannot be linked to the contract". Your amendments would therefore revert to this provision of the EGALIM Act.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u222	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u223	The rapporteur refers to Article V of Article L. 631-24 of the Rural and Maritime Code.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u224	Mr Dominique Potier has the floor to support Amendment No. 264.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u225	It is intended to clarify that "in exceptional weather conditions, no penalty may be imposed on a producer who fails to comply with the volumes provided for in the contract". In committee, you told me he was satisfied. It's prescribed by the law, but who decides? The buyer? The producer? Interprofession acting as an arbitrator? What rules will be applied in the latter case or in the case of a producer organisation? In this case, how is the law applied?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u226	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u227	The case of force majeure is already one of the hazards taken into account in the contracts. That is why I voted against it in committee. In view of the current circumstances and in the interests of simplification, I am expressing a favourable opinion on your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u228	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u229	Same opinion. The provision is probably redundant, but I would like to send a clear political message at a time when we are experiencing a large number of climatic hazards. Thank you for your amendment, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u230	[[Smile]] I'm holding it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u231	[[Smile]] I'm surprised!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u232	The rapporteur's amendment No 441 is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u233	Mr Julien Dive has the floor to support Amendment No. 461.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u234	Serge Papin's report – to which you referred, Minister – highlights the importance of using indicators of a "universal, objective and indisputable nature" in contracts for the sale of agricultural products in order to guarantee their legitimacy and credibility. In this regard, the implementation of the indicators in the EGALIM Act has been incomplete, which has allowed for circumvention. I had asked you about the role of FPMO because of the lack of indicators of production costs. We want to go further through this amendment, taking back the contributions of the debates in committee. We propose that the indicators should be further consolidated by strengthening, on the one hand, their essential role in the formation of prices for agricultural raw materials, and, on the other hand, by ensuring that they are prepared and published by inter-branch organisations, or, failing that, by the relevant agricultural technical institutes or professional organisations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u235	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u236	I request the withdrawal of this amendment; If I don't, I'll give you an unfavorable opinion. You mention the technical institutes – which is a very good thing – but also the professional organizations, of which the Federation of Trade and Distribution (FCD) is part, which represents only the distributors. I do not think that the task of setting production cost indicators is left to the distributors alone.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u237	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u238	In any case, that is not the purpose of this bill. I am going to present an amendment which follows your main lines but which only mentions technical institutes.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u239	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u240	I agree with the rapporteur. I therefore propose, Mr President, that you withdraw your amendment, in favour of the rapporteur's No 372, under which the technical institutes will be able to draw up and publish indicators when the interbranch does not do so, and in favour of the excellent amendments No 236 by Thierry Benoit...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u241	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u242	... and 377 of the rapporteur, who are trying to make these indicators the basis of the negotiations, which is in line with another request made in your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u243	Mr Julien Dive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u244	A sub-amendment to delete the part relating to professional organisations would have been sufficient to ensure that my amendment is in line with what the rapporteur and the minister expect. Nevertheless, I agree to withdraw it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u245	I have before me a number of amendments, Nos 24, 64, 134, 201, 268, 393, 419, 158, 181, 289, 368, 2, 74, 109, 125, 238, 285, 322, 471, 236 and 377, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 24, 64, 134, 201, 268, 393 and 419 are identical, as are Amendments Nos 158, 181, 289 and 368, Amendments Nos 2, 74, 109, 125, 238, 285, 322 and 471 and Amendments Nos 236 and 377. Mr Jean-Pierre Vigier has the floor to support Amendment No. 24.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u246	The purpose of this amendment is to avoid taking into account cost-of-production indicators which would be anecdotal, in the sense that it would in no way alter the price paid to farmers. The EGALIM law is too often circumvented by buyers who impose, by their bargaining power, an entry in the contract of the cost-of-production indicator which has none – I say none – impact on the price.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u247	Identical amendments No 64 by Mr Emmanuel Maquet, 134 by Mr Thibault Bazin, 201 by Mr Fabien Di Filippo and 268 by Mrs Nathalie Serre are being defended. I call Mr André Chassaigne to support Amendment No. 393.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u248	This amendment is based on comments made in the last report of the Observatory for the Formation of Food Prices and Margins, and in particular on two passages from a very interesting chapter entitled "Volatile and often disappointing agricultural results". First, it states that "the assessment of production costs in agriculture is carried out by the Observatory using two methods". The first "uses the FADN data – agricultural accounting information network – on the basis of farm samples" while the second is "made by agricultural technical institutes" and "includes all the costs of both capital and labour". "It must be stressed," he said, "that in both cases they are averages that must not mask the great heterogeneity of French farms. » Secondly, it states: "The average results are of course highly variable depending on the situation of agricultural markets, climatic conditions, the costs of intermediate consumption and in particular animal feed. In this way, we learn that over the years, CAAI – current pre-tax results – "varies greatly depending on production, from – 3% to + 30% for wheat production, from 3% to 19% for pork, from 11% to 21% for vegetables, from 14% to 21% for beef, from 15% to 24% for milk". Therefore, it is necessary to make it clear that the assessment of production costs must take into account, in part, market indicators at the time of signing the contract. This is the subject of this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u249	Amendment No 419 by Mr Jean-Pierre Vigier is defended, along with identical amendments No 158 by Mr Jacques Cattin, 181 by Mr Yves Hemedinger, 289 by Mrs Emmanuelle Anthoine and 368 by Mr Fabrice Brun and identical amendments No 2 by Mr Julien Dive, 74 by Mr Vincent Descoeur, 109 by Mrs Anne-Laure Blin and 125 by Mr Paul Molac. Mr Thierry Benoit has the floor to support Amendment No. 238.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u250	It is a continuation of the discussions we had during the general statements of food, which had devoted the cost of production indicators. With this amendment, we are continuing along this path by entrusting the inter-professions with the task of developing these indicators. Better: we make the indicators essential since this amendment, which has a prescriptive value, provides for mandatory and systematic reference to them in the calculation of prices. I would also like to defend Amendment No 236. It is linked to the previous one since it is intended to include in the law that "the proposal for a contract or framework agreement constitutes the basis of the negotiation". The aim is therefore to make indicators on the relevant costs of production in agriculture and on the evolution of these costs the basis of negotiations between the Contracting Parties.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u251	I call Mr Luc Lamirault to support Amendment No. 285.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u252	With this amendment we propose adding a small constraint to ensure that the indicators are taken into account effectively. It seems to me, however, that in some future amendments the same request is made in a slightly different way but in the same spirit. Therefore I withdraw mine.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u253	Identical amendments Nos 322 by Mrs Valérie Bazin-Malgras and 471 by Mrs Martine Leguille-Balloy are being defended. Amendment No 236 by Mr Thierry Benoit was defended. On the identical amendments Nos 236 and 377, I have a request for a public vote before the Group of the European People's Party. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No 377 and give the committee's opinion on the other amendments under joint discussion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u254	Amendment No 377 is identical to that of Mr Benoit. The fact that the cost of production indicators are the basis for negotiation in contracts between farmers and the first processors is, in my view, a major step forward. This request had been made with great force by the agricultural world. I therefore call for withdrawal and will, failing that, issue an unfavorable opinion on all the amendments, with the exception of, of course, Nos 236 and 377.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u255	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u256	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u257	Mr Thierry Benoit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u258	I withdraw Amendment No 238, and would also like to welcome the good will of the Minister and the rapporteur, who are part of a co-construction process and want us to move forward together on the inclusion of indicators.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u259	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u260	As Mr. Benoit said, the important thing is that this issue has been negotiated within the profession. His amendment is essentially the same as I have defended with some of my colleagues. What counts above all, however, is the result. As long as we are moving in the right direction, I have no problem withdrawing my amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u261	I put to the vote identical amendments Nos 236 and 377.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u262	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 53 Number of votes cast 53 Absolute majority 27 For adoption 53 Against 0
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u263	I have before me several identical amendments, Nos 88, 95, 121, 176, 336 and 394. Mr Jean-Pierre Vigier has the floor to support Amendment No. 88.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u264	There is currently no legislative definition of the cost of production. The purpose of this amendment is to ensure that the remuneration of employed and self-employed agricultural labour is taken into account in the cost-of-production indicators.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u265	I call Mr Potier to support Amendment No. 95.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u266	This amendment proposed by the Peasant Confederation is struck by common sense: it is a matter of taking into account the income of the farmer and the farm's employees. We'll come back to that when we talk about the pay-score.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u267	Identical amendments No 121 by Mrs Marie-Christine Dalloz and 176 by Mr Pierre Morel - À- L'Huissier are being defended. Mrs Bénédicte Taurine has the floor to support Amendment No. 336.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u268	I agree with Mr Potier on this amendment from a proposal from the Peasant Confederation. I would like to take this opportunity, Mr Minister, to ask you for your opinion on the employees recruited as replacements and for whom the MSA, the Mutual Agricultural Social Fund, pays a daily allowance of some 20 euros. It seems to me that this is an issue that needs to be addressed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u269	Amendment No 394 by Mr André Chassaigne is being defended. What is the committee's opinion on these amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u270	He's unfavorable. I would remind you, however, that a college of farmers sits within the inter-occupation and is therefore involved in the development of the cost-of-production indicator, which involves taking into account different criteria. I would also point out that we have left it to the interprofessions to determine the cost-of-production indicators themselves – this is set out in the law. On the other hand, in the opinion of the Council of State on the EGALIM bill, which must be respected, it is specified that "operators remain free, both in the choice or in the creation of indicators, and in the way in which they are taken into account".
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u271	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u272	I share this view for two reasons. First, the law states that the cost of production must be taken into account, but it must be borne in mind that the cost of production depends on a multitude of factors. Secondly, thanks to all the work we have done, and to the adoption of Amendments Nos 236 by Mr Benoit and 377 by the rapporteur, the cost of production indicators are now the basis of the negotiations. This is a major step forward that will now have to be implemented with great strength and determination, including through monitoring. The opinion is therefore unfavourable in view of what you voted earlier.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u273	Mr Thierry Benoit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u274	For the sake of consistency, I withdraw Amendment No 176. Indeed, as the Minister and the rapporteur have said, what he is planning is already covered by the identical amendments Nos 236 and 377 adopted earlier.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u275	Mrs Bénédicte Taurine has the floor to support Amendment No. 337.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u276	By this appeal amendment, we would like the renegotiation clauses to depend in particular on the evolution of the production costs of agricultural products according to the threshold considered relevant by the Observatory for the formation of prices and margins of foodstuffs. In the same spirit as an amendment proposed by the National Bovine Federation, with which we discussed this subject during the review of the EGALIM Act, this amendment aims to ensure that agricultural production costs, including raw materials, trigger renegotiations when variations exceed a certain threshold.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u277	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u278	Unfavorable. It is up to the farmers and processors with whom they work, rather than an outside actor, to manage the indexing clauses.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u279	Mrs Martine Leguille-Balloy has the floor to support Amendment No. 472.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u280	This is the result of a situation that we have been seeing for several years, particularly in the dairy sector. As you said, the indicators will now form the basis of the negotiations. However, I would point out that industrialists are using – not systematically, but almost – indicators corresponding to products with very low added value, which, in equalisation, and despite the weighting we are going to forecast, results in a decrease in the price paid to producers. That is why I am asking in this amendment that it be possible to call on an independent third party, both upstream and downstream, to attest to the veracity of the indicators. The objective is to ensure that the refusal by a buyer of the price proposal made by the producers is justified in an objective manner, in support of the figures.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u281	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u282	I ask for withdrawal and will, failing that, issue an unfavorable opinion. You mention in your amendment the possible disagreements between a farmer and his processor and the possibility of involving an independent third party. The Ombudsman for Agricultural Trade Relations, who is doing an excellent job, is already playing this role as a third party. On the other hand, I would remind you that with this bill we have gone a step further in this area by setting up an agricultural trade dispute resolution committee, which is responsible for issuing a judgment if mediation has not been successful.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u283	I have before me several amendments, No 338 corrected, 23, 63, 173, 267, 287, 321, 397, 418, 200, 157, 180, 367, 5, 1, 75, 93, 110, 120, 127, 135, 251, 288, 438, 448, 372 and 474, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 23, 63, 173, 267, 287, 321, 397 and 418 are identical, as are Amendments Nos 157, 180 and 367 and Nos 1, 75, 93, 110, 120, 127, 135, 251, 288, 438 and 448. Amendment No 372 is the subject of a sub-amendment No 495. Mrs Bénédicte Taurine has the floor to support Amendment No. 338, as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u284	This amendment, resulting from discussions with the Peasant Confederation, aims to entrust the Observatory of Prices and Margins with the task of establishing the reference indicators for the construction of the selling price. In 2017 in Rungis, President Macron made the wish to build prices from production costs, but neither the EGALIM law nor this bill fulfills this wish. Sales prices cannot be based on a multitude of indicators that measure things of a different nature and then cancel each other. We believe that the reference indicators should be drawn up by the Observatory for Prices and Margins, an administrative committee of an advisory nature independent of the various actors concerned, because it is essential that these indicators be determined by a public body in order to be accepted by all. They must be based on figures from interprofessional and technical agricultural institutes, but the Observatory must ultimately propose the reference indicators.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u285	We come to the first set of identical amendments. Mrs Anne-Laure Blin has the floor to support Amendment No. 23.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u286	The Papin report, submitted to the Ministry of Agriculture, recommends that the indicators used in contracts should be of an objective and indisputable universal nature. And that is the whole point of this amendment. The aim is to make the indicators credible and legitimate so as to conform to the state of mind of the general states of food and to establish the contract on a solid basis. This provision does not seem to affect freedom of contract, since the legislator would not thus impede the negotiations of the stakeholders; it would, on the other hand, make it possible to give its real sorrow to the role of inter-branch organisations in setting up the indicators.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u287	Amendments Nos 63 by Mr Emmanuel Maquet, 173 by Mr Jean-Luc Bourgeaux, 267 by Mrs Nathalie Serre, 287 by Mrs Emmanuelle Anthoine and 321 by Mrs Valérie Bazin-Malgras were defended. I call Mr André Chassaigne to support Amendment No. 397.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u288	As far as I am concerned, I was a priori, in all sincerity, quite in favour of the amendment that Bénédicte Taurine has just defended, namely that the Observatory for Prices and Margins has a decisive role from the beginning of the process; But, from my many exchanges, it is clear that farmers are in fact very sensitive to the full integration of inter-occupations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u289	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u290	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u291	In spite of this, and even taking into account that all this remains under construction, optimism seems to me to be a bit excessive here: I am very dubious about the results of the discussions in the inter-branch, given the balance of power that exists within them – I will not repeat what I said about this in the general discussion. However, I have included in this amendment what is proposed in particular by the FNSEA, considering that the Observatory for the Formation of Prices and Margins should at least be able to act as a remedy if necessary. But it is rather an amendment of withdrawal, almost the opposite of what I basically defend.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u292	Mr Jean-Pierre Vigier has the floor to support Amendment No. 418.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u293	I will sum up what my two colleagues have said in one message: it is essential that indicators of production, market and quality costs come from inter-branch organisations. You really have to leave your hand to them. They're asking for it and I'm telling them, go ahead!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u294	Amendment No 200 by Mr Fabien Di Filippo is being defended. Identical Amendments Nos 157 by Mr Jacques Cattin, 180 by Mr Yves Hemedinger and 367 by Mr Fabrice Brun are also being defended. Mr Julien Dive has the floor to support Amendment No. 5.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u295	[[Smile]] The effectiveness of Members of our group in defending their amendments should be noted, Mr President. This long tunnel illustrates the importance of the role of FPMO. This is a subject that we had already addressed in 2018 during the debate on the EGALIM bill, with several Members from all sides of the Chamber defending, in particular, the need to make this observatory a remedy in the absence of the dissemination of indicators of production costs by an inter-occupation; The rapporteur himself had tabled amendments to that effect, as did our group. I had alerted the then Minister of Agriculture about the importance of such a provision after its introduction by the Senate had been abolished by the National Assembly at second reading, and therefore not included in the law. The OFPM, I think it is important to recall, is not here to replace inter-occupations in the dissemination of production cost indicators, but to remind them that they are a point of reference, and that it is better to go to the end of logic by disseminating them in order to avoid the intervention of the Observatory – because, in this case, the dissemination of indicators would no longer be perceived in the same way. I therefore propose by this amendment an evaluation by the Ombudsman of agricultural trade relations, two years after the entry into force of the law, of the integration of the FPMO into the scheme, which would enable it to be measured in terms of the effectiveness of the dissemination of the indicators. We have already lost four years: let's move forward. It will be time, in 2023, to draw the conclusions of the Ombudsman's report.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u296	Amendments Nos 1 by Mr Julien Dive and 75 by Mr Vincent Descoeur are being defended. I call Mr Potier to support Amendment No. 93.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u297	Like Julien Dive and André Chassaigne, I have confidence in interfaith, but limited confidence. The aim of this amendment is to ensure the publication of indicators. It is indeed the least of all things to place under the responsibility of the interbranch the advertising of the price base based on the indicators that the legislator has agglomerated and weighted. It seems to me very important, at this stage, to have a clear explanation of the rules that govern inter-professions in this area, because we cannot permanently postpone this explanation – it has already been from committee debates to sitting debates, we will not yet postpone it to consideration in the Senate. I have the impression, confirmed by a few memories, that the industrialists or the large distribution weigh, in the balance of power, on the interfaiths, to the point of giving up producers: "If you continue like this", they are told, "we will buy our milk in Ireland or Belgium, our meat in Canada...". Interprofessionalism is not a coalition of benefactors or a cooperative of partners to fight for justice in the agricultural world, it is also a set of power relations. Can you tell us once and for all, Mr rapporteur, Mr Minister, how an interprofession works in real life and what legislation, if any, governs the balance of power in its internal discussions? This is very important because we thought that large producer organisations managing volumes and prices were the solution per production pool, taking into account the pedoclimatic contexts and agro-industrial appliances. That is not the case, and I deeply regret it. But if we're going to put everything on the interprofessional side, tell us how it works to give back a little credit to what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u298	Amendments Nos 110 by Mrs Anne-Laure Blin, 120 by Mrs Marie-Christine Dalloz, 127 by Mr Paul Molac and 135 by Mr Thibault Bazin are being defended. Mr Thierry Benoit has the floor to support Amendment No 251.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u299	It is proposed that output cost indicators should be developed and disseminated by interprofessionals, of course, or, failing that, by technical institutes. But I would like to look back on what André Chassaigne and Julien Dive have said about the Observatory for the Formation of Prices and Margins, while observing the rapporteur with malice since he had kindly lit this body, in particular its chairman, in the Committee of Inquiry into the situation and practices of large-scale distribution and their groupings in their commercial relations with suppliers. I would like to expand the reflection on the role of the Observatory for Prices and Margins: today, it looks in the mirror,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u300	Yes.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u301	... and gives us an account of what has happened and makes observations. It is normal, but we could not also consider giving him a forward-looking mission – and I turn here to Stéphane Travert, who, then Minister of Agriculture, had confirmed his current president, Philippe Chalmin, in his office. In committee, Mr Minister, I gave you a title on the subject, as well as Mr Papin, to whom you had entrusted a forward-looking mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u302	Gratis?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u303	And if we have already invented everything in trade negotiations, let us take full advantage of the chance to have this observatory, in which the National Assembly is represented in the person of Yves Daniel and myself, by expanding its role to include foresight.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u304	On Article 1, I am seized by the La République en marche group of a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. I call Mr Luc Lamirault to support Amendment No. 288.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u305	Although defending an amendment identical to that of Mr Potier, I have the impression that I have a somewhat different view of the question: it casts doubts on the inter-professions when, for us, it is a matter of expressing our confidence in inter-professions and only of providing for a rescue solution if the inter-professions concerned fail to agree so that indicators can still be defined. On the other hand, I regret that the rapporteur's proposed alternative solution has not been the subject of joint work in committee, because I would then have tabled an amendment identical to his own.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u306	Amendments Nos 438 by Mrs Josiane Corneloup and 448 by Mrs Isabelle Valentin are being defended. The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 372.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u307	I am pleased to see that there is some convergence between the various political groups on the idea that farmers should set their own cost of production indicators. And as this amendment proposes that, in the absence of the inter-occupation concerned, the technical institutes should do so, I would remind you that they are made up of farmers. Mr Benoît, you have rightly pointed out that we are talking very regularly about the Observatory for Price Formation and Margins and its excellent President, Mr Chalmin. However, he is an economist, and I do not think it is up to an economist to set indicators of the production costs of farmers.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u308	That's it: it's economophobia!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u309	In addition, I would like to point out that the law already gives interbranch workers the opportunity to seize the Observatory for Price and Margin Formation, so that it can advise them in the creation of indicators. I think, ladies and gentlemen, that this amendment therefore brings us to a point of convergence: that of setting the indicators of production costs by technical institutes, in case they are not fixed by the interbranch.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u310	On Amendment No 372 and on Sub-amendment No 495, I have before me a request for a public vote by the Republic on the move. Votes are announced in the National Assembly. I call Mrs Beaudouin-Hubiere to support Amendment No. 495.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u311	The purpose of this sub-amendment is to entrust only the agricultural technical institutes with the development and publication of indicators in the event of failure of inter-branch work. Indeed, the agricultural technical institutes are best placed to carry out this task because the indicators in question relate to production costs, which are upstream. In addition, several agricultural technical institutes are already developing indicators or helping interprofessionals to do so.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u312	Mrs Martine Leguille-Balloy has the floor in support of Amendment No. 474.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u313	I thank the rapporteur, of course, for his amendment, as he supports my proposal to call on the technical institutes. But in what period of time would the failure of the interprofession be found and the institute seized? Would it be possible for you to tell me, Mr. Rapporteur?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u314	Good question.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u315	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u316	The opinion will be in favour of Amendment No 372, provided that Subamendment No 495 is adopted. The opinion is unfavourable to all the other amendments. I will reply to Mr Potier about the operation of an inter-occupation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u317	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u318	It is governed by private law, with a requirement of unanimity regarding the production cost indicator, which will now be published through this bill. In response to Martine Leguille-Balloy, the technical institute is seized in the event of a failure of the inter-occupation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u319	Who knows?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u320	Interprofession!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u321	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u322	The opinion will also support Amendment No 372 and Subamendment No 495. I would like to clarify why I am against the other amendments, even though the debate – very enlightening, in particular thanks to what one of you called the Chassaigne-Dive arch – has shown that we all agree: it is imperative that the inter-occupation takes full responsibility for the creation of the indicators of production costs, without it having, in one way or another, the tendency, the will or even the feeling of being able to exonerate itself. The EGALIM Act specified that it was up to the interbranch to create cost-of-production indicators. This bill allows for two major advances. While the law so far required interprofessionals to develop and disseminate indicators, they would now have to be published. We will clearly see those who do and those who do not. In addition, sub-amendment No 495 states that, failing this, the technical institute will have to take over. What if the interprofessional or technical institute does not act? Should it be the OFPM that does it then? In this case, as Julien Dive and André Chassaigne pointed out, there is a risk that interprofessionals and technical institutes may be disresponsible. Furthermore, Thierry Benoit is right: OFPM acts a posteriori, not upstream. These two elements limit the relevance of including the MFPO in the device.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u323	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u324	I would like to make a point of common sense: of course, interprofessionals will not fix indicators with a wet finger.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u325	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u326	Like OFPM, they will appeal to the FADN, of which they are co-owners, and also to the technical institutes. All work is done upstream.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u327	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u328	As with FPMO, the interprofessional approach is based on very specific elements.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u329	Mrs Martine Leguille-Balloy has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u330	Let me return to my amendment, since the rapporteur has not fully responded to it. I fully agree, since I proposed it myself: as long as the indicators are to be published, if we realize that this is not the case, the interprofessional approach is taken to the technical institute. But can interprofession legally operate a technical institute? Shouldn't we go through an official body? We had thought about the Minister of Agriculture, but it may not be his role. In order to avoid any ambiguity, we have therefore proposed that the Ombudsman for Agricultural Trade Relations should be able to carry out the task of the Technical Institute.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u331	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u332	Mrs Leguille-Balloy, I promised you an answer. I have given an opinion against your amendment because it concerns agricultural and agri-food technical institutes. As for the mediator, his referral does not seem necessary: if one of the interprofessional colleges, for example the agricultural college, considers that there has been a failure, it is this college that can directly challenge the technical institute for the purpose of creating the cost-of-production indicator.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u333	Mr Julien Dive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u334	Mr rapporteur, it is well known that the technical institutes are, by definition, intended to work on the technical aspects specific to each sector: I am thinking of the beet technical institute which has worked on the beet virus, or of the issues related to the fight against climate hazards, etc. Our debate is about cost of production indicators, which refer to economic issues, taking into account an economic model and all costs. So philosophy is not at all the same. Mr rapporteur, will you, through this amendment, increase the role of all the technical institutes present in our territory? With what means?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u335	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u336	Mr Dive, thank you for your invitation to visit your department's beet technical institute. When looking for alternatives to R&D, technical institutes have an obligation to specify the costs that these solutions will entail. With regard to means, it is not for the State to finance technical institutes, even though it participates in them through the special allocation account for agricultural and rural development (CASDAR). It is farmers who finance technical institutes through their contributions. If necessary, they would have to cover the additional funding requirements for the creation of cost-of-production indicators.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u337	They're already doing it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u338	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u339	Mr. Nicolas Turquois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u340	I would like to give my testimony, which is based on a certain expertise of everyday life: the technical institutes with which I work always have a technical-economic approach.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u341	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u342	A technical choice cannot be considered without taking into account its techno-economic consequences – for example, the cost of a product that should be added or the interest in implementing the technique and the time to be devoted to it. This is an integral part of the approach of the technical institutes. Of course, twenty or twenty-five years ago, their approach was strictly technical and sometimes unrelated to our own agricultural practices. I do not claim to know the work of all the technical institutes, but I can tell you that today those who deal with plant production always have a technico-economic approach. They therefore seem to me to be very relevant in order to give an opinion on the indicators to be taken into account.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u343	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u344	I said earlier: FPMO uses two methods to estimate production costs in agriculture. It is based on the FADN, and on the agricultural technical institutes which take into account all the costs, both capital and labour, even specifying that they work in general, with the exception of common wheat, on the basis of two SMIC/UTH – human work unit. Technical institutes do this work, in particular at the request of the OFPM; It's a function they're already performing.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u345	A very nice step forward!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u346	I put to the vote sub-amendment No 495.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u347	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 56 Number of votes cast 52 Absolute majority 27 For adoption 52 Against 0
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u348	That's Stalinist!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u349	I put to the vote Amendment No 372, as amended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u350	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 55 Number of votes cast 53 Absolute majority 27 For adoption 53 Against 0
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u351	Amendment No 396 by Mr André Chassaigne is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u352	I have before me three identical amendments, Nos 118, 119 and 330. I call Mr Turquois to support Amendment No. 118.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u353	This amendment tabled by my colleague Philippe Vigier aims to amend paragraph 30, by providing, in addition to the possibility of derogating from the obligation to conclude a written contract, for derogations from the minimum duration of contracts and the clause on automatic price revision arrangements which appear to be inadequate for certain sectors – I am thinking in particular of plant production.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u354	Mr Julien Dive has the floor to support Amendment No. 119.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u355	After the debates we have had in committee, it is a matter of going a little further by allowing certain sectors, such as the cereals or oilseeds sector, to be able to derogate from the minimum period of three years. They need to be given some flexibility to avoid disrupting their economic model.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u356	Amendment No 330 by Mr Olivier Marleix is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee on these identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u357	Request for withdrawal, in favour of Amendment No 498 which I will defend immediately afterwards.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u358	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u359	Even if they are not written exactly the same way, these amendments meet the same objective as No 498, which I propose to give priority to. It will address the concerns of the oilseeds and cereal growers highlighted by Mr. Dive.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u360	Amendment No 498 of the committee is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u361	I put Article 1 to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u362	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 59 Number of votes cast 55 Absolute majority 28 For adoption 55 Against 0
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u363	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u364	I call Mrs Leguile-Balloy to support Amendment No. 469.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u365	It concerns the information of the co-operator partners. The protection of producers' remuneration necessarily depends on the transparency of price construction, as well as on the stability and prospects offered by the contract. These are the essential foundations for the restoration of trust between the various links in the sectors. The EGALIM Law provides for transparency of contracts and framework agreements, particularly for OPs and PDOs, without transfer of ownership. Thus, a producer who has entrusted the marketing of its production, without transfer of ownership, to an OP, is made available all the constituent elements of the contract, both in terms of volumes and prices. These are particularly important factors in the direction of production. For OP member co-operators with transfer of ownership, these elements are not the subject of systematic information. With the obligation of multi-annual written contracting, it is essential and fair, in the interests of transparency and trust and for the best management of the holding, that all producers, including co-operator partners – who regularly address the Members to tell them of the difficulties encountered –, regardless of the method of marketing chosen, have all the mandatory information provided for by the cooperatives' internal regulations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u366	Mr Roland Lescure, chairman of the Committee on Economic Affairs, has the floor to give the Committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u367	The issue of cooperatives has been raised on numerous occasions in the committee where I have proposed, with the consent of all groups, the creation, at the beginning of the year, of an information mission designed to assess all the stakes of the single system – which is very positive – of cooperatives. That is why I ask you to withdraw your amendment and, of course, to join in this mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u368	I have before me fourteen amendments, No 71 corrected, 105 corrected, 240 corrected, 460 corrected, 62 corrected, 170 corrected, 395 corrected, 202, 224, 228, 273, 411, 462 and 481, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 71 corrected, 105 corrected, 240 corrected and 460 corrected are identical, as are Amendments Nos 62 corrected, 170 corrected and 395 corrected and Amendments Nos 202, 224, 228, 273, 411, 462 and 481. Mr Jean-Pierre Vigier has the floor to support Amendment No 71, as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u369	The mandatory contracting with the inclusion of EGALIM indicators and the addition of an automatic revision clause based on the fluctuation in the price of raw materials is an important first step in encouraging the actors in the beef sector to make concrete progress – finally – in terms of the distribution of value. But it's not enough. That is why it is proposed here to add a layer, if I may say so, of transparency, particularly in beef contracts: in these contracts, and in strict compliance with competition rules, the mention of a "price tunnel" could be made mandatory.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u370	Mr Dominique Potier has the floor to support Amendment No 105, as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u371	We have started discussing this innovation in committee, with the rapporteur being open to this proposal from the National Bovine Federation (NBF). As with the SRP with the EGALIM 1 law, a logic of experimentation should be adopted. It would be not an obligation but a faculty. We need to be kind, confident – you have consistently advocated trust relationships – with the ETF arguing that long-term production, over long cycles, involves a certain degree of visibility. It therefore accepts the principle of a price tunnel. I welcome here the sense of responsibility of beef producers who do not demand the setting of floor prices but the introduction of this tunnel, which will enable them to take account of the realities of the market and the evolution of the production apparatus or the conditions imposed on them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u372	I call Mr Luc Lamirault to support Amendment No. 240, as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u373	The aim of these identical amendments is to establish a price tunnel for the beef and veal sector, and this may need to be considered for other sectors. Such a system would avoid the volume race and would ensure a certain visibility for beef producers whose activities are carried out in very long cycles.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u374	Mrs Martine Leguille-Balloy has the floor to support Amendment No. 460, as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u375	The need for a price tunnel has already been demonstrated, but I think it is essential to recall that contracting in the beef and veal sector is a novelty – apart from the label. However, if this process has been requested, it is mainly in order not to scare the industry and provided that the contract-making process is quickly formalised. Producers, if the elements of the discussion are not fixed, consider that the application of the proposed scheme would allow for a much faster evolution of their situation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u376	In this joint debate, we are starting a new series of identical amendments; Amendments No 62, as corrected by Mr Vincent Descoeur and No 170, as corrected by Mr Pierre Morel - À- L'Huissier are defended. I call Mr André Chassaigne to support Amendment No. 395 as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u377	Several of us have taken up this idea suggested by the ETF. It also appears in the report submitted to Parliament by the Observatory for the Formation of Food Prices and Margins. Some productions alternate between good and bad years and are more or less able to compensate for each other – among other things, the Observatory mentions the pig, dairy, cereal, fruit and vegetable sectors. A second category consists of sectors that cover only exceptionally their production costs – this is the case for cattle farming. In the latter case, therefore, one can understand the producers' demand for a price tunnel to guarantee them an income that is not subject to fluctuations such that in the end they would not receive real income – which is often the case.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u378	On the last set of identical amendments to this joint debate, Nos 202, 224, 228, 273, 411, 462 and 481, I have before me a request for a public vote by the LaREM and LR groups. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. I call Mrs Beaudouin-Hubiere to support Amendment No. 202.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u379	I referred to this amendment in the general discussion and, as it has just been discussed at length about the introduction of a price tunnel, I will not go back to that. I would just point out that the inter-branch organisations concerned have been involved in its development. The amendment thus defines the conditions for testing a tunnel clause, with at least one cost of production indicator being taken into account, in order to provide for the minimum and maximum limits within which the price may vary.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u380	Amendment No 224 by Mr Dominique Potier is being defended. Mr Thierry Benoit has the floor to support Amendment No. 228.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u381	[[Ms. Martine Leguille-Balloy applauds]] Several of our colleagues recalled that the issue had been raised by the President of the National Bovine Federation. I am pleased, as I think it is, that the Government, the rapporteur, the deputies – whatever their tendency – accept this experiment. This is the best way to see what this famous price tunnel can do. Mr Ruffin is no longer there – this morning we discussed floor prices, ceiling prices, but if there were indeed a way to secure agricultural income, that would be good. In addition, the idea of experimentation has always held to heart the centrist I am. I therefore welcome the Government's proposal.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u382	That's a good proposal.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u383	I call Mr Luc Lamirault to support Amendment No. 273.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u384	Still in order to defend beef production and to take into account the long cycle which characterizes it, if the price tunnel which we proposed were not voted on, could we at least introduce an experiment entirely in the spirit of the text which extends the EGALIM law. In the same way, if this experiment were successful, we could extend the Besson-Moreau device...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u385	Amendment No 411 by Mr Paul Molac is being defended. Mr Julien Dive has the floor to support Amendment No. 462.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u386	We have been many in committee defending amendments aimed at setting up a price tunnel and we have agreed to withdraw them in order to make a consensus proposal at the sitting. It seems that we have achieved this with this series of identical amendments. The idea, which has just been recalled by our colleagues, is that the price tunnel ensures minimum stability for certain sectors while guaranteeing them a certain freedom – in particular to negotiate. Of course, it is not up to us to specify which sectors will be affected – we have worked with the one we know the most, the beef sector; There may be others that it will be up to an order-in-council to clarify. It is important to take into account this logic of experimentation – so many others have been launched with the EGALIM law in particular – which allows us to measure the functionality of the device, to draw conclusions that can go up to its sustainability. In any case, it allows a solution to a current problem.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u387	Mrs Michèle Crouzet has the floor to support Amendment No. 481.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u388	One can always be pleased with the experiment of a price tunnel: it is expected and, I hope, will be able to change the price of beef. We therefore wish, by this amendment, that a decree be published, in which the inter-branch organisations concerned would be involved; it would define the conditions for testing the use of a price tunnel clause by the parties to the contracts for the sale of agricultural products subject to the provisions of Article L. 631-24 of the Rural Code and the Maritime Fisheries Code.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u389	What is the opinion of the committee on this series of amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u390	I can only support the introduction of the concept of price tunnel in this bill to protect farmers' remuneration. We know very well the very great fragility of the beef sector – it is perhaps even the most difficult one. We can therefore only welcome the prospect of incorporating this price tunnel into the text. On the other hand, I will be against several amendments because I do not want the scheme to be mandatory for all sectors. I do not think it makes sense to impose it on sectors that are doing rather well. Therefore, compulsory experimentation seems to me to be the right solution, as well as the establishment of the channels concerned by decree, in the framework of a dialogue between them and the Government. I am therefore against the identical series of amendments No 71, corrected and subsequent, and No 62, corrected and subsequent, and in favour of the identical series of amendments No 202 et seq.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u391	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u392	I welcome the collegial work carried out by the professionals and Members of the various groups. This is a complicated subject, but the support of the identical series of amendments Nos 202 et seq. shows how far we have sought to go as far as possible without fear of considering regulatory mechanisms within a solid legal framework. It is not, in fact, a matter of voting a system that would be censored by the Constitutional Council... I would therefore welcome the adoption of Amendment No 202 and those identical to it, on the understanding that I am against the other two sets of identical amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u393	Mr. Stéphane Travert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u394	I welcome our unanimity on this issue. I remember that when we considered the EGALIM bill, amendments were already in line with those we are about to vote on. At the time, we chose to trust the inter-professions, the channels to complete all the negotiations. It must be noted that, while many of them have worked well, this is not the case for all of them. I therefore welcome Mrs Beaudouin-Hubiere's amendment, which we are going to vote for: it aims to establish this famous price tunnel, which is necessary to help sectors and interbranch to go even further. That is how we will succeed together in ensuring that farmers no longer sell below cost and that cost-of-production indicators facilitate real – and beautiful – negotiations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u395	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u396	Mrs Bénédicte Taurine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u397	As Mr Ruffin pointed out, the provision which the Commission and the Government supported did not correspond to what the deputies of the FI Group wished. However, for my part, I shall vote for identical amendments Nos 202 and 202 and following.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u398	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u399	Indeed, even if the proposed scheme does not go far enough, I am particularly committed to the beef and veal sector.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u400	It's a step in the right direction!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u401	I put to the vote identical amendments Nos 202, 224, 228, 273, 411, 462 and 481.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u402	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 55 Number of votes cast 55 Absolute majority 28 For adoption 55 Against 0
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u403	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u404	If that's not bisounour...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u405	Mrs Martine Leguille-Balloy has the floor to support Amendment No. 473 as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u406	He's forbidden. We have received a favourable response to our concerns about the functioning of co-operatives and the demands of co-operator partners. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u407	I have before me five identical amendments, Nos 73, 107, 149, 242 and 398. Mr Jean-Pierre Vigier has the floor to support Amendment No. 73.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u408	OP members with transfer of ownership in the beef and veal sector are often not informed of how their OPs determine prices. That is why this amendment aims to reinforce this transparency obligation by asking OPs to inform their members about the price tunnels used in contracts with buyers, by category of animal.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u409	Identical amendments Nos 107 by Mr Dominique Potier, 149 by Mrs Anne-Laure Blin, 242 by Mr Antoine Herth and 398 by Mr André Chassaigne are being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u410	In the light of Amendment No 202, which we have just voted on, we are not in favour of the price tunnels.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u411	Mrs Martine Leguille-Balloy has the floor in support of Amendment No. 475.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u412	It is always the same concern, which we would like to make up for with amendments: the fact that industrialists use indicators in their mix-products that are not in favour of the final result for farmers' payments. I think I already have my answer, but I would really like to think about this issue of the choice of mix products by industrialists. Perhaps the possibility of using a third party would be interesting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u413	I call Mr Potier to support Amendment No. 265.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u414	It takes up one of the proposals of Workshop 7 of the General States of Food and an amendment of the Socialist and related group in the debate on the EGALIM 1 law. It is a matter of making automatic the referral to the Minister of the Economy when the mediator of commercial relations has found the nullity of a contract considered unlawful.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u415	I have before me several identical amendments, Nos 25, 53, 65, 136, 183, 203, 275, 293, 309, 324, 376, 420, 433, 443 and 463. Mr Julien Dive has the floor to support Amendment No. 25.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u416	Just as we have had a debate in committee that has produced some articles on the transparency and veracity of the information given to consumers, in particular on the origin of the products, it is important for consumers to know what is given to the producer throughout the value chain. In order to avoid false claims or misleading information, it is essential to use the same indicators as those provided for in Article L. 631-24 of the Rural Code for the industrial or distributor to provide information on the fair remuneration of farmers. A moment ago someone spoke of "consumer", and I myself said that the consumer must use not only his purchasing power but also his power to pay. We are typically in the subject with these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u417	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u418	The identical amendments No. 53 by Mr Vincent Descoeur, 65 by Mr Emmanuel Maquet, 136 by Mr Thibault Bazin, 183 by Mr Yves Hemedinger, 203 by Mr Fabien Di Filippo, 275 by Mrs Nathalie Serre, 293 by Mrs Emmanuelle Anthoine, 309 by Mr Thierry Benoit, 324 by Mrs Valérie Bazin-Malgras and 376 by Mr Fabrice Brun were defended. Mr Jean-Pierre Vigier has the floor to support Amendment No. 420.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u419	It is important that the consumer is aware of the cost of production. I make a wish: a fair redistribution of margins throughout the industry so that the producer is not the only adjustment variable. This transparency throughout the industry is important, and the basis for this is that the consumer knows the proportion of the producer.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u420	Identical amendments No 433 by Mrs Josiane Corneloup, 443 by Mrs Isabelle Valentin and 463 by Mr Julien Dive are being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u421	Unfavorable opinion. You ask for an automatic referral to the mediator in case of conflict. I think it's more up to the DGCCRF to respond. If the mediator were automatically seized, first he would be overstretched because his means are far less important than those of the DGCCRF, then he would simply appeal to the Minister who would appeal to the DGCCRF.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u422	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u423	I believe much in mediation, which we need to strengthen even by going a step further, hence the following articles on the dispute resolution committee. I see exactly the meaning of these amendments. This year, as we put a lot of pressure in the tube, mediation has seen many cases happen, much more than the previous year, and that's very good. More needs to be done: this is the case with the Dispute Resolution Committee. When mediation fails to conclude, it is often observed that the parties, including the weakest of both, do not dare to request an end to mediation; However, until the end of mediation is requested, the Ombudsman may not refer the matter to the competent court for conclusion. We will resolve this issue through the resolution of disputes in the committee. What makes me uncomfortable with these amendments is that they make mediation play another role, that of verifying the veracity of allegations. In this case, he is no longer a mediator. While mediation must be mutually agreed upon, it does not have the power to investigate allegations held by each other, which would completely change its role. In addition to the FRCCB, the Dispute Resolution Committee will now be available for review. I call for the amendments to be withdrawn in the light of what I have just explained, while referring the discussion to Rule 3 on the dispute settlement committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u424	Mr Thierry Benoit's Amendment No 319 is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u425	I have before me several amendments, Nos 11, 26, 66, 77, 113, 128, 138, 160, 184, 204, 239, 253, 295, 311, 325, 382, 421, 434, 444 and 477, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 11, 26, 66, 77, 113, 128, 138, 160, 184, 204, 239, 253, 295, 311, 325, 382, 421, 434 and 444 are identical. Mrs Anne-Laure Blin has the floor in support of Amendment No 11.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u426	To ensure the neutrality and indisputability of indicators, as we have said, inter-professions are fundamental. These amendments aim to strengthen the role of the FPMO, which is still too little visible by operators. Of course, the FPMO provides an annual report containing a great deal of relevant information on price formation and margins in the food chain, but there is no real operational document for farmers, professional organisations or a company. These amendments therefore provide for a document which would include all the indicators of the sectors, thus ensuring a synthesis of the work carried out in the various interbranch industries.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u427	Identical amendments Nos. 26 by Mr Dino Cinieri, 66 by Mr Emmanuel Maquet, 77 by Mr Vincent Descoeur, 113 by Mrs Anne-Laure Blin, 128 by Mr Paul Molac, 138 by Mr Thibault Bazin, 160 by Mr Jacques Cattin, 184 by Mr Yves Hemedinger and 204 by Mr Fabien Di Filippo were defended. I call Mr Luc Lamirault to support Amendment No. 239.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u428	We stress the need for inter-branch organisations to define indicators. It was decided earlier that, failing that, the technical institutes would be the technical institutes. The aim of this amendment is to organise information among as many people as possible, and this is done by the OFPM.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u429	I call Mr Thierry Benoit to support Amendment No. 253.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u430	As a follow-up to what I mentioned earlier on the FPMO, referring even more precisely to his work is important, but entrusting him with a forward-looking mission would also deserve a reflection on your part, Minister, you who are an innovative minister...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u431	A good minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u432	... and who have ideas, as they say, and who are, in a word, a good minister of agriculture: you are in the right place, at the right time! Consideration needs to be given to an increased role for the MFPO.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u433	Identical amendments Nos 295 by Mrs Emmanuelle Anthoine, 311 by Mrs Nathalie Serre, 325 by Mrs Valérie Bazin-Malgras, 382 by Mr Fabrice Brun, 421 by Mr Jean-Pierre Vigier, 434 by Mrs Josiane Corneloup and 444 by Mrs Isabelle Valentin are defended. Mrs Martine Leguille-Balloy has the floor in support of Amendment No. 477.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u434	This is the same proposal as my colleagues, except that I am content to say that the MFPO must publish a catalogue of indicators every quarter. Everyone has to publish; whether it is published in a common compendium will certainly be much more effective and practical for everyone, not only when indicators are not published by the interprofession.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u435	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u436	Unfavorable opinion on all the amendments except point 477 by Mrs Leguille-Balloy for the reasons we have put forward on the technical institutes. Mr Chassaigne had earlier the report of the OFPM, much expected of many parliamentarians. It is wise and useful for Amendment No 477 to be voted on because this publication is extremely important to us in order to monitor the evolution of the indicators of the cost of production of farmers.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u437	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u438	Amendment No 477, which has been reworked in relation to the other amendments, goes a step further for two reasons. Firstly, because the others only provide for publication if the interbranch does not publish. A single medium is a source of simplicity: this is an argument in favour of this amendment. Secondly, identical amendments Nos 11 et seq. propose the publication of a periodic medium by the OFPM, whereas Amendment No 477 proposes a quarterly publication, which I believe is preferable. All in all, I give a wise opinion on all these amendments under joint discussion, while stressing that Amendment No 477 goes further and seems clearer to me.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u439	Mrs Anne-Laure Blin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u440	Thank you for your wisdom, minister. [[Minister protested]] To say the least, the political tambaille is ill-advised on such a subject. Our group defends proposals and contributes to the debate. Rewrite amendments to avoid adopting group proposals The Republicans are really low...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u441	Oh, here! I'd rather not answer!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u442	I call Mr Potier to support Amendment No. 188.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u443	[[Smile]] This amendment, I was almost certain that the majority would not write it down! It entrusts the OFPM with the task of submitting to Parliament every three years a report on the state of working conditions and levels of remuneration within the food chain. The report would also list concrete proposals aimed at improving working conditions and increasing the level of remuneration for farmers and workers in the upstream and downstream food sectors. As we know, in the agri-food sector, especially in large-scale distribution, unworthy working conditions and wages remain. I repeat, I condemn any strictly corporatist approach to these matters, particularly with regard to the fair price of food. Throughout the production chain, all workers must be paid at a satisfactory level. I am therefore shocked that agricultural producers are considered to be a uniform whole when they are characterized by a diversity of income and working conditions. I also regret that, in our debate, we are dealing with the working conditions of agricultural and agri-food workers.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u444	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u445	Your fight is legitimate, Mr. Potier, and the findings you make are correct, but I'm not sure that the working conditions are under the responsibility of the MFPO. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u446	It's an appeal amendment!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u447	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u448	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u449	Mr Dominique Potier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u450	Working conditions in the food chain may then be the responsibility of another body. We would have appreciated a proposal in this regard. We all want to move quickly on to the bill, but let me say a few more words. In order to work on the application of the European directive on the duty of vigilance and on working conditions in production chains, I can testify that we are poor on these issues. On the ecological transition, we are informed by the Ecological Transition Agency, ADEME. The Ministry of Labour, Employment and Integration, on the other hand, has no agency working on working conditions. Yet we would need scouts to support us in our reflection on the ecological and social transition. The forthcoming presidential election could be a welcome opportunity to propose the creation of an ecological and social transition agency to accompany the professional changes of farmers and workers in terms of working conditions and remuneration. In any case, the subject deserves to be considered. Minister, in the 1960s, your predecessors invented the National Centre for the Development of Farm Structures (CNASEA) to support professional change. In the next few years, in the agri-food sector, industrial sectors will be closed and others will be created. Our society must be able to support these developments in which we are disarmed today.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u451	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u452	Mr Potier, your speech gives me the opportunity to recall that the French Government wishes to include a social aspect in the common agricultural policy – I will be in Luxembourg this weekend to continue negotiations on the new CAP. It is a fight that is particularly close to my heart, but, to my astonishment, France is not always followed by the other countries in this will. It seems clear to me, however, that a social basis must complement the basic principles of CAP policies. France is very active in promoting this idea within the Council.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u453	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u454	It is not only about its values, but also about the need to combat unfair competition within the common market.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u455	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u456	I support my colleague Dominique Potier's amendment. It should be noted, however, that for the first time, a national agricultural collective agreement for farm and agri-food workers was signed this year. It has been applied for two months and has been signed by all trade union organisations. This is an important step. However, working conditions are terrible in this sector, particularly in slaughterhouses. To the extent that more and more foreign workers are being called upon through temporary agencies.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u457	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u458	The work here is absolutely scary! Individuals are broken by the race for productivity and moral pressure. It seems to me very important that we be fully informed about the working conditions of employees in the food sector. A few years ago, I organized a symposium on this subject in the National Assembly with the National Federation of Agri-Food and Forestry (FNAF-CGT). I was wiped out by the testimony of employees in the agri-food industry.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u459	Mr. Stéphane Travert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u460	I'm asking you for a moment, Mr. President, because I lost my glasses. [[Smile]] They were on my head. I'm like the Prime Minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u461	You've got them on your nose!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u462	Article 2 is important because it improves the transparency of the cost of buying the agricultural raw material by the industrialist. First of all, the remuneration we have mentioned in committee provides for the implementation of a poster to provide consumers with information on the conditions under which producers pay for their agricultural products. The transparency mechanism is then based on the 10 % threshold from which agricultural raw materials and processed products which form part of a product are included in this scheme. The transparency of the cost of buying the agricultural raw material by the industrialist finally requires a reference, in the general conditions of sale, to the existence or otherwise of a contract for agricultural raw materials. This commitment to transparency will improve the confidence we need to successfully conduct trade negotiations. I will, on behalf of the Republic on the move, introduce an amendment on the prohibition of tariff discrimination for food suppliers in the absence of real counterparts. Article 2 is important and will undoubtedly make it possible to move trade negotiations forward in the right direction.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u463	Mr Julien Dive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u464	We are dealing with an important article in the draft law, which concerns the transparency of the framework of the cost of buying agricultural raw materials. However, I would like to alert our House to the problem that could arise from an amendment by the rapporteur adopted in committee. This amendment provides in particular for the introduction of a derogation by decree for certain food products or categories of products because of the specificities of the different production lines concerned, but there is no other element justifying or regulating the action of the regulatory power on this point. I would like to draw your attention to this difficulty, ladies and gentlemen. This should be corrected in the course of our debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u465	I call Mr Potier to support Amendment No. 260.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u466	These are once again tripartite conventions. The Association of Prepared Food Companies (ADEPALE) alerts us about the price of raw materials, which is a non-negotiable base in the contract with suppliers. ADEPALE calls for the non-negotiability of the cost of agricultural materials to be transposed to the downstream contract. Enterprises in the food processing sector, whether they are SMEs – small and medium-sized enterprises – or mid-sized enterprises – or multinationals, face the pressure of what is called "the oligarchy of large distribution", consisting of five or six purchasing centres. They call for two measures and, in doing so, open an interesting path. These measures concern, on the one hand, the basic price of raw materials, which affects the dignity of the earth's workers and the conditions of production – we have widely discussed – and, on the other hand, the investments linked to the ecological transition and the new health constraints, which are two key areas for the diversity and anchoring of these enterprises in our territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u467	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u468	Unfavorable opinion. This amendment would limit full transparency to the general terms and conditions of sale, with the actual price paid. The aim of the bill is of course to impose certain constraints, but the constraint does not automatically justify an open book. In addition, it can also be guaranteed by independent third parties, which can justify the price or price increase compared to the previous year when negotiating the contract between the industrialist and the distributor. We must preserve the freedom of industrialists to choose the mechanism of transparency that suits them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u469	I have before me five identical amendments, Nos 83, 133, 175, 214 and 482. Mr Jean-Pierre Vigier has the floor to support Amendment No. 83.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u470	The general terms and conditions of sale are the sole basis for the negotiation of the Single Convention. Article 2 of this draft law creates a single convention specifically dedicated to food products intended for general distribution, with the aim of securing farmers' incomes and combating the deflationary effects of the price war, which characterizes this distribution system, and with general conditions of sale dedicated to food products which will serve as the basis for negotiation. However, it should be made clear that the latter are only necessary where negotiations actually tend to sign a single agreement within the meaning of new Article L. 443-5 and Article L. 441-4 of the Commercial Code, relating to large distribution.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u471	Amendments Nos 133 by Mr Frédéric Descrozaille, 175 by Mr Jean-Luc Bourgeaux and 214 by Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel are defended. Mrs Michèle Crouzet has the floor to support Amendment No. 482.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u472	The Commission has excluded wholesalers from the single agreement created by Article 2 and specifically dedicated to food products intended for general distribution. For the sake of legal consistency, this amendment proposes to supplement the third paragraph of the article by specifying the general conditions of sale which will serve as a single basis for the negotiation of the new convention. In its current wording, this paragraph does not specifically target the general conditions of sale intended to serve as a basis for the negotiation of the new convention, as well as Article L. 441-4 of the Commercial Code, but applies to all general conditions of sale of food, including wholesalers. The result is a paradox: although it is excluded from the scope of the new convention, wholesalers will nevertheless be subject to the enhanced general conditions of sale specifically dedicated to the negotiation of the new large distribution agreement. It therefore appears necessary to clarify the wording of paragraph 3 by specifying that it applies only in the event that commercial negotiations are part of the application of Article L. 443-5 of the Commercial Code. It is therefore a change of consistency, at the initiative of my colleague Richard Ramos.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u473	What is the opinion of the committee on these identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u474	I'm asking for their withdrawal. The arguments relating to the legal consistency of the text and to wholesalers are entirely justified, but I shall present Amendment No 499 in a few moments, which aims at the same objective and which is more precise in its wording.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u475	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u476	The same opinion, in fact, but I do not want to suggest that we favour one amendment rather than another.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u477	[[Smile]] I didn't say anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u478	So I'll explain why. In fact, our approach is a little different from yours: with the identical amendments that you have just defended, you want to clarify that "the general conditions of sale" are the "grounds for the negotiation of the agreements subject to Articles L. 443-5 or L. 441-4" – which you have just mentioned, Mrs Crouzet. As for Amendment No 499, which we shall consider later, it is in line with the aim: it states that "this Article shall not apply to wholesalers within the meaning of Article L. 441-4 [...], or to certain foodstuffs or categories of products whose list is defined by decree [...]". It goes in concrete terms, right to the goal and without circumvolution, towards the objective that we have set ourselves. I wanted to make it clear.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u479	Ladies and gentlemen, of the 418 amendments tabled on this text, 246 remain to be considered.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u480	It's moving! Well done, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u481	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-24-O1318.u482	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Further consideration of the proposed law to protect farmers' remuneration. The meeting is adjourned.
