ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u1	Before we begin our work, I would like to inform you, ladies and gentlemen, that the President of the National Assembly received a letter from Mr Benjamin Griveaux, Member of Parliament for the fifth constituency of Paris, informing him that he was resigning his term as a Member of Parliament. Act is given of this resignation, which will be notified to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u2	The next item is the debate on the proposal for a law by Mrs Marie-Pierre Rixain and several of her colleagues to speed up economic and professional equality (No 4000 corrected, 4143).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u3	Mrs Marie-Pierre Rixain, rapporteur of the Committee on Social Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u4	"To some extent, women's empowerment has become a fact. Women today have access to almost all professions. It enjoys the same rights as human beings in social and political life [...] However, if we look more closely at it, this equality guaranteed by the principles is only formal. [...] Women are equal to men in law, but they are not equal in social assessment. If they date back to 1933, these words of Hannah Arendt, however, clearly describe the place of women in our economic, professional and social system, built more than seventy-five years ago, when, at the end of the Second World War, the great principles that still irrigate our collective organization were established. It was conceived on the basis of the traditional model of a full-time working father, with direct rights, and of the mother in the home, who worked between the upbringing of children and domestic chores, with derived rights related to her status as wife and mother. Built on such a paradigm, our society remains deeply unequal. Do we recall that women earn 28.5 per cent less than men, and that in a couple they earn 42 per cent less on average than their spouses? To these figures, I would add that women occupy only a limited number of trades and professional sectors, that the glass ceiling remains a reality, that low-skilled jobs and part-time work are the majority of women, and that poverty at work has three out of four times the face of a woman. The reasons for these figures are multiple and fall within a still archaic vision of the role of women in society. No, women's money is neither pocket money nor an income supplement.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u5	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u6	No, women's work is not an auxiliary activity. As much as men, women must be recognized as economic subjects of their own right because, just as much as men, women contribute to the wealth of our country. In Simone de Beauvoir's words, women's economic and financial autonomy is "the guarantee of their independence [...], the basis on which they can claim civil rights [...] and find their happiness at the same time as their freedom. » The effectiveness of this right requires proactive policies that provide opportunities for individuals as well as for society. This is what I claim to be doing with this bill – with humility, because I am fully aware of the limitations of such a legislative vehicle and the work that we still have to do, but I am determined to make it very practical to facilitate the daily lives of women in the diversity of their lives. This text is the result of four years of work as MP and Chair of the Delegation for Women's Rights and Equal Opportunities for Men and Women. I would like to thank all the groups that make up the parliamentary majority for co-signing this text, a collective effort: the Republic on the move, the Democratic Movement (MODEM) Group and related democrats, the Take Action Group. I would add that he would probably not have reached the stage of the public sitting without the support of Christophe Castaner, president of the La République group on the move.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u7	Good thing he was here!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u8	I would like to thank him, to commend his involvement and the sincerity of his commitment to equality between women and men. This bill is in line with the Act of 13 July 1965, which abolished the husband's prior authorization for a wife to work and open a bank account. This act of emancipation and freedom must be completed by measures that give every individual the assurance of enjoying the income of his or her work and individual benefits. This is the subject of Articles 1 and 2, which provide for the obligation to pay wages and individual social benefits to a bank or postal account of which the beneficiary is the holder or co-owner. Since the aim of this text is to combat the assignments that determine the destiny of each individual, articles 3 and 4 are aimed at enabling women who wish to do so to gain easier access to the labour market. Persons taking parental leave or receiving the child's shared education benefit (PreParE) are 95 per cent of women. They are mostly in precarious or low-skilled employment, or are called inactive or unemployed before the birth of their child. This audience needs to draw our full attention while the unemployment rate of mothers of young children has increased by 40 per cent between 2014 and 2018. Article 3 advances the training offered to PreParE beneficiaries at the time their rights expire. Article 4, substantially extended in committee, seeks to promote access by single-parent families, and more generally by families furthest from employment, to appropriate forms of care. Focusing more specifically on single-parent families in this scheme is all the more relevant since 35 per cent of children in single-parent families have their parents unemployed, compared with 9 per cent in recomposed families and 6 per cent in so-called traditional families. This is why we have enshrined in the text the principle of nurseries for vocational integration (AVIP), in addition to the opening of the "social cradle" to single-parent families under the condition of resources. In order for women to enjoy the same opportunities as men, it is also essential to act in favour of a better balance in education and to combat gender biases which still shape too much choice. That is the meaning of section 5 of this bill. In the course of the discussion, I will present you with an amendment aimed at simplifying the scheme while at the same time simplifying it: all admission boards will now have to have at least 30 % of people of each sex. My ambition is clear: to enable all young women and men in our country to achieve their professional choices without encountering any stereotype of gender.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u9	It's not just your ambition, it's ours too!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u10	This fair representation, we work everywhere. In line with the Sauvadet Act, we have considerably strengthened the obligations of the public employer. The measures that frame our public service are among the most ambitious in the European Union. Without seeking to modify them in any way as they are just beginning to apply, the aim of this text is to ensure that the largest companies in our country also follow this path in order to reduce the wage inequalities which the index of occupational equality between men and women allows to measure. Articles 6 and 6 bis will allow us to take an additional course. Before I get to the next article, I want to take the time to pay tribute to the commitment and determination of my predecessor, Mrs Marie -Jo Zimmermann. Let us measure together the success of his approach: beyond his text, it is a logic that has been endorsed, allowing to correct the erasure of women in economic life, to correct the failure of our universalism towards women. With the introduction of quotas, women are now more than 46% on the boards of directors of large French companies, placing France behind Iceland at the global level in this area. Yet, ten years later, women at the head of large companies in France still rely on the fingers of one hand. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I propose that you write a new page under section 7 of this bill. We propose an ambitious scheme: to measure the share of women in the management bodies of companies with more than 1000 employees, and to set targets for them, at a realistic rate, in order to achieve a fair representation of each sex. The share of women in the governing bodies of these companies would increase to 30 per cent within five years and then to 40 per cent within eight years. This rhythm seems to me to be the right one to instill this joint momentum in our companies. The sharing of economic power must be actively reinvented within companies. Remember that the mix of economic governance – and therefore corporate leaders – is certainly an issue of professional equality and social justice, but it is also a lever of performance and growth for companies. Let us also remember the mantra of the collective Sista: "We must count women for women to count. This is what I propose to you, through Articles 8 and 8a, which reinforce the objectives of representation of women in Bpifrance's investment committees and investment funds, as well as the share of women beneficiaries of their actions. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM groups and Action ens]] In conclusion, let me quote Virginia Woolf: "And as I wrote this review, I realized that if I wanted to make literary criticism, I would have to defeat a certain ghost. This ghost was a woman, and when I came to know her better, I gave her the name of the heroine of a well-known poem, the angel of the home. Killing the angel in the home was part of the writer's job. This ghost continues to roam and remains an obstacle for many women seeking to free themselves from the constraints created by powerful social rules. So, once the last social, economic and political bastions are conquered, it remains for each of us to accept the great adventure of being ourselves and killing the angel of the home, day after day.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u11	The Minister for Gender Equality, Diversity and Equal Opportunities has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u12	I am very pleased to be here before you to speak on a bill that, I have the firm conviction, once adopted, will enter the pantheon of our collective history. There are laws that really transform – I insist on this word – our society. These are laws in advance of their time and, when we look in the rearview mirror, they take on the appearance of revolution. This is the case with this bill: it is a necessary piece of legislation, given the long way we have to go to achieve parity. This long path is, however, part of the path of the Revolution and the values of equality, freedom and fraternity that cement our republican pact. But equality does not decree, does not spring as if by magic from a society that remains, in many respects, patriarchal, sexist and discriminating. Much has been done and much remains to be done, including in our country, so that equality becomes real and concrete. Thanks to you, dear Marie-Pierre Rixain, thanks to President Christophe Castaner and all the deputies who support this bill, we are moving from words to deeds. Others fought before us to advance equality, not without encountering obstacles. Let us recall, for example, the difficulties encountered by Yvette Roudy in 1983 with his bill amending the Labour Code and the Penal Code with regard to professional equality between women and men: his bravery and stubbornness had not been right in a French society that was still a little flimsy on the subject. Thirty years later, Marie-Jo Zimmermann will face the same difficulties, but the law on the balanced representation of women and men on the boards of directors and supervision and on professional equality, known as the Copé-Zimmermann law, will come into being thanks to its pugnacity and that of Jean-François Copé. Thanks to them, the boards of directors of the CAC40 companies have dramatically feminized. They had barely 10 per cent of women in 2009, a rate that has risen to 44.6 per cent today. France is on the highest stage of the European podium and second at the world level, just behind Iceland. This is a true collective pride. And who today would dare to go back, who would risk seeing this progress called into question? The purpose of the bill we are looking at is to go even further by addressing all women: from those in precarious situations to those in leadership positions. What our country succeeded ten years ago with the Copé-Zimmermann Act, Parliament is proposing to amplify it. And if we are here today, it is that economic equality unfortunately remains an exception, not the rule. In the world, men hold 50 per cent more wealth than women; According to UN Women, 51 per cent of working women are in precarious employment internationally. And women perform more than three quarters of domestic work, which is obviously neither remunerated nor recognized. In France, with equal skills and positions, the wage gap between women and men is 9%. In addition, 78 per cent of part-time jobs, the majority of which are held by women, are held by women. Finally, women receive pensions that are 42 per cent lower than those of men. That is why I tell you with determination: these inequalities are no longer acceptable. They are all the less so since women have been and are still at the forefront of the triple health, economic and social crisis that we are going through. Reestablishing equality is therefore not to give them a favor; Re-establishing equality is not only about redressing injustice, but also about improving business performance, efficiency and attractiveness. This bill embraces the very broad spectrum of equality between women and men. From the position of women in corporate leaders to support single-parent families, to female entrepreneurship, the text is addressed to all women in our country. Let me turn to Article 7, which is the subject of great attention. Like other members of the Government, I have had the opportunity to express my support for binding measures to accelerate women's entry into strategic positions in the company. I am convinced that we need proactive and ambitious measures to achieve this objective. It is that, after so many years of hoping that women will be recognized for their talents and skills, I believe that gender bias remains tenacious and that we need an acceleration to transform society sustainably and finally make it more just and equal. The attention given to Article 7 is understandable because the idea of imposing quotas sometimes gives rise to concerns, but it is necessary in the light of our purpose: to make up for a delay linked to inequalities deeply rooted in mentalities and behaviour. And we will be both ambitious and realistic about how long it takes to achieve our goals. That is why, in parallel, we must continue to think and put in place mechanisms to deal at the root with mechanisms that replicate or reinforce inequalities. Education and training, for example, are the primary levers. This is the subject of several other articles, and I welcome them. Because I have observed it in my previous business life, I know that one of the major obstacles to the advancement of women's careers is access to a childcare solution. This is a fact: 85% of single-parent families are women with children and 700000 of them live below the poverty line. Together with Adrien Taquet, the Government had reduced the cost of maternal assistants, especially for single women with children, by 30 per cent, by increasing the amount of the supplement to the childcare system. We are also strengthening support for the creation of new crèche places in the neighbourhoods, through an increase in aid to the communes, effective since 1 January. Article 4 clearly supports single-parent families by reserving childcare places to enable them to find a job, to create an activity or to participate in professional support measures. In this spirit, article 3 provides useful access to vocational training arrangements for the beneficiaries of the child's shared education benefit from the end of their right to such a benefit. I fully subscribe to this because it is essential to help women who are out of work as a result of their motherhood. I will conclude on a point that is particularly close to my heart: women's entrepreneurship. In this area too, which is synonymous with emancipation, inequalities persist. For example, biases are used when it comes to women accessing financing to start and grow their businesses and cause women to have 30 per cent less chances of their demand for financing to succeed than men. I recently renewed with Bpifrance the framework agreement on the promotion and financing of female entrepreneurship in the territories. It is crucial to help our entrepreneurs who create activity, jobs and contribute directly to women's economic empowerment. By pursuing the same end, Article 8 provides for objectives of mix in the policy of support for the creation and development of enterprises, supported by Bpifrance, in particular in the composition of investment committees as well as the management teams of beneficiary projects. As you can see, public actors are therefore very committed to this project. Ladies and gentlemen, the fight for parity is not an ideological battle: it is neither on the left nor on the right, it does not oppose women to men nor one generation to another and it is not a question of ticking a box in a CSR report (corporate social responsibility) at the end of the year or fighting for half of the sky. The fight for parity is a social issue that concerns us all, an issue of justice, of valuing skills and of performance; It is a permanent cultural challenge for all of us, ultimately, to live in a more inclusive and egalitarian society. This text is balanced and it accompanies the economic world in this process of progress towards parity. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM groups and Action ens]] Our country has the opportunity to carry the torch of equality high. We have already done so in the past and the post-covid world once again requires that we have this courage and ambition that will change the lives of many women and inspire the world. Let us seize this opportunity: this text does not remove any right from anyone and its adoption will grow the entire society. I welcome the work already done after a remarkable process of consultation. The Government supports this bill and I look forward to participating in the debate on each of the amendments that you will be submitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u13	In the general debate, Mr. Stéphane Viry spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u14	We are considering a bill to accelerate economic and professional equality. I would like to express to you the pleasure with which I am speaking on behalf of my group on this text, which makes a contribution to ensuring that women enjoy the same professional recognition as men. Last week's work in committee changed the text very widely, with the creation of eight new articles and the rewriting of eight of the nine initial articles – I will come back to that. Madam rapporteur, as I told you last week during our work in committee, I am telling you again: in view of the communication from the President of the Republic on equality between women and men, the great cause of his quinquennium, it would have been a mistake for the presidential majority not to submit any text to the House on the subject. I note, however, that it was not until the beginning of the fifth year of the quinquennium to obtain a proposal for a law on professional and economic equality between women and men. This bill sounds like an absolute proof: the same work, the same salary and the same professional recognition. It is an ongoing legislative process, undertaken for several years, to revoke the fact that women are paid less than men, for, I insist, identical work. In 2008, under Nicolas Sarkozy's quinquennium, the Constitution introduced the principle that the law promotes equal access of women and men to electoral mandates and elected office, as well as to professional and social responsibilities. In 2006, the right had already passed a first law on equal pay for women and men. Nor should we forget the Pension Reform Act of 2010, which obliges companies with more than 50 employees to sign an agreement or action plan for occupational equality. Let us not forget the Coppé-Zimmermann law of 2011, mentioned earlier, which set a quota of women on the boards of directors and supervision of companies. This bill has several objectives. The first is to offer more support to single-parent families for child care, since it is often the absence of this possibility that favours women's inactivity. It is then a question of better balancing education and combating gender bias, because no, a woman with a child is no less competent than a woman without a child, and no, a woman is no less competent than a man, regardless of profession and professional investment. These unconscious gender biases remain the cause of many inequalities. It is still a matter of supplementing the Coppé-Zimmermann law which has produced effects, as has been said, since the boards of directors of the largest French companies are made up of 40% women. Finally, the aim is to put in place new measures in enterprises to enable greater transparency and to promote the position of women. These few innovations are intended to reduce and eventually eliminate the gap between women and men, particularly in terms of wages. The observation is clear: on average, women earn 10 per cent less than men in the equivalent position. This is unacceptable. Today, as you pointed out, Madam Minister Delegate, women are finding it increasingly difficult to be financed by the major venture capital funds, and none of them presides over a company registered with the CAC40. Several explanations for this: women occupy 80 per cent of part-time jobs in order to reconcile family and working life; 85% of single-parent families are made up of single mothers and access to childcare is far from satisfactory and affordable, as I have just said. Continuing political action to improve the position of women in society and in business, by promoting their development, including their access to positions of responsibility and even high responsibility, is therefore a necessity. I regret, however, that this bill does not take into account certain subjects such as part-time work or the economic upgrading of feminized occupations. Having said that, I agree that pragmatism or realism means taking into account the ability of companies to integrate new constraints. Madam rapporteur, let me finally say to you that, in my personal capacity, I regret the way in which this text came before the national representative. While, on behalf of the delegation to women's rights and equal opportunities for men and women, we were in the midst of a fact-finding mission on professional and economic equality, you have made the choice of interrupting them and defending this bill alone with the majority group and its allies. I regret this method, which does not bring anything positive, when all the Members of the delegation, from all the groups, have brought their stone to the building. I would also like to commend the work of our colleague Laurence Trastour-Isnart, who has been very involved in this fact-finding mission. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group and on some benches of the LaREM group]] The proposed law accelerates the possible responses to economic and occupational equality. This is a first step towards improving the situation of women. This text is intended to be enriched.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u15	Mrs Perrine Goulet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u16	As you pointed out, the cause of women must not be a variable of adjustment in these times of health, economic and social crisis. The confinement we have experienced has revealed the extreme fragility of the status of women. Of course, we are thinking of the first chores – nurses, cashiers, women farmers – but also of mothers on telework. This experience of our nation must lead us to change the law to ensure the place of women in society. Your bill, the rapporteur, has several mechanisms that will help advance this cause. The Assembly is thus preparing to supplement certain provisions of the Copé-Zimmermann Act, which provided for women's access to boards of directors. If companies' voluntarism is variable, the majority of them still want to go in the direction of history. We see it on a daily basis in our constituencies: societies show their achievements, ambitions and successes. It is now a question of going further in the incentive of companies – which, I repeat, are mostly voluntarist and convinced of the need to work towards the feminization of positions of responsibility. A major challenge will be to ensure that women are represented beyond the cross-cutting and supporting functions – such as communication or human resources – that are often reserved for them. It is a question of enabling them to also move towards the core business of companies, whether it is heavy industry, where more women are needed, or childcare, where more men are needed. At this stage, I think it is necessary to specify two elements. First of all, I want to express a regret: the first chores are less well taken into account in the text than the first of the ropes. Let us be clear: the issue of childcare places for single-parent families is essential. The recognition of AVIP nurseries in Article 4 of the text is a first step in this respect, but perhaps it would have been desirable to make others. It should be noted that aid policies for the least advantaged are often particularly costly and difficult to implement and that, in this area, a bill can only have a more limited impact than a bill. Secondly, the Group of the European Democratic Movement (MODEM) and the Group of the European People's Party (Allied Democrats) will endeavour to defend amendments aimed at ensuring greater progressivity in the measures applicable to companies, so that these provisions become more effective and effective without becoming a constraint for all companies and employees. I also want to express to you a doubt: the Government, in its action for the past four years, has several major texts to its credit. I am thinking in particular of the law on business growth and transformation, known as the PACTE law. In preparing my speech, I was thinking about the principle that the House had adopted on this occasion of submitting a report which could have shed some light on the current situation. Article 40 of the PACTE Act states that "in line with the actions of the chambers of commerce and industry in favour of equality between women and men and the promotion of women's entrepreneurship, the Government shall, by 1 January 2020 at the latest, submit to Parliament a report on the situation of women entrepreneurs and on the possibility of implementing measures at national level to support women entrepreneurs". The French administration produces many reports, but I did not have the opportunity to consult this one. Perhaps the Government can tell us if it exists. As you pointed out, the rapporteur: this bill is a text of humility, but also of concord. Let us be certain: it will not solve all the difficulties faced by women in their social and professional life. It is, however, another step on a road that we must, tirelessly, continue to survey. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group and on some benches of the LaREM group]] Finally, I would like to stress the open-mindedness of the rapporteur, who endorsed some of the proposals put to her in committee and allowed them to be adopted. I am thinking in particular of the fight against gender stereotypes in the choice of professions, which must be practised as soon as possible. It is therefore with confidence that my group and I are approaching the forthcoming debates.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u17	Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u18	Before I go into the details of the bill, I regret, as I did in committee – but this time in the presence of the Government – that we did not have before us a major bill on equality between women and men during this mandate. On 25 November 2017, the President of the Republic had made equality between women and men a major national cause of the quinquennium. In the economic field, this priority had found only a very marginal translation into the CAPTE law, which, however, was reforming many sectors. When, on December 3, 2019, Bruno Le Maire and Marlène Schiappa launched a public consultation entitled "Acting together for gender equality in the economy", we expected a bill to meet the challenge. This was not the case, and it is now through a proposal for a law, which by its nature is more limited, tabled by our colleague Marie-Pierre Rixain, that we are called upon to discuss the question of economic and professional equality. We regret that during this quinquennium legislative initiatives to advance women's rights have often had to be done by Parliament. On the contrary, I very sincerely welcome, on behalf of the Socialist and Related Group, the work of the rapporteur, who has dealt with this issue and made it possible for the text in committee to be substantially improved, thanks to her open-mindedness with regard to a number of proposals from the opposition. I am thinking, for example, of the possibility given to the beneficiaries of the child's shared education benefit to access vocational training arrangements prior to the end of the benefit, rather than at the end of the benefit. Our amendments on this point are in agreement. Thus, if the balance of the committee's text were to be preserved, our group would vote in favour of this bill. However, and this will not surprise the rapporteur, we believe that the ambition of this text can be strengthened and its implementation speeded up. The composition of selection boards or competitions in universities, so-called selective courses or procedures for access to the public service must finally reach parity. The diversity of the composition of these bodies – which goes beyond the question of the representation of each sex – is an essential condition for a fairer representation of our society, in particular of a fairer place for women, within the paths and professions concerned. The same applies to the position of women in the management bodies of enterprises. It is also an economic imperative: the first longitudinal studies carried out on the feminization of the governing bodies of Fortune 500 companies – the ranking of the top 500 American companies – already showed that the quartile of companies with the most feminized management teams had, on average, a return on equity of 35.1 % higher than that of the quartile of the least feminized companies. We will therefore propose that the requirement for companies with more than 1000 employees to have at least 30%, and then 40%, of representatives of each sex among the governing bodies, as provided for in Article 7, be replaced by a requirement for parity, preceded by an intermediate step providing for a minimum proportion of 40%. We will also ask for this obligation to be extended to companies with more than 250 employees and for the proposed timetable to be accelerated by two years, because our objective is to achieve real parity, which we believe is an opportunity for the company. We also believe that in the area of women's rights within the enterprise, certain areas have been forgotten in the bill, whether it concerns the fight against discrimination at work or the support of persons who are victims of domestic violence. We will therefore propose, like many of our colleagues, the compulsory appointment of a focal point in the delegation of staff to the Social and Economic Committee (ESC) to combat discrimination. Furthermore, in view of the delay in the ratification of International Labour Organization (ILO) Convention 190, we had submitted, at the request of several NGOs, including ActionAid, amendments aimed at improving the protection of women victims of domestic violence in their relations with their employers, facilitating their administrative procedures or helping them to obtain professional mobility. We also proposed legal leave to enable them to carry out the judicial, medical or social procedures necessary for their situation, or the possibility of breaking an employment contract without prior notice when a person has to extract from a dangerous context. We regret that these amendments have been declared inadmissible. Can you, Madam Minister Delegate, commit yourself to ratifying ILO Convention 190? [[Applause on the SOC benches and on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Finally, Madam rapporteur, I am aware of your long-standing commitment to these issues. I know that we can further advance this bill by adopting the measures that we are proposing to you.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u19	Mrs Annie Chapelier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u20	It is with great pride that I speak before you on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party on the proposal for a law by our colleague Marie-Pierre Rixain aimed at accelerating economic and professional equality between women and men. I would like to welcome, dear chair of the delegation on women's rights, the commitment that has been yours since the beginning of the legislature. Your pugnacity has allowed this text to succeed. Because it will guarantee women the free disposal of their income, because it will facilitate the return to employment after parental leave, because it will help to break the glass ceiling in access to high-level positions, because it will strengthen the mix in entrepreneurship and because it will offer new weapons to combat gender bias in professional choices – and this, from the college, thanks in particular to the adoption of Article 5 bis proposed by our group, which will improve the training of guidance counsellors on these issues – this text is of major importance in the fight against obstacles to women's economic and professional empowerment. "Each employer shall ensure equal pay for the same work or work of equal value between women and men. In quoting article L. 3221-2 of the Labour Code, I would like to point out that, for the emancipation of women, equal pay does not do everything: pay equity, i.e. equal pay for work of equal value, is another fight that concerns all women whose work is underestimated and considered to be natural or maternal, because it is linked to the social sector. The High Council for Equality between Women and Men (HCE) welcomed the adoption of this article, which calls for real work to be done in classifying the value of jobs. It is with the same determination that we must defend the rights of predominantly female trades. I also welcome the adoption in committee of several amendments tabled by our group, which will, in particular, make it possible to integrate periods of continuous training into the career path, to open up the right to priority places in nurseries for the children of women in precarious situations, or to increase the transparency of higher education institutions with regard to equality between women and men. These advances are welcome. For the same reasons, our group will be defending several amendments to Article 5, including the prevention of gender stereotypes and better communication by heads of institutions on equal opportunities. We hope to be heard on these points. Yet there are areas where everything remains to be done. I am thinking in particular of the audiovisual sector: 80 per cent of the invited experts on television sets, for example, are men. As we prepare to vote on corporate obligations, I wish, ladies and gentlemen, that we bear in mind our duty of exemplaryness: equality in the public service and in the political class must also be an objective. Let us not forget 50% of our population: since the French electorate is defacto parity, its representation by the elected representatives must be equal. The political integration of women reflects the vitality and quality of a democracy. By providing tools to promote this representativeness, we not only win women, but the whole of society: a world where women have a recognized place and a decision-making power similar to that of men is a better world for all. That is why I regret to see so few women in presidential cabinets, large state bodies or international meetings. Everywhere in power, men discuss with each other – the management and proper use of public money, international relations or, for example, the management of a global health and social crisis.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u21	It's still a little excessive!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u22	However, we cannot legislate on everything: exemplaryness and the search for balance are also a question of convictions, values and choices. Causes aren't just defending themselves with laws. Everyone knows the Chinese proverb that "women support half of the sky." It is together, on an equal footing, and not otherwise, that we are strong. Today it is up to us to decide whether we want to make our contribution to this tireless quest for rights. We have the opportunity to work, through this text that will really change the lives of many women, for our daughters and sons, for a more equal, equitable, respectful and dignified world. Let's be ambitious! Let's push our habits! Let us deconstruct the stereotypes step by step and do so, ladies and gentlemen, without any regrets – for we must only regret what we will not dare to do. [[Applause on the banks of the Action ens and LaREM groups]] That is why, as you will understand, our group will vote with conviction in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u23	Mrs Valérie Six has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u24	In 1791, Olympe de Gouges stated in the Declaration of the Rights of Women and Citizens: "Women are born free and remain equal to men in rights. We still have a long way to go to achieve equality between men and women. There have been notable advances, such as the Act of 13 July 1965, which allows women to open a bank account on their behalf and to work without the consent of their husbands, or the Copé-Zimmermann Act of 27 January 2011, which imposes 40 per cent of women on business boards. However, women still have much to do to achieve banking and financial autonomy. The text we are looking at today aims at accelerating economic and professional equality. I thank Marie-Pierre Rixain for the quality of her work. The hearings were very informative and rich in messages of hope. Our discussions in the Committee on Social Affairs have made some progress that I would like to welcome. The entry into force of the articles guaranteeing banking autonomy is foreseen one year after the publication of the law, and no longer two as originally foreseen in the text. I am delighted with the rewriting of Article 4, which incorporates and defines AVIP crèches, which accommodate at least 30% of their staff of children whose parents are job seekers and volunteers to engage in a job search that may include a period of training. I myself have tabled an amendment to this effect, which aims to reserve nursery places for parents who are taking up training or looking for a job. However, we know that the problem is broader. There are 446000 nursery places in France for 2.2 million children under 3 years of age. We need to invest more in early childhood services. In particular, I have tabled an amendment which encourages companies to propose nursery places. It is a win-win arrangement: by reserving daycare places for its employees, the company allows them to go to work much more serenely. The discussions in the committee also allowed for the inclusion in the text of agreements concluded between schools and universities aimed at promoting a balanced representation of women and men in education. I am very much in favour of this new article. I would suggest that we go further with an amendment calling for a report that sets out proposals to enhance the value of women teachers in the technological and vocational fields. We note that gender stereotypes persist, particularly in the choice of professional careers. Higher education must feel given a special role for diversity, as vocational guidance is mainly due to school guidance. Women are the majority in certain fields, such as social services or home help, in certain occupations, such as nursing, secretary, cashier hostess or magistrate. On the other hand, some sectors, such as the digital or computer trades, attract few women; And it's tomorrow's trades. We must act. I will therefore also make proposals to promote mix in the sectors. As far as the position of women in the world of work is concerned, I am in favour of a better representativeness in companies. An effort of transparency is needed. The Copé-Zimmermann Act allowed women to occupy 43.6 per cent of the executive seats in the 120 largest publicly traded companies in 2019, up from just over 26 per cent in 2013. The bill that we are debating today provides that the proportion of women in management and management is at least 30 per cent in companies with more than 1000 employees. I am in favour of this new measure. Finally, we need to introduce mixed objectives in Bpifrance's policy of supporting the creation and development of businesses because, in the area of entrepreneurship, women have the same will as men to start their businesses. I regret, however, that we cannot discuss childcare or parental leave, issues that seem to me to be inextricably linked to the working lives of parents. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Overall, I welcome the spirit of the text, which tends to be more mixed, and I hope that our discussions will further enrich it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u25	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u26	In 1946, our country established equality between women and men as a constitutional principle. Seventy-five years later, we still have to work to make this promise of equality a reality. The data, known to all, have been recalled several times in this forum. Women remain less well paid, their employment rate is lower than that of men, and they are less likely to be in managerial positions. These inequalities, as we know, have been revived in the wake of the crisis. The women were overmobilized. Nurse, caregiver, home helper, care worker, cashier or teacher: these professions, which have been at the forefront of the epidemic, are carried out, by a large majority, by women. Conversely, and symbolically, the key sectors of the recovery plan, such as aeronautics and automobiles, appear to be very little feminized. In short, the path to equality is still long. Yet, since the 1960s, laws have followed each other and progress has also been made, proof that legislative work is useful. But inequality persists, confirming that this work must continue. While the Copé-Zimmermann law has been a real success, at the level of the boards of directors, the runoff of the governance bodies to the management bodies has not really occurred. The glass ceiling continues to block or slow women's progress. The bill we are considering today addresses this unequal division of power within companies. We can only subscribe to this ambition. Let us make it clear: quotas are not a perfect solution, no one can be satisfied with having to introduce them, but it is probably the only one available to us to improve the situation. It is also important to improve our tools for assessing inequalities within companies. The occupational equality index is still poorly defined. Our group will make proposals in this regard. Women must have access to leadership positions, as the skills and merit of women must be recognized in the same way as those of men. I would also like to refer to what some researchers call the "sticky floor," a term that refers to the fact that women are too often confined to less paid but also more precarious positions. The valorisation of the so-called feminized professions, the very ones that have been highlighted by the health crisis and which work for the common good, could be a solution. We must also fight against part-time jobs, which women occupy more than 80 per cent of the world's population. These dimensions are completely absent from this bill, and we regret that. Yet, although modest, this bill is still necessary, and we welcome, Madam rapporteur, your commitment. Our group agrees with all the provisions of this text, although it is concerned that some may face difficulties of implementation if they are not accompanied in parallel by ambitious public policies. We therefore need a more egalitarian family policy so that the reconciliation between family and working life is no longer to the detriment of women. The small step in the area of paternity leave, increased to 28 days, of which only seven are mandatory, is probably not sufficient. I also want to stress a topic that I know a little bit about: access to training and higher education. The feminization of the juries goes in the right direction, but it seems to me essential to act upstream, from the point of view of orientation. Better awareness of stereotypes, from an early age, and better cooperation between secondary and higher education are essential. Stereotyping has a hard life. These representations, tenacious, condition individuals and promote the reproduction of an unequal sharing of wealth and power for many centuries. Yet it is society as a whole that would gain real equality between women and men, including economic equality. [[Applause on some of the banks of the LaREM group. – Ms AnnieChapelierapplauditedalso]] For the World Bank, eliminating any form of discrimination against women at work would make productivity a real leap forward, and if the paid employment rate of women was the same as that of men, the euro area's GDP would also increase considerably. Therefore, let us stop opposing the fight for equality to economic development. Again, this is a stereotype that is contradicted by serious studies and to which the neck should be twisted.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u27	Mrs Bénédicte Taurine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u28	First of all, I want to pay tribute to your commitment, Marie-Pierre Rixain, because I know how much you care about the cause of women. On the other hand, with regard to the whole of this bill, I regret that the measures remain, in my view, too marginal. Everything remains to be done with regard to economic equality between women and men. However, I consider that this text does not go far enough. Unfortunately, it is not the Penicaud index that fills existing gaps. We could have expected this bill to correct at least this tool. Although it was originally designed to eliminate wage inequalities, the objectives are unfortunately not achieved. For example, companies will be able to continue to raise women's wages by 1 euro during their career or upon their return from sick leave, while benefiting from the maximum score for these two indicators. As for the person who evaluates equal pay, he may continue to disregard part-time work. In short, this index misses measures that would allow women to be significantly less vulnerable. But the bill we are debating, which, according to its title, is intended to speed up economic and professional equality, ignores these shortcomings when we could have corrected them and improved the situation of women with a more ambitious text. It does, however, have the merit of existence. In addition, with this law, you increase the number of day care places for beneficiaries of the family support allowance. We consider this provision too limited, as less than a quarter of single parents benefit from it. The need to be available to care for children often leads the lone parent to adjust his or her working time or even to interrupt his or her activity. I recall that 85% of single parents are women and nearly one in two single mothers work part-time. I would also point out that four out of ten single-parent families now live below the poverty line. We should have taken up these issues. For example, we could have waited for a much more ambitious policy to drastically increase the number of day-care places. The arrival of the first child is identified as the moment, in the women's career, when the wage drop-off takes place relative to the men. How can this not be seen as a correlation with the acute shortage of day-care places and the lack of financial support from the State on this point? Emmanuel Macron's program announced the maintenance of a high pace in the creation of places. In 2018, for example, 1800 places were created, representing 6% of the quinquennium target. According to some studies, more than 200,000 nursery places are missing in France. Our country is therefore far from meeting the needs of women in this area. We have been battalions for several months to recall that, ten years after the Copé-Zimmermann law, the law establishing 40% of women in the executive leadership still does not exist. As this provision is not included in the original text, we have tabled several amendments to this effect. I am pleased to note that you have amended your text to reflect these quotas. Without such a tool, the situation of women will not change positively. Since the beginning of the legislature four years ago, this measure appeared to be a sea serpent: announcements were made in a sense by the ministry before being systematically followed by contrary announcements. So we have already lost four years in terms of equality between women and men, and above all of change in representation and role models, necessary for changing attitudes. Unfortunately, you are losing us two more years, since the High Council for Equality between Women and Men, which contributes to the evaluation of public policies by collecting analyses related to these issues, evaluating the impact assessments of laws, sending recommendations and opinions directly to the Prime Minister, recommends that these quotas be put in place in six years, not eight, as is currently proposed. Finally, Madam rapporteur, how can we not mention the amendment to ensure that the financial penalty for non-compliance is only an option? Unfortunately, now no sanctions are foreseen. Throughout this legislature, equality between women and men will have remained, unlike the announcements, the poor parent of all public policies when it was to be the great cause of the quinquennium. We regret it. However, the La France insoumée group will vote for your text, Madam rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u29	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u30	The issue of occupational equality is a major issue because patriarchy continues to cross the whole of society and does not spare work which, strongly structuring social relations, cements inequalities between women and men. The figures are instructive: a woman earns on average 25.7% less than a man and, on contract, diploma, experience and responsibilities, she earns on average 10% less; 82 per cent of part-time employees and two thirds of poor workers are women. Inequalities in the world of work remain glaring. And they have consequences for the whole life, for the whole life, for the whole life, since they affect the rights to unemployment or to retirement. In recent years, no fewer than eight specific laws have been passed. However, our legislation remains weak towards employers because it does not dare to challenge liberalism and its unequal foundation; It does not dare to rub itself too closely with the all-powerful freedom to undertake, which derives from the sacrosanct right to property. For example, women are victims, with a supplement, of the logics of profitability, profitability, precariousness, lower labour costs and wage moderation. And it is not an index of ill-conceived occupational equality or the obligation to open negotiations on occupational equality in companies that can be truly effective, for lack of obligation to achieve results or even to conclude such an agreement. While it is essential to tackle male control over positions of high pay and responsibility, the fight against these injustices cannot be limited to the fact that a few women receive very high wages such as certain men; It calls for an improvement for all women, starting with those whose work is now so poorly recognized, and for a fairer distribution of wealth within the enterprise, i.e. a challenge to the current model. Equality between women and men is a fight that must be fought with greater political will. It is not you, the rapporteur, chairman of the delegation for women's rights, whose commitment I welcome, but if this bill expresses good intentions, it does not really broaden the palette: no new constraints are actually imposed, except in the field of information. It is therefore urgent to act really to take care of the work, to take care of the work. The crisis has revealed, if necessary, that many poorly-recognized trades are carried out by women: they are often trades that meet basic needs, with a strong social dimension, accompaniment or services – health, medico-social, large-scale distribution, cleanliness, home help, and also education – considered as subordinate tasks to which women, in both the private and public spaces, are so often confined. However, on the one hand, they are noble trades and, on the other hand, women cannot be regarded as having special predispositions because they are women. Moreover, these occupations are among the most precarious in terms of working conditions and the least well paid. We live in a society that does not recognize jobs, qualifications, work, and even less for women. Acting for professional equality implies the upgrading of all these professions, and the State must set an example and lead the way. Our group proposes to regulate the use of compulsory part-time work, which remains the first factor in wage inequality and the most common form of underemployment, especially as it increases, some companies having made an ordinary way of managing: part-time work involves 32 per cent of part-time women, almost 10 per cent of women workers. I insist on this because our amendments on this matter have been rejected, as if they were out of the question! If a piece of legislation aimed at promoting professional equality comes to debate and we cannot debate the proposals that would allow it, that means that we are prevented from legislating properly. This inadmissibility is undoubtedly completely regulatory... and yet quite desolating. Similarly, our amendments on the legislative translation of ILO Convention No. 190, which France has signed, have also been rejected. I would point out that the purpose of this Convention is to ensure recognition of the effects of domestic violence by providing for leave for victims, flexible working arrangements, a right to geographical mobility or temporary protection against dismissal. I would like to take this opportunity to ask the Government when this convention will be implemented by our country. Finally, I want to stress the need to put an end to the decline in the resources allocated to the labour inspectorate, because the presence of women and men committed to advancing this cause on the ground, acting on a daily basis to enforce the law, is indispensable. A law without means is likely to be a law without effect. It is therefore not enough to show intentions, but it is necessary for the law to assert ambitions and for budgetary choices to give them life. [[The rapporteur and Mr. GérardLeseulapplaudent]] Having said that, there is no reason for us to oppose this bill, which contains useful provisions, which the Members of the GDR Group will support.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u31	Mr Christophe Castaner has the floor. I know, dear Marie-Pierre Rixain, how much you have done for this text, how much you have defended it and will still do it here on our behalf.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u32	In starting this speech, I think of all the people who look at us, all the people who are waiting for us, I think of all those women who have fought for equality without ever giving up and who have made it possible, often one by one, to win. I am thinking of all those who are committed and still have to fight, all those who rise at the level of society and bring equality to life by their example. Finally, and perhaps most importantly, I am thinking of all these women who are victims of violence, sometimes symbolic or psychic, but also too often physical. To speak of equality is not to forget that the vile murder of Chahinez Daoud by his ex-spouse in Mérignac, just a few days ago, obliges us: we must act without hesitation, without weakening, debate with respect, never give up. Equality between women and men is a struggle of every moment, nothing and no one should turn us away from it. Of course, there has been indescribable progress. Women now have the freedom to dispose of their bodies and, thanks to the fight for parity, they have access to the highest responsibilities and the law – fortunately... – no longer recognizes differences between women and men. But should we stop there? Can we look for a moment at contenting ourselves with the letter of the texts without looking at the reflection of reality, namely that the path is still long, that women are more often victims of discrimination, prejudice and, in an equivalent position, have a salary of 10 per cent lower than that of their male colleagues, that women take on average much more time to take up positions of responsibility or to the board of directors. The reality is that women are too often called upon to choose between work and family life, as if taking care of their children sounded exclusively to the female... But the hardest reality is that I could continue this enumeration at length, talk about entrepreneurship, part-time work and also about the prison in which too many women are forced to stay with a violent husband because he has total control of financial resources. The fight for real equality is still long, but it deserves to be conducted and we will lead it to the end. The President of the Republic has made equality between women and men the main cause of the quinquennium and, for the past four years, we have acted on all fronts by taking essential measures such as extending paternity leave, since it is now mandatory to achieve a better distribution of the time spent on children, the guarantee by the Family Allowance Fund (CAF) of the payment of maintenance payments, whereas almost three to four out of ten were not or very partially paid; In parallel, we intensified the fight against domestic violence, further accelerating after the Grenelle in November 2019, both by strengthening prevention, devoting more resources to the protection of victims and improving their support. We have worked hand in hand with the Government and the State services, but also with the associations so as not to let anything go. Today, thanks to the bill tabled by our group and the other two components of the presidential majority, we are taking another step forward in tackling economic inequalities. The first articles affirm the individual right to hold a current account in order to guarantee each woman independence and autonomy in the management of her income, including social benefits: a spouse will no longer be able to preempt her spouse's income, she will receive them in an account in her name. In order to facilitate access to work, this bill extends the reserved places in nurseries to the most difficult mothers. And then we must act at the root, from the orientation of girls during their schooling. For example, I point out that women account for only 28% of graduate engineers. We will therefore vote for the establishment of an equality index to account for the choices made in the various fields. This text also aims to allow equal access to financing when starting a business, knowing that only 2% of the dedicated funds have been raised by female-headed start-ups. The State must be exemplary, including by making progress in terms of parity in the policy of supporting the creation and development of enterprises led by the Public Investment Bank. Finally, this future law will eventually make it possible to establish a balanced representation of women in the governing bodies of large French companies. Quotas are not a miracle solution, but they are often necessary. We must be ambitious in breaking this glass ceiling, but also take account of the reality of companies, and the rapporteur has found a balance on this point in her definition of the objectives for increasing diversity set for companies. [[Applause on the banks of the LaREM group. – Mr MichelCastellanietM. BrunoMillienneapplaud also]] Ladies and gentlemen, equality has no political colour, no more than it has time to waste. We are here to build and succeed, I have no doubt for a moment that it is the same on all the benches of each group. Let us together offer this great advance to the equality of women and men at work.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u33	Equal speaking time is for you too!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u34	Mrs Albane Gaillot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u35	It was just over a year ago, the covid was making a bursting entrance; First of all health, the crisis quickly had social and economic repercussions. One thing is absolutely certain: the covid crisis did not impact women and men in the same way and, according to some experts, this pandemic could wipe out twenty-five years of progress on equality between women and men. I therefore believe that we would miss out on the subject, namely economic and occupational equality between women and men, if we did not take into account in our debates and in our reflections the impact of the crisis on women's employment. It is not only a question of reducing existing inequalities, but also and above all of anticipating the development of new forms of inequality as a result of this crisis. Twenty-five years of lost progress, I said, which we cannot be satisfied with. Several studies are already taking stock of the inequalities generated by the various confinements: I am thinking in particular of those of the Economic, Social and Environmental Council (EESC) and the Women's Foundation. It seems to me essential to be able to measure these new inequalities right now in order to better understand them. This could be the subject of the Occupational Equality Index, although the exemplary notes obtained by a very large majority of the companies concerned, which appear to be systematically decorated with the reality of the occupational inequalities between women and men, must alert us collectively: if this tool has the merit of existing, it lacks its objective in that it omits important factors of inequality and omits to consider the characteristics and trajectories specific to the employment of women. Occupational segregation, for example, which is shaping the trajectories of women and men in the labour market, is poorly taken into account. The index, by simply comparing the same broad categories of jobs, also does not allow us to draw the great lessons of the crisis which has highlighted the obvious contradiction between the social value and the economic recognition of female-dominated jobs. Finally, in the absence of indicators on the number of women in the executive ranks, the index ignores the very famous glass ceiling that prevents women from reaching the highest positions – I have tabled an amendment to remedy this. While the economic consequences of the health crisis have made visible and accentuate the inequalities between women and men, the answers to this issue are missing. I would like to take an example. The Government chooses to revive the economy through ecology: out of 100 billion euros invested, 30 are spent on ecological measures. So far, nothing to worry about, you'll tell me. We know that investment in major ecological works can create many jobs. The problem is that these various occupations are almost non-mixed: women account for only 16% of employees. In general, they are very few in areas with high greening potential. There is no doubt that the ecological transition offers employment opportunities for women. Only, without a proactive policy of feminization of these jobs, there is a lot to bet that women will not benefit from it. I therefore find it regrettable that we do not take this into account when we legislate on professional equality between women and men. I have tabled an amendment aimed, among other things, at the deployment of a national training plan to promote the employment of women, but I was surprised to see its inadmissibility under Article 45 of the Constitution. How could the training of women in so-called future occupations have no direct bearing on the acceleration of professional equality between women and men? [[The rapporteur and Mrs AnnieChapelierapplaud]] Ladies and gentlemen, the law that we are about to vote on is a salutary first step. Madam rapporteur, I know your commitment and thank you for submitting this subject to national representation. However, I think we could go faster and further. I am thinking in particular of the introduction of quotas in the management bodies of companies. More needs to be done, by broadening the spectrum of companies involved in joint obligations, and faster; I will propose amendments to that effect. I am thinking of gender-based and sexual violence, the workplace of which often constitutes the soil, transforming work into torture, into suffering for the women who are the victims of it. I regret that my amendment was declared inadmissible on the grounds that it would have no direct connection to the text. Putting this bill on the agenda to combat occupational inequalities between women and men is too rare an opportunity, let us seize it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u36	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u37	I now call, in the text of the committee, the articles of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u38	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u39	A year ago, the President of the Republic said: "Our whole country holds on to women and men whom our economies recognize and pay so badly". Among these women, the first of the ropes, the number of which is massive, were the social auxiliaries (AVS), who continued their mission with our elders – often without mask, without gloves, without protection; there were nursery assistants, who continued to accommodate the children of teachers and the children of caregivers; There were maintenance officers, who continued to clean up the National Assembly, stations and all offices, using virucide in addition. These are occupations that are massively female – between 85 and 99% women – and strongly devalued in terms of both recognition and remuneration, often with working hours that extend from morning to evening with holes in contracts. At the end of the month, these female employees did not even receive a SMIC, whereas they were engaged in occupations which, in the words of the President of the Republic and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, were of common utility, which should be the sole basis of social distinctions. The text we are looking at seeks to achieve equality between men and women in an equivalent position. But without revaluing all the jobs that are massively female—maintenance workers, maternal assistants, social workers—we miss a huge part of the inequality between women and men. Why are these jobs devalued? Because they are female, because in the collective unconscious, at the bottom, women have been caring for children, the elderly, the sick for centuries. They have done so so far free of charge and on a voluntary basis; As we pay them now a little bit, they wouldn't have to bother the world? I still regret that for a year, nothing has been done...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u40	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u41	...for those professions for which the President of the Republic had committed himself, and that neither this nor any other Act provides for a re-evaluation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u42	Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel has the floor to support Amendment No. 145.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u43	It is to be specified that the salary may be paid only to a joint account which the beneficiary has the enjoyment of without the counterseing of the co-owner. It is an amendment that we tabled in committee and we really want to stress this point, since there are three kinds of accounts attached, entitled "Mr or Mrs", "Mr and/or Mrs" and "Mr and Mrs". We therefore believe that the clarification provided by the amendment is important.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u44	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u45	The committee rejected this amendment, as it is entering into a degree of detail which could deprive the measure of effectiveness. I would also point out that the attached accounts allow each co-owner to operate the account, deposit and withdraw money or make a cheque with his signature alone, which is why I give an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u46	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u47	This does not seem to us justified, since it seems very difficult for the employer to verify whether the account concerned is a joint account or a simple undivided account. The scheme would not be very effective and, in fact, it would not achieve the desired result. Such a measure could only force people to open personal accounts, which would be an additional cost and would make the management of the personal budget more complex for a very large number of households. The opinion is therefore unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u48	Mrs Cendra Motin has the floor to support Amendment No 41.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u49	I would like to draw your attention to a case in which staff services are quite often confronted, that of young minors who work in companies for very short periods and who do not always have a bank account in their name. The idea was therefore to take their situation into account.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u50	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u51	Even if it starts with a good intention, your amendment may reduce the benefit of the protection provided by Article 1 for people who already earn a salary from their work – I am thinking in particular of minors between the ages of 16 and 18. Although I understand the constraint of opening an account, particularly for a minor, I believe that the practice is sufficiently established to ensure that the protection I propose is equally applicable to them. I therefore ask you to withdraw your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u52	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u53	It does not seem useful to us to create a derogation in this case already covered by certain specific provisions of the Civil Code and the Labour Code, which will continue to apply. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u54	Mrs Bénédicte Taurine has the floor to support Amendment No. 111.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u55	To the extent that the article involves significant changes in the receipt of the salary, we would like the employer to notify the persons concerned in order to ensure the continuity of the payment of the remuneration. A reminder every three months would make it possible to remedy the situation more quickly than required by law.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u56	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u57	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u58	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u59	This amendment places the responsibility for the change of account on companies. It would involve an audit of the accounts communicated by all employees, which would be a very important burden for companies. It thus seems more realistic to agree with companies on information plans adapted to each situation concerning this new obligation. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u60	Mrs Bénédicte Taurine has the floor to support Amendment No. 116.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u61	[[Mr François Ruffin applauds]] This is an editorial amendment to replace the concept of beneficiary with that of beneficiary. The designation of persons as recipients of social benefits suggests that they enjoy an undue social advantage, whereas they receive a socialized benefit which belongs to them, since they have contributed. The history of social security and its construction must not be ignored to enable it to survive.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u62	When we talk about profits, France doesn't like it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u63	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u64	I do not think that the concept of beneficiary is particularly stigmatizing. I would remind you that in the Social Security Code, as in the Code of Social Action and the Code of Families, hundreds of references refer to the beneficiaries, without ever having led to a decrease in the legitimacy of persons with social rights. On the other hand, the concept of an assignee is restricted in common terms, and refers to the family benefits that we do not aim for. The opinion is therefore unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u65	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u66	The term "recipient" is frequently used by regulation. As in current practice, it does not seem to me to imply that people who receive social benefits would benefit from an unfair advantage. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u67	Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel has the floor to support Amendment No. 146.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u68	This is an amendment of consistency with point 145, which was rejected. By parallelism, it concerns the payment of social benefits to a joint account which the beneficiary has the enjoyment of without the counterseing of the co-owner. You responded earlier that this might make the measure more complex. However, it seems to us simple enough for the employer to carry out an audit, since the accuracy appears on the employee's bank identity statement.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u69	Amendment No 117 by Mrs Bénédicte Taurine is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u70	The rapporteur's amendments Nos 188, 189 and 190 are drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u71	I call Mr Le Bohec to support Amendment No. 283.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u72	This amendment, co-signed by some 15 colleagues, aims to facilitate access to vocational training for parents following parental leave. Currently, parental leave is still unevenly distributed among the sexes. It is therefore important that quantified data on equality be publicly available to measure and sustain efforts in the area of vocational training, particularly for women.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u73	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u74	Even if I am sensitive to your request, I would be afraid that the adoption of your amendment would lead to more confusion than anything else. The article provides for a specific provision which obliges Pôle Emploi and the CAF to jointly carry out initiatives to promote the return to employment of inactive or unemployed beneficiaries of PreParE. It does not seem to me that this is the place to provide for equality indicators for these two bodies in their composition or in their action. I propose that you withdraw your amendment, which might confuse two different situations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u75	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u76	The distribution of parental leave and PreParE between women and men is, as you recall, very uneven and one can only regret it. However, it does not, a priori, depend on the training measures implemented to facilitate the reintegration of their beneficiaries into the labour market. In addition, the distribution of PreParE between women and men has been an indicator monitored for several years in the context of the report on the evaluation of social security policies for families, which is annexed to the draft law on the financing of social security. Your amendment therefore seems to me to be partly satisfied by the existence of an indicator on the beneficiaries of PreParE and by the monitoring of the Convention and its results, which is provided for in the last paragraph of Article 3. For these reasons, I propose that you withdraw your amendment; If I don't, I'll be unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u77	Mrs Valérie Six has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u78	Article 3 is the result of the adoption in committee of an amendment introducing a right to telework for mothers within 12 weeks of their maternity leave, provided that the tasks can be carried out outside the premises of the undertaking. I am opposed to the introduction of such a right to telework, for two main reasons. On the one hand, the right to telework does not exist either in positive law or in the national interprofessional agreement, and it is a fundamental condition for telework to be deployed everywhere in a peaceful manner. For our group, its development requires social dialogue. You do not promote telework by imposing it on the employer, especially since nothing in current law prevents such a provision from being included in collective agreements; There is also nothing to prevent an employee from agreeing with her employer to a period of telework during pregnancy. On the other hand, this system competes directly with prenatal pathological leave. Telework is not an underwork, and with this device a pregnant woman should not find herself working telework while, in her absence, she would have had a pathological leave. Not all pregnancies are the same: some are more difficult than others, and I don't think you're going to help young mothers by offering them telework, quite the contrary.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u79	Mrs Albane Gaillot has the floor in support of Amendment No 48.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u80	If pregnancy is a major moment in a woman's life, it is also, unfortunately, for some, a moment dreaded from a professional point of view. According to a study by the Supreme Council for Occupational Equality between Women and Men (CSEP), published in February 2019, 50% of women believe that their motherhood has hampered their careers, while only 18% of men feel this way about their paternity. In order to restore a form of balance, facilitate the professional organisation of pregnant women and improve their career development, this amendment tabled by Paula Forteza goes further than the current wording of Article 3a and proposes the introduction of a genuine right to telework for employees eligible for this form of work organisation. The employer shall not object to the employee exercising this right, up to two days a week, from the second trimester of pregnancy. It will be up to the social partners, within the framework of sectoral or enterprise agreements, to define the tasks eligible for telework.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u81	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u82	The committee has delivered an opinion against the amendment, which is said to be less than the provisions it has adopted. First, under Article 3a, telework is lawful, since it can be implemented at the employee's request. Furthermore, the amendment refers to the vague concept of second trimester pregnancy, whereas Article 3a provides that this right is open to employees four months before the start of their maternity leave, i.e. five and a half months before the presumed date of birth. Finally, you expect that this possibility may apply to two days a week, while Article 3a does not limit this right.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u83	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u84	Many company agreements already take into account the specificities of employees in order to facilitate the use of telework, in particular for medical or family reasons. Collective agreements are often rich in measures related to maternity protection and make telework an important lever, where the position permits. The national interprofessional agreement concluded by the social partners in November 2020 further reinforces this dynamic and the present bill, adopted by the Committee on Social Affairs, is already planning to highlight the possibility for pregnant women to use telework. For all these reasons, I ask you to withdraw your amendment; If not, I will be unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u85	Would you like to withdraw the amendment, Mrs Gaillot?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u86	It was tabled by my colleague Forteza; I'll hold on to him.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u87	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Anthoine to support Amendment No. 54.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u88	With this amendment, Mr Trastourt-Isnart proposes to supplement Mrs Calvez's amendment, which was adopted in the Committee on Social Affairs. Article 3a of the text reinforces Article L. 1225-17 of the Labour Code by allowing the employee to benefit from telework within the 12 weeks preceding her maternity leave. Extending this possibility to the 12 weeks following the leave would give the mother flexibility that could help her find the right balance between work and personal life, and facilitate her return to work. This provision would allow many situations to be taken into account by giving the mother who gave birth the freedom to use telework or not, where her employment permits.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u89	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u90	The committee has delivered an opinion against your amendment. It starts with a good intention – giving women more flexibility at the birth of their child – but seems problematic in two respects. Unlike Article 3a, which is motivated by the risk of pathological pregnancy, our colleague's proposal is not justified by specific attention to the health of mothers. In addition, postpartum telework may increase the risk of postpartum depression. Indeed, as we all know, attention to an infant is a full-time job, which can hardly be reconciled, in the same place, with the demands of working life. We would therefore adopt with this amendment a dangerous measure both for the health of the infant and for the mother, which would be obliged to juggle the care to be given to a very small baby with the occupational constraints, sometimes increased when the activity is resumed after maternity leave. For all these reasons, I express an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u91	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u92	I can only agree with the rapporteur. I would add that it is through collective bargaining that the rules best suited to the situation of employees and their undertakings can be defined. Consequently, the opinion was unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u93	Mr Fabien Di Filippo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u94	Madam Deputy Minister, the rapporteur, I have noted two strong contradictions in your remarks. First of all, Madam Deputy Minister, you have just said that telework is promoted before childbirth in the law; Why return telework after delivery to collective bargaining? Either we always rely on collective bargaining, or we always leave our hands to the State. Secondly, the rapporteur, telework does not mean a mode of custody. The postpartum periods are clearly the most stressful. It's not because you work at home that you're not going to have your child cared for. Telework can reduce travel times and improve organization, all of which will reduce stress. As for the stress associated with telework, it is as strong before as after delivery. It is my experience as a young family father: I became one during this legislature, and I will be again in a few months. I assure you that the periods after delivery are often much more complicated than those before. The good intention you had for the seconds would benefit from being extended to the former.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u95	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u96	On Article 4, I have before me a request for a public vote by the La République en marche group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. The rapporteur's amendment No 192 is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u97	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 191.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u98	It is an amendment of precision that responds to the questions of many of our colleagues, particularly regarding single-parent families and the reference to the Family Support Allowance (FSA). It states that the scheme remains limited to single-parent families, subject to the availability of resources, in accordance with the article of the Social Action Code and the families in which it is to be integrated.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u99	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u100	The FSO is a benefit paid to single-parent families in the event of non-payment of support, either because the child has not been recognized or one of the parents has died, or because the former spouse is unable to pay support or refuses to do so. This benefit therefore does not cover all situations of single parenthood. It is also aimed at all families, regardless of their level of resources. The benefit of the increase in active solidarity income attributed to single parents is therefore a more relevant and more appropriate criterion than that of the ASF to extend the scheme of places reserved for single-parent families, in particular the most modest ones. I am therefore in favour of the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u101	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 6 and 82. I call Mrs Emmanuelle Anthoine to support Amendment No. 6.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u102	It is intended to extend the benefit of the places reserved for childcare to persons wishing to continue their studies, so as to enable them to deepen their professional project. In practice, when you have children, it is as complicated to devote yourself to education as to professional activity; This is why we need to create devices that help parents do so.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u103	I call Mr Bouyx to support Amendment No. 82.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u104	This essential amendment aims to update the support schemes for people who engage in long-term university studies. It is essential to allow them to benefit from reserved guard places.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u105	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u106	Your amendment, which had already been tabled in committee, is satisfied with the new wording of Rule 4. That's why I'm asking you to remove it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u107	Mrs Valérie Six has the floor to support Amendment No. 216.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u108	Article 4 introduces into the law the principle of AVIP nurseries and defines them. These nurseries could accommodate children up to the age of 6. However, the law for a school of trust of 28 July 2019 made school compulsory from 3 years old. It therefore seems paradoxical to provide for the reception of children up to 6 years of age in the AVIP crèche, whereas they are supposed to be in school from 3 years of age. Therefore, the amendment proposes, in the definition of AVIP nurseries, to reduce the child's age of reception to 3 years.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u109	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u110	The amendment is restrictive: it would prevent the emergence, on the model of AVIP nurseries, of other hybrid structures such as AVIP nurseries. We want to develop these models; That is why the committee has given an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u111	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u112	The current legal framework for crèches defines them as "institutions and services for the care of children under the age of six". This formulation makes it possible to take account of kindergartens, which accommodate children between 2 and 6 years of age. The lowering of the age of compulsory schooling from 6 to 3 years will lead, after a transitional phase allowing kindergartens to evolve, to the establishment and services of young children covered by these provisions only receive children before they attend school. I therefore propose that you withdraw your amendment; If I don't, I'll be unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u113	The rapporteur's amendment No 193 is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u114	The Minister-in-Office has the floor to support the Government's amendment No. 144.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u115	The Government shares your will to incorporate the AVIP nursery model into the law, and the measure proposed in this amendment should speed up the development of this virtuous model. However, it is important to ensure that the legal framework is the one that actually exists. While the initial model of AVIP nurseries reserved 30 per cent of places for children whose parents were in employment, the practice quickly showed that this level was too high for the system to function properly.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u116	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u117	This is why, as early as 2017, an amendment between the Ministry of Solidarity and Health, the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Integration, the National Fund for Family Allowances (CNAF) and Pôle Emploi reduced this rate to 20%. This development, decided in consultation with the representatives of the day-care managers, met a real need and made it possible to perpetuate the model of the AVIP day-care centres.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u118	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u119	For this reason, the Government proposes to take account of this development, which has been validated by practice, and to incorporate this amendment into article 4 in a consistent manner.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u120	The rapporteur's amendments Nos 194 and 195 are drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u121	I put Article 4 to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u122	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 83 Number of votes cast 83 Absolute majority 42 For adoption 83 Against 0
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u123	The next speaker is Mr Gaël Le Bohec, in support of Amendment No. 323, which sets out the additional rule after Rule 4a. This amendment is the subject of a drafting sub-amendment by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u124	Several studies show that gender stereotypes are transmitted by parents to their child from intrauterine life. Parents address the unborn child and place their hands differently on the mother's belly depending on whether the child is male or female. Although these are reflexes on the part of parents, it is important to raise awareness of the issue of combating gender stereotypes from pregnancy, as well as during the first months of the child's life. The aim of this amendment is, therefore, to supplement the Code of Social Action and Families, which includes a part on education and family counselling. In this regard, let me mention the work of Sara Brachet, Carole Brugeilles, Anne Paillet, Agnès Pélage, Catherine Rollet and Olivia Samuel, who, as early as 2014, in a collective work entitled Desfemmes et deshommesssinguliers, had described the sexualized process that began before birth and mobilized multiple representations and many expectations towards the unborn child.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u125	The rapporteur has the floor to give the committee's opinion on this amendment and to support sub-amendment 347.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u126	As you know, dear colleague, I have worked for a long time in the perinatal sector and I am very committed to distinguishing two aspects which, in my view, form a feminist maternity: on the one hand, the monitoring of pregnancy, centred on the physiological state of each woman, according to her needs and her rights; of the other, the accompaniment to parenthood, which must be addressed to both parents, and not only to the mother. I would also point out that the Labour Code allows the co-parent of an unborn child to be absent from work to attend three mandatory medical examinations for pregnancy follow-up, which includes ultrasound. I urge all co-parents to go to the ultrasound!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u127	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u128	Mr Le Bohec, the addition you are proposing is consistent with the reform, in 2018, of the main mechanism for accompanying couples, namely the institutions for information, consultation or family counselling, governed by the Public Health Code. Indeed, this reform has reinforced the mission of informing people about their rights to emotional, relational and sexual life, which is now explicitly aimed at promoting equality between girls and boys and between women and men. I therefore support your amendment and the rapporteur's sub-amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u129	Mrs Christine Hennion has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u130	Section 5 is of fundamental importance if we want this bill, which I welcome, to achieve its objective in a sustainable manner and a virtuous circle to be set in motion for a genuine mix in all sectors. I will take a concrete example. The Women@Digital Foundation, which I chair, has found that the proportion of girls in the higher digital fields has stagnated around 15% to 16% over the last decade. How, under these conditions, can women be made to work equally in companies in this sector and to hold positions of responsibility there? All this has to change, and quickly. I welcome the fact that the work in committee has allowed the colleges to be added to Article 5. Indeed, if stereotyping is at an early age, it is at the college that it crystallizes itself. It was therefore important to act also at the college. A true mix in all trades is the key to equal pay and equality in access to responsibilities, but also to greater innovation and better corporate governance.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u131	Mrs Céline Calvez has the floor to support Amendment No. 306.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u132	This amendment aims to promote the fight against gender stereotypes from an early age. Our colleague Christine Hennion pointed out that these stereotypes were based on college, but they appear from an early age. That is why we need to look at national education programmes and consider how to further promote equality between women and men. We therefore propose that, within the 10-member Higher Programme Council, at least one person specializing in equality issues be appointed to ensure that school curricula promote equality between women and men.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u133	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u134	The committee has delivered an unfavorable opinion on this amendment, but I would like to support it personally. In its composition, the Higher Council for Programmes is joint, but it is interesting to go further in a body that obviously needs to pay particular attention to the issue of equality.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u135	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u136	Member of the European Parliament, the school plays an essential role in conveying the sense of equality between girls and boys and in cultivating the same ambition in all pupils in their school career. That is why I am in favour of your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u137	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u138	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 196 and 324. The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 196.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u139	This amendment, on which the committee has delivered a favourable opinion, aims to enable young women to have the skills they need in the labour market tomorrow, which is undergoing rapid change. According to the Directorate of Research, Studies and Statistics, DARES, the emerging sectors, which often use digital and technological tools, currently include only 15% women. However, 191000 posts could be filled in these areas in the coming years. We cannot leave young women out of this evolution! The aim of this amendment is to encourage the presence of women in the digital sectors themselves. We can no longer accept the difference observed at the 2019 school year in the choice of the specialty "Digital and computer science" in the second class: this specialty attracted 2.6% of girls as opposed to 15.2% of boys. The consequences of this gap are striking at present, since women account for only 30% of the employees in the digital sector and most of them work in support jobs.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u140	Mrs Carole Grandjean has the floor to support Amendment No. 324.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u141	The "La République en marche" group defends education in digital and technological tools for all students, but especially for girls. Indeed, as the rapporteur has just pointed out, there are stark inequalities in the orientation towards digital channels. The mastery of digital tools is a more general issue from the point of view of access to tomorrow's jobs, especially for women. Tomorrow, two out of five jobs will concern digital channels and the ecological transition. Developments in the labour market are therefore of paramount importance. It is imperative that we train girls in these new jobs.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u142	What is the Government's opinion on these identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u143	As you said, over the next five years, one in three jobs will have a digital component. Young girls and women cannot miss out on these professional opportunities. I therefore share your desire to pay particular attention to the training of girls in this field and to their orientation towards the information technology sector and new technologies. The inclusion of this concern in the Education Code will increase the attention of the educational community to the need to expand the opportunities for training in digital tools and then to focus on the digital and computer professions. My opinion is therefore very much in favour of these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u144	The rapporteur's amendment No 197 tends to correct a reference error.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u145	Mrs Laurence Gayte has the floor to support Amendment No. 260.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u146	Equality between women and men is, for any organization, a demonstrated and powerful lever of modernization, efficiency and quality of governance. It should be equally, if not more, in the public service in general. Everyone must realize that equality between women and men is an essential lever for the quality of decision-making and the management of public policies. This amendment proposes to build on a practice in the hospital public service, which has established a selection committee for all executive positions. This committee is a joint committee from the point of view of the representative organisations and examines candidates for positions in management on the basis of pre-posted criteria of competence and with the objective of pre-selection in near parity of women and men. We propose to decline, while adapting, this good practice in the other two public functions, with the dual objective of professional objectivation and examination of applications with a view to achieving parity.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u147	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u148	I will take a few minutes to respond to this first amendment on the public service in order to explain my position on almost all of the amendments on this subject. As I indicated in my opening remarks, the purpose of the bill is not to make the public service catch up with business, but the other way around. We will come back to that, but I want to insist on it: our goal is for companies to catch up with measures already implemented by the state in the civil service. Indeed, we have already strengthened the obligations of the civil service in terms of balanced representation of women and men, protection against gender-based and sexual violence and acts, and reconciliation between personal and professional life, all of which are reflected in the law of 6 August 2019 on the transformation of the civil service. It is therefore not appropriate, less than a year after the entry into force of these rules, which are among the most demanding for the civil service throughout the European Union, to amend them again. It seems to me better to wait for an initial assessment. That is why I am expressing an unfavorable opinion on this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u149	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u150	I fully agree with the rapporteur, and we will come back to the matter later on by examining several other amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u151	The rapporteur's amendment No 198 is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u152	Mrs Annie Chapelier has the floor to support Amendment No. 285.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u153	It had already been presented in committee, but we slightly modified it by focusing on "prevention" of gender stereotypes rather than on "awareness", already integrated into each student's curriculum. Article 5 already provides that the guidance and training offered to pupils shall promote a balanced representation of women and men in the training courses. It is time to affirm in the Education Code the need for prevention of gender stereotypes at all stages of school life; That is what this amendment is about. I would point out that the vote on Article 5a should make it possible to integrate this aspect into the training of guidance counsellors; We ask that it also be applied to students, so that guidance counsellors are not the only ones who are aware of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u154	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u155	As I have had the opportunity to tell you in committee, your amendment seems to me to be satisfactory. This is an obligation that all schools, including foreign schools, must fulfil. I therefore propose that you withdraw it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u156	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u157	Article L. 123-6 of the Education Code already states that the public service of higher education "takes action against gender stereotypes, both in the teachings and in the various aspects of the life of the educational community". As the provision introduced by your amendment is therefore not necessary, I ask you to withdraw it; If I don't, I'll give you an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u158	I call Mrs Sonia Krimi to support Amendment No. 320, which is the subject of two sub-amendments, Nos. 348 and 349.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u159	This amendment has already been tabled in committee, but I have reworked it taking into account your comments. It is not a question of obliging anyone, but simply asking the preparatory classes of the major schools to disseminate their statistics, in order to guarantee parity within them. It is an amendment of common sense and I hope that it will be adopted.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u160	The rapporteur has the floor to support sub-amendments Nos. 348 and 349, which can be presented in a consolidated format, and to give the committee's opinion on the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u161	Both sub-amendments are editorial. The committee gave an opinion in favour of the amendment. I believe that the annual publication of the aggregated data of these institutions meets the objective of greater transparency that we are pursuing, especially since they already have a number of statistics on the success of their students and their opportunities.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u162	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u163	The promotion of equality between girls and boys is already receiving special attention at all levels of formal education. Gender statistics are already included in all the annual data produced by the ministries responsible for national education and higher education. They are available for training, guidance, school performance, examinations and vocational integration. Work on the image of trainings such as preparatory classes for large schools is necessary to enable young girls to pursue these ambitious paths; It is already one of the objectives of the actions carried out within the framework of the lines of success. For these reasons, I give a wise opinion to your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u164	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 312, which is the subject of sub-amendment No. 342.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u165	This amendment, which the committee expressed its support for, is particularly important. He completed the construction of Article 5, which had already been largely initiated by the amendments adopted in committee, in order to establish a general obligation to ensure a balanced representation of women and men in juries for access to higher education courses. The inclusion of this obligation in the education code makes it possible to make it the standard for access to all undergraduate and postgraduate courses; These include all the post-bac training courses, the mention of which had been added in committee. This explains the deletion of the reference to paragraphs 12 and 13, which was now satisfied with the overall wording thus proposed. Is the policy to enforce a minimum proportion of 30% of people of each sex necessary? Unfortunately, as we know, the answer is still yes, since only 28% of students in major engineering schools are women; This rate also falls to 15% in fields such as mathematics. It is therefore obviously necessary, and it is also necessary, on the contrary, in sectors such as veterinary training, where there are only 15% men. This policy is certainly not the only right response, and we have also adopted measures to strengthen the awareness-raising activities that must be carried out in national education. These will help to reduce the constraints and gender biases, which explain some of the later wage differentials. However, we know that the existence of female role models in the training and admission boards clearly contributes to reducing the gender gap – the hearings we conducted prove this, as well as the report produced by our colleagues Stéphane Viry and Céline Calvez. For all these reasons, I believe it is necessary for us to adopt this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u166	I call Mr Michel Castellani to support sub-amendment No. 342.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u167	It is intended to supplement the rapporteur's amendment, which rewrites the provisions of Article 5 on the mix of selection boards. Indeed, parity in admission boards alone will not be enough to end the potential existence of selection biases, particularly gender biases, because we know that gender stereotypes are very deep-rooted. It might therefore be interesting to raise awareness among juries of the existence of gender biases. For example, a document could be provided to them prior to admissions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u168	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u169	The Education Code already gives the INSPE – the higher national institutes of faculty and education – who train teachers, the mission of transmitting tools and methods to combat gender stereotypes. I therefore consider that your sub-amendment is satisfied and I propose that you withdraw it; If I don't, I'll give you an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u170	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u171	I am in favour of the rapporteur's amendment. As for your sub-amendment, Mr Castellani, I would simply point out that raising the jury's awareness of the selection process is just one of many levers to reduce inequalities. It would be surprising to mention only one without taking into account other types of discrimination such as disability, origin or age. Juries must be made aware of equal treatment in the selection process, but it does not seem appropriate to draw up such a list of discriminations to be prohibited by law. Finally, reference to a decree seems superfluous. Request for withdrawal; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u172	Mr Castellani, do you maintain your sub-amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u173	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u174	If the rapporteur's amendment were adopted, it would bring down Amendments Nos 108 to 71, relating to paragraph 9, as well as Amendments Nos 157 and 158, relating to paragraph 13. Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u175	I realize that we have tabled amendments to these paragraphs. Once deleted, we will not be able to defend them, and I wanted to say a word about them. In particular, it concerns parity in the selection or competition boards of higher education institutions, which is one of the requests we made in committee and which were rejected. We also requested an increase of 30 to 40 per cent in the minimum share of persons of each sex on these selection boards or competitions. The same applies to the indicators on equal opportunities for women and men in higher education, which we hope will not be just global indicators: their evolution must be clear throughout the course of training. What we want is for this bill to make it possible to achieve real parity within the selective channels of higher education.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u176	Mr. Stéphane Viry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u177	I too would like to say a word about the amendments that have to be dropped. They are in line with the work carried out with Céline Calvez a few months ago: they had demonstrated a structural weakness of French higher education towards girls in terms of science education and occupational integration in all scientific professions. There are clearly upstream phenomena of cultural blockage that need to be lifted. I believe that Article 5 and the amendments already adopted in committee to amend it, as well as those proposed today, are in the right direction. That is the point I wanted to make at this stage of our discussions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u178	I call Mr Michel Castellani to support Amendment No. 70.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u179	The new wording of Article 5 provides that the report drawn up by the Observatory for Vocational Integration, established at each university, specifies the distribution of students by sex for each of the data it presents. That's obviously a good thing. This amendment is modest: it aims to clarify that "these data are published in a readable, visible and easily accessible manner" so that they are not only accessible to the members of the Academic Council's Committee on Training and University Life.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u180	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u181	Request for withdrawal.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u182	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u183	Request for withdrawal, too.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u184	Has the amendment been withdrawn, Mr Castellani?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u185	No, Mr. President, I'm keeping it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u186	I call Mrs Brigitte Liso to support Amendment No. 325.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u187	It aims to make public the figures of the gender distribution at the time of publication of the occupational integration rates of young graduates, one year and then two years after graduation. This provision will provide a clear picture of equality between women and men in the field of occupational integration. Beyond their size of instant photographs, the decision-maker will now be able, thanks to these statistics produced year after year, to have all the information necessary to take concrete action on equality. That is how we will observe the tangible results of these actions. I therefore hope that this amendment will receive your full support.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u188	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u189	The committee gave an opinion in favour of your amendment; It complements an existing provision and will allow for the integration of gender-specific data on the online publication of student employment rates. We know that this system is very valuable in measuring the wage gap at the end of the same establishment between young women and young men.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u190	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u191	The Occupational Inclusion Observatory is established at each university. It presents an annual report covering, inter alia, the vocational integration of students. And, according to paragraph 7 of this article, "[c]he report specifies the distribution of students by sex for each of the data it presents", including the rate of insertion. The amendment seems to me to be satisfactory; Nevertheless, I express a wisdom opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u192	Mrs Laurence Gayte has the floor to support Amendment No. 299.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u193	It aims to enhance the role of competition jurors in the careers of public officials, especially women.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u194	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u195	Request for withdrawal.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u196	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u197	If the Government is not fundamentally unfavourable to the objective pursued here, the establishment of such a development falls within the regulatory area or even the management of the human resources of public employers, which may provide for this activity to be taken into account in the annual evaluation of public officials. It is already practised by some employers. Request for withdrawal; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u198	I call Mr Michel Castellani to support Amendment No. 72.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u199	It aims to ensure that the publication of indicators on equal opportunities by higher education institutions is done in a readable and visible manner, joining Amendment No 70. This publication must be easily accessible on the institution's website.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u200	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u201	Request for withdrawal.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u202	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u203	The amendment is intended to ensure that the indicators to be defined by the decree are "readable" and "visible", but these two concepts seem too imprecise and do not seem to fall within the scope of the law. That is why I express an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u204	Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel has the floor to support Amendment No. 156.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u205	I defended it in part earlier, thinking that it would fall with the adoption of Amendment No 325; I would like to complete the presentation. It aims to clarify that indicators relating to equal opportunities between women and men must take account, to be global indicators, of the evolution of this equality throughout the course of training. It seems useful to compare the evolution of the ratio of women to men between entry into the course and graduation from the training in question.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u206	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u207	As I have already had the opportunity to say, the indicators that will make up the barometer will include indicators for the entire training. More specifically, the decree resulting from this article will have to take into account the following indicators: the gender distribution in the choice of options chosen, in order to identify possible biases related to gender stereotypes, and the comparison between the gender distribution of entrants and that of exiters, in particular with a view to analysing the difference between the choices expressed on the courseup and those finally made by the students. The amendment seems to me to be satisfactory; I therefore ask you to withdraw it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u208	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u209	The precision you are asking seems to me to be more a matter of the decree. I therefore ask you to withdraw the amendment; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u210	Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u211	If you commit yourself to taking into account the elements just listed, Madam Minister, I would like to withdraw it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u212	Mrs Perrine Goulet has the floor to support Amendment No. 104.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u213	In the current drafting of the code of education, the professionalizing virtue of higher education, in particular that of masters, is too little visible and too imprecise; This amendment also suggests that the situation be clarified by publishing the rate of vocational integration of former students in a visible way and by detailing the results by sex and by CSP – socio-professional category. More specifically, it is necessary that the overall integration rate of former students in training and the detailed gender integration rate can be accessed by everyone quickly and directly on the training page of the relevant higher education institution – a university master's degree, for example. The publication of the vocational integration rate by CSP responds to the need to measure the potential for the downgrading effect of training, a phenomenon which affects a quarter of the graduates of the higher education system in our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u214	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u215	I do not believe that it is necessary to force the way in which the data is published, which will be assured no matter what. I therefore ask you to withdraw this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u216	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u217	The aim of the amendment seems to me to be quite commendable, but it would be more appropriate to use a decree to determine how the indicators are to be published. I would like to continue this discussion. Nevertheless, I do not think that bringing it within the framework of the law is a good thing. For this reason, I ask for the amendment to be withdrawn; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u218	I have before me three amendments, Nos 201, 33 and 56, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 33 and 56 are identical. Mrs Annie Chapelier has the floor to support Amendment No. 201.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u219	It aims to double the effort to publish indicators relating to equal opportunities with a duty of transparency on actions implemented in the event of unsatisfactory results, in order to ensure the progress of the establishment. This request for transparency on the post-sales of indicators, so to speak, is based on the experience gained in implementing the Index of Occupational Equality between Women and Men and responds, in mirror, to Article 6 of the proposed law.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u220	I call Mr Dharréville to support Amendment No. 33.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u221	Indeed, it is a matter of matching the effort to publish indicators with an obligation of transparency on the actions implemented in case of unsatisfactory results, otherwise we do not go to the end of the process. That would be a shame. When indicators are not appropriate, a response is required, and this response must be known. We therefore propose to include it in the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u222	Amendment No 56 by Mrs Laurence Trastour-Isnart is being defended. What is the committee's opinion on these amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u223	As I have already said in committee, the obligation to publish corrective measures does not seem practical at this stage. In view of the broad scope of the higher education institutions selected, I would tend to favour the existence of indicators that correspond to the spirit of the scheme, namely a barometer rather than an index. It is a photograph at a moment t, not an index, like the index of professional equality that we created. The barometer is not intended to replace existing devices that satisfy your request. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u224	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u225	Mrs Chapelier, your proposal seems to me again to fall within the scope of the decree provided for in the text, which will aim precisely at defining, in consultation with the institutions, the methods and methodology used for these indicators, as well as the actions to be implemented. For this reason, I ask you to withdraw your amendment; Failing that, adverse notice. With regard to Amendments Nos 33 and 56, we will of course be very attentive to the progress of the institutions, the index being designed to accompany a positive and transparent dynamic. However, it will be up to the decree, in consultation with the institutions concerned, to determine what action will be taken to reduce these inequalities. This is therefore not part of the law. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u226	I call Mr Michel Castellani to support Amendment No. 73.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u227	It aims to create an annual monitoring tool for equality policy implemented by higher education institutions. It is based on the system created by the Copé-Zimmermann law, which provides for annual deliberation by the boards of directors within companies. It transposes this provision to the boards of directors of higher education institutions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u228	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u229	The committee gave an opinion in favour of the amendment. It will allow constructive use of the indicators we create with this article.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u230	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u231	The amendment is fully in line with the Copé-Zimmermann law and with the guidelines of the Research Programming Law of 24 December 2020. The opinion is therefore favourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u232	I have two identical amendments before me, Nos 159 and 202. Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel has the floor to support Amendment No. 159.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u233	I was about to defend Amendments Nos 157 and 158, but they are a priori satisfied; Good. The aim of Amendment No 159, as I have in the general discussion, is to speed up the entry into force of the provisions of Article 5 by setting the time limit at one year after the publication of this Law, as opposed to two years in the current text. That seems sufficient to us, especially since the text will not be promulgated immediately. We want to move faster.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u234	Mrs Annie Chapelier has the floor to support Amendment No. 202.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u235	We are asking for a shorter period of two to one year. The faster you act, the better; On the other hand, this period is quite fake, since the selections are already under way, so that the provisions of the article will not be effective until after three years after the publication of the decree. Mathematically, by reducing the deadline to one year, the measure will only come into force in two years, and everyone will be happy.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u236	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u237	As you know, I very much prefer a measure which has become the rule for higher education as a whole and which would give schools time to adapt to a partial measure which would be rushed to apply, which is why these amendments have received an unfavorable opinion from the committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u238	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u239	This article represents a real step forward in promoting equality between women and men in the training courses offered by higher education institutions. It will result in a strong mobilisation of these institutions, whether for the creation of the equality index or for the establishment of the mix in the juries. This will require time to implement. In addition, the index will have to be the subject of intensive consultations with the conferences of the institutions concerned. I do not think it would be advisable to rush the implementation of this proposal, as this could disrupt the essential period of prior consultations. For these reasons, I express an opinion which is unfavourable to your amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u240	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u241	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u242	I have before me a number of amendments to the additional article after Article 5. Amendment No 175 by Mrs Sira Sylla is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u243	Request for withdrawal.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u244	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u245	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u246	Mrs Céline Calvez has the floor to support Amendment No. 303.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u247	As we have seen in the preparatory work, women are still not sufficiently present in entrepreneurship. A few figures, concerning start-up: only 4% are founded by women and 17% – painfully achieved – by mixed teams. Multiple barriers appear to be opposed to women, discouraging them from doing so. In other countries, miraculously – even if it should be found normal – women are more entrepreneurial. The problem therefore seems to come from the conceptions rooted in our society. In any case, the spirit of entrepreneurship in education should be further encouraged, as it is a good thing. Why only learn or learn to learn? We also need to learn how to do business. Together, we could allow young girls, boys, girls and boys to project themselves, both professionally and personally, in the spirit of doing business. This amendment is therefore intended to include entrepreneurship in the missions of schools, colleges and high schools.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u248	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u249	I call for the amendment to be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u250	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u251	We share your concern, Mrs.Provendier: it is important to spread the culture of entrepreneurship from an early age. However, article L. 121-1 of the Education Code already responds, since it specifies that schools, colleges, lycées and higher education institutions "provide adequate training in its contents and methods to the economic, social and cultural developments of the country and its European and international environment". I do not think that there is a need for further clarification in this bill. I therefore express an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u252	Mr Gaël Le Bohec has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u253	I would like to make two comments on this excellent amendment by my colleague Céline Calvez: on the one hand, young girls should be invited to acquire this spirit of entrepreneurship; On the other hand, the pedagogy deployed in this field effectively helps to combat stereotypes. Associations that campaign in this direction and create mini-enterprises in schools from college onwards – this is the case of Entrepreneurship for learning – see the difficulty, namely the assignment of girls to certain positions: most often, it is a boy who is general manager, while girls are assigned to quality or human resources. Hence the importance of such work in favour of entrepreneurship, from college onwards. It is necessary that we exchange and know each other's arguments in order to move forward in the fight against stereotypes – which is dear to us – especially during the period of education.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u254	Do you maintain the amendment, Mrs Calvez?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u255	It is a pity that the term "entrepreneurship" is not included in the Education Code. Would it be incompatible with the philosophy discussed at school? Article L. 121-1 does indeed mention "training adapted to developments", but I would like to see these developments taken with arms and bodies and to be included in the law that the spirit of undertaking must be part of the education provided.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u256	That's another question!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u257	I withdraw the amendment...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u258	That's too bad.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u259	...because, apparently, we are not ready to go further in this matter, which I find very unfortunate. My colleague Gaël Le Bohec reported on the activities carried out in colleges and high schools, including the creation of mini-enterprises. I hope we have all been able to see the benefits, both for young girls and for young boys. I would like to see a commitment to further develop them, if not through the law, at least on the ground.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u260	She's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u261	I call Mr Le Bohec to support Amendment No. 240.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u262	Article L. 312-17-1 of the Education Code states: "Information on gender equality, combating gender bias and combating violence against women and domestic violence is provided at all stages of schooling. » It is indeed at the childhood stage that mental construction is forged around the concept of gender equality. Beyond teaching, it is important that schools provide a model for equality between men and women from kindergarten to higher education. Referring to the social reports published by the Ministry of National Education, it must be noted, year after year, that the proportion of men is higher in the highest grades, either for senior promotions or for senior positions. The distribution of assignments among institutional categories is equally revealing: the higher the category of the institution, the greater the proportion of men. In other words, when you move from kindergarten to high school, the faculty is highly masculinized. Thus, through the model it represents, the institution contributes to the consolidation of gender stereotypes. This concerns the entire process, including recruitment and tenure. Therefore, the training of pupils on gender equality requires a more visible change in the way in which national education operates. It is therefore important for the Government to publish, in the report provided for in article L. 211-1 of the Education Code, data on equality between women and men in national education. These data must reveal objective information and account for the perception of users of the public service of national education. I accept the mantra, as stated by the rapporteur in her opening remarks: "Women must be counted for women to count. " It is also important to do so in national education. I would point out that this amendment was co-signed by some 15 colleagues.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u263	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u264	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u265	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u266	The Ministry of National Education has been very proactive for several years in the field of student education, but also in the field of human resources since 2018. This work has led to the systematic publication of generic indicators. In addition, we have launched an action plan for equality between women and men in the field, on the one hand, of appointments – this concerns 50 per cent of the senior management of the Ministry, thus appointing women to the positions of director of central administration or rector – and, on the other hand, of promotions and recruitment – this involves, among other things, encouraging women to apply for leadership positions. For all these reasons, I would ask you to withdraw your amendment. Otherwise, I'll give you an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u267	Mrs Valérie Six has the floor to support Amendments Nos 212 and 211, which can be put together.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u268	I regret that Mrs Calvez has withdrawn Amendment No 303, because I would have voted with both hands! Amendment No 211 is intended to promote diversity in technological and vocational education institutions. Indeed, in many of these fields, there is an overrepresentation of either young women or young men. A greater mix is desirable in occupations where either sex is overrepresented. Article 5 of the proposed law seeks to promote diversity in higher education. By Amendment No 211, we propose to extend this work to technological and vocational education institutions. In committee, the rapporteur, you told me that the publication of indicators on equal opportunities for women and men and the actions implemented to reduce inequalities would be too burdensome for these institutions. That is why we have included in the amendment a two-year deadline for the implementation of these indicators. Amendment No 212 goes in the same direction as No 211 but concerns alternance training. A greater mix in certain occupations necessarily involves work that promotes a mix in education. Amendment No 212 also provides for a period of two years for the publication of indicators. The effort must be collective; universities must not be the only ones involved. The forms of alternance training also suffer from a lack of mix. These indicators are similar to those which companies are now asked to publish. The more we act upstream, the faster we get results. In addition, this would allow those responsible for the establishment to set progress targets.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u269	What is the committee's opinion on these two amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u270	The committee had indeed delivered an unfavourable opinion on these amendments, considering that they would place too much burden on the institutions concerned, in particular those which provide alternance training. I consider that this would always be the case, despite the additional time that you propose to grant them. I therefore invite you to withdraw the amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u271	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u272	As I said earlier, the promotion of equality between girls and boys is given special attention at all levels of training. The annual data produced by the ministries responsible for national education and higher education, respectively, already include compiled statistics. In my view, the amendments are satisfactory. I therefore express an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u273	Mrs Florence Provendier has the floor to support Amendment No. 186.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u274	It aims to strengthen equality between women and men in sport. It is the result of the winning law of the Children's Parliament of 2020 and was included in a bill tabled by Pierre Dharréville,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u275	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u276	... which I have co-signed, as have many colleagues sitting on all benches. It lays down the principle of equal remuneration for sportsmen and women. How? By entrusting the delegated federations with the task of issuing regulations to ensure compliance by associations and sports companies under their authority. In the last Forbes ranking of the top 100 athletes in the world, there are only two women, tennis players Serena Williams and Naomi Osaka. In France, no women are among the top 50 athletes. In the face of this unrelenting finding, many well-thinking people say that remuneration is often dictated by the crowd of the public or the interest of advertisers. Therefore, these pay differentials would be in the order of things; They could not be called into question without threatening already fragile financial balances. However, equal pay issues cannot be limited to issues of sports rights or marketing. There is no justification for these economic inequalities, let alone a supposed non-interest in women's sport. In the case of football, a Ligue 1 game broadcast on Canal + or beIN Sports attracts an average of 1 million viewers, while the Women's World Cup or some of the French championship matches bring together more than 2 million. Former professional player Mélissa Plaza asserts with strength: "It is a problem of structures and organization of federations. I would even say that this could be the expression of a form of misogyny. »
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u277	We should conclude, my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u278	There's so much to say, Mr. President, but I'm going to do it. The world of tennis has understood this well, since it has introduced a quasi-fairness of winning bonuses in the Grand Slam tournaments. [["Ah! on various benches]] Ladies and gentlemen, I shall go straight to the point:...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u279	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u280	[[Mr PierreDharréville and Mrs BénédicteTaurineapplaud]] ... children alert the public to this injustice, how great it is; I therefore hope that we Members will have the courage to include in the law equal pay for women and men in the world of sport.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u281	[[Smile]] I let the time run out a little, because I felt that Mr. Dharréville was pleased with your comments... What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u282	In substance, Mrs Provendier, I obviously share your concerns about the economic and income inequalities in the sport community. Moreover, we should no longer talk about "female football", but only about "football". Football is practiced by men or women, and it is important to recall that there is no second-class football. In addition, I welcome the initiative of the Children's Parliament, as well as the bill tabled by our colleague Pierre Dharréville, who brings the voices of these children. However, the committee gives an unfavorable opinion on this amendment, because the issue is not so much the inclusion of the principle of equal pay in the law as its proper application. Indeed, the principle of equal pay for the same work is recognized in the Labour Code, which provides in particular that, in order to be extended, a branch agreement must include a clause to eliminate pay differentials. The principle is also recognized in the case-law of the Court of Cassation, which held, inter alia, in a 1996 judgment that the principle of equal pay for men and women was the application of the more general rule "for equal work, equal pay" and that, therefore, the employer was obliged to ensure equal pay for all employees, irrespective of their sex, provided that they were placed in an identical situation. I will not dwell further on the legal aspect and will listen with interest to the Government's position on the substantive issue of wage inequality in the world of sport. I invite you to withdraw your amendment. However, you should know that this is a subject to which we are sensitive.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u283	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u284	The bill to democratize sport in France, adopted in March in the Assembly, contains very important advances regarding parity in the governing bodies of sport. In the area of remuneration, the sports sector is already subject to the provisions of the Labour Code. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u285	Mrs Florence Provendier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u286	I thank you for your answers, in particular for mentioning the bill to democratize sport, which I had not had time to mention. The text we voted for aims to improve parity in governance bodies; the one we are looking at concerns wages. It also has an economic dimension. It is important to avoid confusion: remuneration in the field of sport is not limited to salaries, emoluments include, in particular, fees. So the devices you cited don't necessarily apply. I hope that the bill to democratize sport will be considered in the Senate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u287	We all hope so!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u288	For the time being, nothing has been done to that effect, and this text is not in force. I hope that parity in governance bodies will also bring about equal pay within federations. However, as I said, this is not only about pay, but also about economic equality. I therefore maintain the amendment. I understand that it is complicated, but if we do not have the courage, at some point, to include a measure of this nature in the law, it will be difficult to move forward.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u289	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u290	I thank Mrs Provendier for defending this amendment. It is indeed inspired by the bill to strengthen equality between women and men in sport in France, drawn up by students of the Canto Perdrix 2 school in Martigues, within the framework of the Children's Parliament. Last year's winner, the proposal included four articles. The amendment takes up the first of them, the one that the children had put in the lead when drafting the text because they had been particularly shocked by the wage inequalities in the field of sport. It goes without saying that the problem in their eyes far exceeded this sector, but it is very emblematic that wage inequalities are so high. The debate was not held as it should have been during the examination of the bill to democratise sport in France. I had tabled amendments that reflected the four articles of the winning bill of the Children's Parliament; They were swept away very quickly and the debate did not take place. We must have it. The measure is simple: "Delegative federations shall establish regulations to ensure respect for equal pay between women and men [...]. The federations must take concrete steps to move forward. Inequalities are staggering and we feel like we can't do anything. Yet we must act, it is even urgent. Perhaps the editorial staff deserves to be fine-tuned – I take responsibility for it, since I have worked on the subject with a few colleagues. It is absolutely necessary to have this debate, we cannot evacuate it like that.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u291	Mr Fabien Di Filippo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u292	It is true that equal income – bonuses and wages – in sport is a very complex problem. Sports that have managed to advance in this area have done so at an international level, rather in joint competitions. An example of this is the Grand Slam tennis tournaments, where we find what we call prize money roughly equal because the events are concurrent. To impose strict wage equality in France amounts to a huge threat to the French sports model. For most sports, such decisions require concerted action within an international, at least European, framework. Indeed, the sport sector has the unique feature of being the most globalised and internationally competitive economy. You cannot renationalize an economy of this nature, barely multiplying the relocations of the actors. This is obviously a problem, as sports are increasingly competitive – athletes have to make more and more sacrifices to be at the level. To take the example of rugby, it is a problem that some players are semi-professional, even amateur, while they make the same sacrifices and follow the same training as completely professional male athletes. However, if you approach the problem at a national level, the solutions will have no chance of succeeding, or it will be counterproductive.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u293	Mrs Perrine Goulet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u294	The objective of equal pay for men and women in the field of sport could be shared; These amendments had been introduced in the bill to democratize sport. The discussion had been referred to that text. It would be interesting if it were an opportunity for a sign, a commitment, a progress. It can be said that it is not possible to achieve perfect equality right now, as Mr Di Filippo said, since it is an economic sector. Nevertheless, an effort must be made to increase women's wages. Madam Deputy Minister, we hear that you do not agree with this amendment, but what can we do to try to reduce the disparities between players and players?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u295	Ladies and gentlemen, we have heard four speeches on this amendment. It is very interesting, but we must move forward in the discussion of the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u296	I call Mr Le Bohec to support Amendment No. 241.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u297	If I may, I will also defend the following amendment in order to speed up the debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u298	Please: you can also support Amendment No 326.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u299	[[Smile]] Both relate to the public service. Of course, if the opinions are favourable, it can go even faster. The aim of Amendment No 241, signed by some 15 of my colleagues, is to create an index. This system works very well for private companies, why not deploy it in the civil service, whether state, territorial or hospital? Amendment No 326 was signed by all members of the Republic on the move. The Law of 13 July 1983 on the Rights and Obligations of Civil Servants provides that the Government shall submit annually to the Joint Civil Service Council, composed of representatives of civil servants' trade unions, territorial employers and hospital employers, "a report on the measures implemented to ensure professional equality between women and men". This report contains a great deal of data related to the issue of equality, "including data relating to recruitment, the feminization of juries, training, working time, professional promotion,... and the link between work and personal life". The Joint Council is a place for consultation and strategic consultation for the entire civil service; It is important that it be able to capture this data every year as quickly as possible. This amendment is therefore intended to clarify that this report should be published no later than six months after the last day of the financial year under which it is drawn up.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u300	What is the committee's opinion on the two amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u301	The committee has delivered an unfavourable opinion on the whole of Amendment No 241. On the other hand, the measure you are defending in Amendment No 326 would respond to certain requests for further information from our colleagues, in particular on matters relating to equality between women and men in the civil service. This is a reasonable proposal; favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u302	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u303	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u304	Mrs Marie Tamarelle-Verhaeghe has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u305	I would like to take advantage of the second amendment to draw your attention to the precarious nature of employment in the public service, where fixed-term contracts can be renewed. In particular, the problem of pregnant women arises. A young woman recently asked me about this: she is doing her third three-month CDD; pregnant, she knows that her CSD will not be renewed; the person who replaces her during her maternity leave will become a priority on the post. This is a factor in the precarization of pregnant women, and it is essential to pay particular attention to this, especially as it happens in the civil service. Twice, in a hospital, I was questioned about the subject and the woman whose example I cited works in the territorial public service. Madam Deputy Minister, could you pay attention to this? This is a real discrimination.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u306	I have before me seven amendments, Nos 265, 1, 8, 57, 83, 96 and 162, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 1, 8, 57, 83, 96 and 162 are identical. Mrs Laurence Gayte's amendment No 265 is being defended. Mr Alain Ramadier has the floor to support Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u307	It was tabled by our colleague Gérard Cherpion. The Act imposes a threshold of 40 per cent of persons of each sex on appointments to senior and managerial positions of the State and public institutions, regional health agencies, the hospital civil service and local authorities. The amendment is intended to extend the scope of this requirement.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u308	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Anthoine to support Amendment No. 8.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u309	It is identical to the previous one. In the interests of coherence and territorial harmonisation, it aims to amend the Act of 13 July 1983, so that the requirement for the appointment of 40% of persons of each sex applies to municipalities and public institutions for inter-municipal cooperation of more than 20,000 inhabitants, instead of 40,000.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u310	Identical amendments Nos 57 by Mrs Laurence Trastour-Isnart, 83 by Mr Bertrand Bouyx and 96 by Mrs Élodie Jacquier-Laforge are being defended. Mr Philippe Naillet has the floor to support Amendment No. 162.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u311	If I may, I will also defend Amendment No 161 in advance, which comes immediately after. The first aims to extend to municipalities with more than 20,000 inhabitants the requirement of 40% appointments of persons of each sex to higher jobs, whereas the threshold is currently 40,000 inhabitants. This measure would cover 262 additional municipalities. Amendment No 161, suggested by the association Sciences Po au Feminine, aims to raise the rate of women's first appointments to the highest levels of administration from 40% to 50% from 1 January 2023.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u312	What is the Committee's opinion on the amendments under joint discussion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u313	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u314	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u315	The issue of lowering the population threshold for balanced appointments in the territorial civil service was widely discussed during the review of the Public Service Transformation Act of August 6, 2019. For this reason, I also express an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u316	I have before me six amendments, Nos 161, 9, 29, 58, 140 and 263, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 9, 29, 58 and 140 are identical. Amendment No 161 by Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel has just been defended by Mr Naillet with Amendment No 162. I call Mrs Emmanuelle Anthoine to support Amendment No. 9.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u317	The Act of 12 March 2012, known as the Sauvadet Act, sets quotas to ensure equality between women and men in appointments to the highest positions in the administration of the three public offices. The rate of women's first appointments was respected until 2016, but it is noted that the last level, 40%, is not achieved throughout the civil service, particularly in the State and territorial civil service. Feminization must therefore continue to reach parity, i.e. 50%, i.e. the balance of the first appointments. This is the position your Government supported in 2019: Marlène Schiappa, then Secretary of State for Gender Equality and Anti-Discrimination, intended to raise women's quotas to 50 per cent.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u318	I call Mr Dharréville to support Amendment No. 29.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u319	It is the same as the one our colleague Anthoine has just defended. The public sector must participate in accelerating professional and economic equality. The 2023 horizon is set to reach the parity level.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u320	Identical amendments Nos 58 by Mrs Laurence Trastour-Isnart, 140 by Mrs Karine Lebon and 263 by Mrs Laurence Gayte are being defended. What is the committee's opinion on these amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u321	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u322	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u323	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u324	Why not?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u325	Mrs Laurence Gayte's amendment No 270 is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u326	I have before me four identical amendments, Nos 10, 84, 94 and 286. I call Mrs Emmanuelle Anthoine to support Amendment No. 10.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u327	Because the public sector must participate in accelerating professional and economic equality, it is necessary that the smallest local and regional authorities reflect on and work towards equality between women and men. Inequalities in career paths and remuneration also characterize these small structures, often located in rural areas, which could draw up a multi-annual action plan for occupational equality between women and men, in the same way as other larger local and regional authorities and public institutions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u328	Amendments Nos 84 by Mr Bertrand Bouyx and 94 by Mrs Élodie Jacquier-Laforge are being defended. Mrs Annie Chapelier has the floor to support Amendment No. 286.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u329	It is the same as the one advocated by Mrs Anthoine and aims to make it compulsory to draw up a multiannual action plan aimed at accelerating professional equality between women and men in all municipalities with more than 10000 inhabitants – whereas today only those with more than 20,000 inhabitants are involved. The impact of the change in the threshold would be significant: an additional 511 communes, housing 11% of the population, would draw up such a plan, and in total 50% of the French population would then reside in a commune subject to this obligation. The argument of feasibility is often used to reject this proposal. However, municipalities with a population of more than 10000 have the means to implement an action plan, as they have the right directors-general of services and structures. Most of them have already begun to do so. Thus, in my constituency, a municipality with more than 10,000 inhabitants is already working in this direction.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u330	Amendment No 269 by Mrs Laurence Gayte is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u331	I have before me five amendments, Nos 11, 59, 85, 95 and 160, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 59, 85, 95 and 160 are identical. I call Mrs Emmanuelle Anthoine to support Amendment No. 11.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u332	It is intended to call for the effective implementation of the multiannual plan on professional equality, because if it is not, its elaboration may become only a formality, without any real action, which would be regrettable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u333	Amendments Nos 59 by Mrs Laurence Trastour-Isnart, 85 by Mr Bertrand Bouyx and 95 by Mrs Élodie Jacquier-Laforge are being defended. Mr Philippe Naillet has the floor to support Amendment No. 160.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u334	It aims to ensure the effective implementation of the multiannual plan on occupational equality. I would like to take this opportunity to say a word in advance of Amendment No 163, the first of which is also Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel. It aims to require, as from 1 January 2023, a joint composition of the juries and competition, examination or selection bodies established for the recruitment, promotion or internal promotion of civil servants in the State, territorial civil service and hospital civil service – whereas today only compliance with a "minimum proportion of 40 per cent of persons of each sex" is required.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u335	Amendments Nos 318 by Mrs Sonia Krimi, 163 by Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel, 319 by Mrs Sonia Krimi, 280 by Mrs Laurence Gayte are being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u336	I call Mrs Sonia Krimi to support Amendment No. 317.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u337	I will withdraw it, but I would like to draw your attention to the day established in the United States, for young people between the ages of 13 and 16, which invites girls to do work traditionally associated with boys, and vice versa. It seemed to me that the choice of 7 March, before 8 March, was relevant, but another day is possible, as on 9 March, according to the preference of the Minister of National Education. The city of Nice is already organising this day, which is not very complicated, given the number of requests addressed to teachers. At the age of 16, young people have not yet made the choice of their profession, which is why such a provision would be very useful, even though I am aware that it must be reworked with you, the Minister Delegate, and with the Minister of National Education.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u338	I have before me two identical amendments, No 12 corrected and 86. I call Mrs Emmanuelle Anthoine to support Amendment No. 12.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u339	It aims to strengthen the integration from secondary education of the objective of a better balance of representation of women and men in higher education. It is thus intended to supplement the measures provided for in Article 5.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u340	Amendment No 86 by Mr Bertrand Bouyx is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u341	The rapporteur's editorial amendment No 199 was not supported.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u342	The rapporteur's amendment No 200 is precise.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u343	Mrs Céline Calvez has the floor to support Amendment No. 313. It is the subject of a sub-amendment No. 350 of the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u344	We hope that the ITC, the Committee on the Titles of Engineers, which evaluates the quality of the establishments which issue the titles of engineer, will be able to ensure equality between women and men and to eliminate certain discrimination. We had listed some of them in an amendment adopted in committee, but our attention was drawn to the limiting nature of such a list. I therefore propose to retain it and to add "actions to combat all forms of discrimination". This approach follows in particular the interrogation of LGBTI students – lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and intersex – who deplore an increase in discrimination against them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u345	Subamendment No. 350 of the Government is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u346	Mrs Céline Calvez has the floor to support Amendment No 308 on the additional Rule after Rule 5c.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u347	It is a continuation of what has been driven by the Index of Professional Equality, set up under the aegis of the former Minister of Labour, Muriel Pénicaud. Over the past three years, the introduction of a limited number of indicators, identical for all enterprises, has brought visibility to what is important and creates a factor of emulation between enterprises. This amendment proposes to follow the same logic for research organisations. The current equality action plans of these research organisations demonstrate their voluntarism; they themselves select the indicators and objectives they set themselves. We want to broaden the scope of the Index of Occupational Equality to include research institutions, asking them to opt for only a few points, but which are common to all of them, in order to increase the number of women in science and research.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u348	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u349	The committee has delivered an unfavorable opinion and I invite you to withdraw your amendment, which has already met existing obligations, in particular the action plans to be set up by public research institutions since the law on the transformation of the civil service. They not only provide a photograph of equality between women and men, but also create a transparent and continuous dynamic.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u350	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u351	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u352	Mrs Marguerite Deprez-Audebert has the floor on Rule 6.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u353	Madam President, the Minister of Labour, Employment and Inclusion, the Minister Delegate, ladies and gentlemen, section 6 of this bill is of particular importance for gender equality in pay. It also sends a strong signal at the European level. In 2019, the pay gap between men and women was 16.7% in France, 1.4 percentage points higher than the EU average of 28. Such injustice shows that it is necessary for France to catch up with its delay in this area, especially as it approaches its Presidency of the Council of the European Union in the first half of 2022. I therefore welcome the measures provided for in an article aimed at enhancing wage equality and transparency in companies with more than 50 employees. The Secretary of State for European Affairs stressed yesterday, in the Chamber, the social issue will be at the heart of the French Presidency of the Council. Economic and occupational equality between men and women is of course one of them. The bill we are looking at will give our government a strong negotiating mandate to work towards the adoption of the European Commission's proposal for a directive on wage transparency on 4 March. Under the European Pillar of Social Rights, this text aims to reinforce – as we are trying to do on our scale – equal pay for women and men. Unwarranted wage inequality is a structural problem facing almost all countries. To tackle it, proactive measures are needed, both at national and European level. The adoption of an ambitious text by our Assembly will be an important step towards achieving this goal in France and then in Europe, in cooperation with our partners.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u354	The Minister for Labour, Employment and Integration has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u355	Article 6 is a new step towards better pay equality between women and men, which I would like to point out has been enshrined in the law since 1972. In order to combat inequalities in remuneration, this majority has put in place the Index of Professional Equality, by the law of 5 September 2018 for the freedom to choose one's professional future: it is the best tool to make lasting changes in practices, as it imposes an obligation to achieve results and creates a common benchmark for rating and classifying companies. The first exercises show that the index changes behaviour: in 2021, the overall score continues to rise, from 84 to 85 out of 100. Even better, the average score of companies with more than 1000 employees has risen from less than 83 in 2019 to more than 88 in 2021, which represents a real increase. Article 6 will allow us to go further in the service of equal pay for women and men. The inclusion in the law of the obligation to publish all the indicators that make up the index will increase transparency on pay differentials. The article goes even further by providing that companies will now have to set and publish progress targets for each indicator as long as the index score is below a certain threshold. This seems essential to me: the law does not simply penalise or encourage, it really encourages companies to change in practice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u356	It's a revolution!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u357	The companies which are lagging behind will now have to publish the corrective measures taken. This will require clear, precise, concrete and transparent targets for those who have significant margins of progress in the area of equal pay. While ensuring that we do not introduce too much complexity for our businesses, this article will allow us to draw, in each structure, a clear horizon, known to our fellow citizens, for a better equality. It is equal opportunities in action: to ensure that collectively set goals are achieved, and that each company contributes at its own level to occupational equality between women and men. It is a pragmatic and balanced article. I thank the rapporteur Marie-Pierre Rixain and the whole Committee on Social Affairs for allowing us to discuss this today.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u358	On Amendment No 113, I have received a request for a public vote from the La France group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. I call Mr Viry to support Amendment No. 130.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u359	This article, which deals with the measurement of the pay gap between women and men, is indeed important. Minister, I agree with you on the objectives. However, I would not want to blur the understanding of the scheme by entrepreneurs, because it will only be effective if it is simple and legible. In particular, the wording of paragraph 2 – and the words "all" – could make the distinction between the obligations imposed on enterprises with 50 to 250 employees and those with more than 250 employees unclear. In order to avoid any risk of confusion and to maintain the effectiveness of the indicators we consider together to be the most relevant tools to combat wage inequalities between men and women, I propose, which would not distort the article, to delete its paragraph 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u360	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u361	Unfavorable opinion. You underline the interest of this article, which promotes increased transparency, which is now much expected by a large number of actors. We would like to publish "all" of the indicators; It would be regrettable if the good performance measured by the overall score – which I welcome – obscured deep disparities between indicators within companies. Thus, the indicator of the percentage of female employees who received an increase in the year following their return from maternity leave shows that efforts must be continued. It is therefore the set of indicators that must be published.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u362	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u363	I hear your concerns, but I think the article is quite clear: it is a matter of publishing all five indicators for companies with more than 250 employees and the four indicators for those between 50 and 250 employees. I propose that you withdraw the amendment; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u364	Mrs Bénédicte Taurine has the floor to support Amendment No. 113.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u365	This amendment and the following two are intended to improve the index of professional equality, which suffers from shortcomings. There are still problems: in 2020, 96% of companies with more than 1000 employees received more than 75 points; However, the pay gap for the same position is still as high, about 11% on average. Several factors can explain this: the index is a self-assessment, which no one can verify; It also provides for a tolerance threshold of 5% of pay differentials. Finally, the rating scale is lax since a 1 % difference results in a penalty of only 1 point. Indicators 2 and 4 on increases do not take into account the amount of increases, but only the number of persons concerned. Some structural elements are not taken into account, such as forced part-time work, or the devalorisation of female-dominated occupations, as François Ruffin said earlier. Finally, companies that have not reached the 75-per-cent mark have between three and four years to comply: it is far too long.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u366	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u367	I understand your willingness to strengthen the index of equality, a very valuable tool in my eyes. But it is not appropriate, and even counterproductive, to change it now. Indeed, it will be the subject of an evaluation by Parliament. Let us wait for the results of this work. Moreover, it is not a simple photograph at a moment t; It measures developments. Changing its structure would prevent us from seeing both progress and setbacks. In the future, I am convinced, this index will have to evolve, particularly in order to take into account certain situations of women that are now invisibility. But, as a first step, let us begin by assessing how it works and allow companies time to take ownership of it in order to better measure the positive or negative developments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u368	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u369	This is a change in the index you are proposing, in particular in order to take into account the distribution of men and women among the employees concerned by low wages or part-time work. I understand the question you are raising, and I agree with you that this index will have to be developed in this direction. But, as the rapporteur said, this index must be evaluated in 2022. I would also point out that it is the result of a consultation with the social partners: it would be inappropriate to change it profoundly without having consulted them first. If I share your concerns, I therefore believe that the social dialogue should be given its full place, and that the planned evaluation should be carried out. Request for withdrawal; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u370	I put to the vote Amendment No. 113.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u371	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 58 Number of votes cast 53 Absolute majority 27 For adoption 8 Against 45
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u372	Amendments Nos 115 and 114 by Mrs Bénédicte Taurine are being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u373	Mr Pierre-Alain Raphan has the floor to support Amendment No. 185.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u374	This amendment incorporates a proposal made by Thomas Saillard in the framework of the consultation on discrimination, which is currently being conducted by the Government. It proposes to enrich the occupational equality index by incorporating indicators of pay differentials among business providers.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u375	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 44 and 234. Mrs Albane Gaillot has the floor to support Amendment No. 44.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u376	This index is largely perfectable, which is why I supported the amendments tabled by Mrs Taurine. Many criteria are not taken into account. Concrete and effective changes are needed to bring about real changes. In particular, by not including an indicator on the number of women in management positions, and in particular on the executive board of management of companies, the index ignores the so-called "glass ceiling", which prevents women from taking up the highest positions. Amendment No 44 is therefore intended to include women's share in management bodies in the index. It takes into account the recommendations of the High Council for Equality between Women and Men.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u377	Amendment No 234 by Mrs Fiona Lazaar is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u378	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u379	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u380	Unfavorable opinion, too. I understand your concern to ensure a balanced representation of women and men in corporate management bodies, and more broadly among senior management, but this will be the subject of Article 7. On the other hand, I think that the index should retain its role as a measure of pay differentials: it is a subject of sufficient importance for it to devote itself fully to it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u381	Amendment No 64 by Mrs Paula Forteza is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u382	Mrs Céline Calvez has the floor to support Amendment No. 311.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u383	Article 6 aims to strengthen the index of professional equality; That's very good. I would have one suggestion: the possibility of including in the index an indicator measuring the use of paternity and childcare leave, and parental leave by men in companies. It would be interesting to encourage them, especially within a few months of the extension of paternity leave. Indeed, from July onwards, dads will be granted 28 days off, seven of which will be compulsory. It will be interesting and important to see how this provision will be applied and felt by society as a whole.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u384	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u385	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u386	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u387	You propose that we modify the Index of Occupational Equality to include indicators on the use of paternity and childcare leave, and on parental leave by men. Beyond the fact that the index has existed for only a few years and that the scheme should be stabilised, it is true that the effective use of paternity and parental leave by a larger number of men must be encouraged in order to promote professional equality between women and men. Today, less than 1% of fathers take full-time parental leave after the birth of their child. That was why the Government had wished to increase paternity leave to 28 days from 1 July next. A mission was entrusted to two qualified personalities, Christel Heydemann and Julien Damon, on the reconciliation of the professional and personal times of the parents. In particular, it should address the issue that you have raised. However, the index of occupational equality designed to measure the pay gap between women and men and not the distribution of the use of parental leave would tend to blur the readability of this tool. For these reasons, the Government expresses an unfavourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u388	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 74 and 235. I call Mr Michel Castellani to support Amendment No. 74.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u389	The index consists of several indicators that are published. The amendment is intended to add a new one: parity among the ten lowest salaries. The aim is to highlight the over-representation of women in lower-paid and sometimes more precarious positions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u390	Amendment No 235 by Mrs Fiona Lazaar is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u391	Mrs Fiona Lazaar has the floor to support Amendment No. 231.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u392	It aims to question the current threshold of relevance, which is to remove five points from the pay gap, and to propose a development by involving the social partners more closely.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u393	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u394	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u395	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u396	I would point out that this threshold has already been the subject of consultation with the social partners and that it is in full agreement with them that it has been set. I invite you to withdraw your amendment; If I don't, I'll give you an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u397	Mrs Fiona Lazaar has the floor to support Amendment No. 232.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u398	It aims to strengthen the relevance of the Index of Professional Equality. To date, it has only taken full-time CDI into account. The amendment proposes to include all forms of contracts in its calculation, including CSDs and temporary contracts, which often correspond to the most precarious jobs in which women are overrepresented.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u399	Mrs Fiona Lazaar has the floor again to support Amendment No. 233.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u400	It also aims to strengthen the relevance of the occupational equality index by integrating part-time contracts, which are often precarious and highly feminized, into the calculation base. It is almost identical to the previous one.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u401	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u402	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u403	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u404	I invite you to look at how the index is calculated: part-time work is already taken into account. As a result, I express an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u405	Amendment No 226 by Mrs Fiona Lazaar is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u406	Amendment No 327 by Mrs Cendra Motin is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u407	I call Mrs Vanceunebrock to support Amendment No. 69.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u408	It is the first signatory of Raphaël Gérard and aims to establish at legislative level the principle of the diversity index, by giving companies who wish to do so the opportunity to publish indicators reflecting their action in the fight against discrimination and the promotion of diversity in the professional world. Indeed, it is now essential that the question of diversity should no longer be separated from that of equality, especially between women and men. Women may face simultaneous discriminatory experiences, first as women, but also because of other reasons such as sexual orientation, gender identity or origin. For example, a survey conducted in 2015 on transphobia in France revealed that almost 17.5% of transgender women were unemployed and that almost 20% of them received income from active solidarity. However, these difficulties of occupational integration are due to discrimination, either during hiring or during the transition which may be accompanied by a loss of a job. According to a study by the European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights published in 2014, almost 54% of trans people have been subjected to harassment or discrimination at work. In this context, it is appropriate to develop new legislative tools to ensure that the achievements of women's economic and social empowerment can effectively benefit all women, regardless of their profile. The diversity index is of dual interest to companies: on the one hand, by assessing the risks of discrimination and developing corrective actions to compensate for their effects on the company's performance; on the other hand, by assessing the risks of discrimination and developing corrective actions to compensate for their effects on the company's performance; On the other hand, by offering them a tool to recognise their commitment to a social responsibility approach and to value the employer brand to attract new talent.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u409	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u410	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u411	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u412	Of course, I fully share your objective of promoting diversity and combating discrimination in the company. However, changing the indicators of the occupational equality index does not seem to be the best vector. It does not seem desirable to blur the readability of this tool by incorporating indicators that are not directly related to its purpose. Above all, the index of professional equality must be easily computable by companies; It's also what makes it successful. The criteria you propose to add will not guarantee this essential aspect. To encourage companies to combat discrimination, other actions are under way. We are working on the promotion and development of the Diversity label, which will soon be published in a renewed specification. I therefore invite you to withdraw your amendment; If I don't, I'll give you an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u413	Mrs Céline Calvez has the floor in support of Amendments Nos 309 and 310, which can be presented together.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u414	In April 2020, the Prime Minister gave me a mission on the role of women in the media in times of crisis, following which twenty-six recommendations were made, of which twenty-four were endorsed by the Deputy Minister, Elizabeth Moreno, and the Minister of Culture, Roselyne Bachelot. The aim of the amendment is to implement Recommendation No. 22. It is realized that in media companies, women do not have access to editorial positions, where content is written. If women are present in the support functions, they are not yet present in the editorial staff. The amendment aims to measure the presence of women in media organizations. Indeed, as we said at the beginning of our debates: it is by counting that we arrive at what women matter. Amendment No 309 aims to create an index for media companies and mentions "the consequences to be derived from the results obtained by the company" – which could include access to certain aids and benefits. Amendment No 310 seeks to introduce the index without mentioning the consequences. The Government was invited to put the index in place by decree, but its inclusion in the law would give it a much stronger foundation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u415	What is the committee's opinion on the two amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u416	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u417	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u418	If I understand and share your concern, it is essential to maintain the universal character of the index, which makes it possible to compare businesses and contributes to its readability. In any event, if specific measures are to be considered for media publishing companies – the print and audio-visual media – they must first be discussed with the industry concerned. Because it is not desirable to reduce the readability of the index, I invite you to withdraw these amendments; If I don't, I'll give you an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u419	Mrs Calvez, have the amendments been withdrawn?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u420	The idea is not to blur the readability of the index because I am very supportive of it, but it is a way of telling media companies what their responsibilities are. I withdraw the amendments, but I would like us to organise a consultation with these companies, which could be launched in the coming weeks or months. Can you commit yourself to this, minister?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u421	You will probably have an answer to your question later, Mrs Calvez. Mrs Bénédicte Taurine has the floor to support Amendment No. 110.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u422	In 2020, as I said earlier, 96% of companies with more than 1000 employees received more than 75 points out of 100. However, the pay gap for the same position is still as high. In our view, this is due in particular to the method used for self-assessment by companies. We propose a new wording of paragraph 4. It would be important for the labour inspectorate and staff representative entities to be able to benefit from the details of the calculation procedures, in return for the negotiations they were asked to conduct. Furthermore, we ask that the company publish anonymous data so that all employees are informed of the level of equality within the company that employs them. Madam Minister, I have heard your argument about the need for negotiations: I believe that the union organizations of employees who support equal pay claims would not take the shade that the National Assembly puts forward and that it corrects it if necessary, since it is clear that there are always pay differentials on an equal basis.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u423	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u424	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u425	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u426	I do not understand the meaning of your amendment very well, because the index indicators are well communicated to the Labour Inspectorate and to the Social and Economic Committee. Your amendment is largely satisfied. I invite you to withdraw it; Otherwise I'll give you an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u427	I have before me three amendments, Nos 247, 287 and 75, which can be discussed jointly. Mrs Fiona Lazaar has the floor to support Amendment No. 247.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u428	The aim of Mr Belkhir Belhaddad's amendment is to strengthen the provisions of Article 6 and to avoid any reversal in the area of occupational equality in companies with more than 50 employees. It provides that these undertakings will have to introduce corrective measures and targets for the progress of the indicators, until a maximum level defined by decree is achieved or the results achieved are lower than those of the previous year. This latter modality, which seems of common sense, requires an inscription in the hard of the law to dispel any doubt.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u429	Mrs Annie Chapelier has the floor to support Amendment No. 287.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u430	It goes in the same direction as the previous one and aims to remove the threshold of 75 out of 100. Indeed, while wage gaps persist between men and women – sometimes 25 per cent –, 90 per cent of companies have managed to exceed the 75 mark. Our intention is not to question or change the choice of indicators selected for this index, but to require companies to increase their efforts to a maximum score of 100 out of 100. We want them to take a proactive approach towards equality, not just a defacto 75 mark, given the definition of indicators, which is easy to achieve, and even, for some companies, to circumvent.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u431	I call Mr Michel Castellani to support Amendment No. 75.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u432	It aims to ensure that the publication of the progress targets and the correction measures chosen are mandatory for all undertakings with an index of less than 100 points and not only for companies with a score of less than 75 points, as currently provided for in Article 6. In this way, even if these results are not subject to financial sanctions, we would encourage these companies to continue their efforts, including when they reach the 75 points score.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u433	I call Mr Viry to support Amendment No. 129.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u434	This amendment allows me to address a question that many SME leaders are asking about the consequences of Article 6 whose purpose we fully share and which we will vote for. With this article, we are changing our minds: for companies, it will no longer be a matter of committing themselves to doing the best we can, but to achieving objectives, with an obligation to achieve results and not merely strengthened means. As you know, many business leaders want the legislative and regulatory measures that affect them to be stable over time. While they are only in the process of incorporating the provisions of the 2018 law, they are calling for the simplicity and easing of certain administrative formalisms. In this context, should it not be accepted that the situation of our companies implies that, as a first step, equal pay, with an obligation to achieve results, is required only for companies with more than 250 employees. The crisis of the covid-19 requires particular reactivity and agility in order to regain margins and competitiveness. This is the debate I wanted to launch with this amendment. I now look forward to your views, Madam Minister and the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u435	Mr Gérard Leseul has the floor to support Amendment No. 164.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u436	Madam Minister, you have said earlier that you want to push companies to set targets for equality between women and men: we obviously fully agree with you. However, you refer to a decree the default threshold from which the company should act. Our amendment is therefore intended to help the Government achieve its goal of occupational equality by making it mandatory for companies to set targets for progress, since only one of the indicators relating to the pay gap between women and men shows a difference of more than 15 per cent.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u437	Amendment No 230 by Mrs Fiona Lazaar is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u438	The rapporteur's amendment No 246 is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u439	I have before me four amendments, Nos 3, 13, 60 and 76, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 13, 60 and 76 are identical. Mr Alain Ramadier has the floor to support Amendment No. 3.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u440	Monitoring of existing joint arrangements is often insufficient and does not ensure that the measures are effectively implemented. That is why this amendment by our colleague Gérard Cherpion aims to ensure that an annual follow-up is carried out by a pilot authority appointed within a department.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u441	Amendments Nos 13 by Mrs Emmanuelle Anthoine and 60 by Mrs Laurence Trastour-Isnart are defended. I call Mr Michel Castellani to support Amendment No. 76.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u442	Monitoring of existing joint arrangements is often insufficient and does not ensure that the measures are effectively implemented. The widest possible knowledge of progress in the area of occupational equality is a first step. While the data are known for companies listed in CAC40, the same is not true for other companies. This amendment is intended to remedy this.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u443	The rapporteur's amendment No 248 is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u444	I call Mr Michel Castellani to support Amendment No. 77.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u445	The aim of this amendment is to make the communication to the Social and Economic Committee of all the constituent elements of the marks obtained on each occupational equality indicator mandatory. At present, the employer of at least 50 employees must make available to the SSC or employee representatives an economic and social database. In order to make this system more relevant, and in line with this Article, this amendment seeks to clarify that all indicators must be included in the database.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u446	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u447	Favourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u448	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u449	For my part, I believe that this amendment is already satisfactory. Communication to the Social and Economic Committee of all the results obtained is already planned, the undertaking being even obliged to give all the details useful to the understanding of these data. I therefore call for the amendment to be withdrawn; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u450	Has the amendment been withdrawn, Mr Castellani?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u451	No, I maintain it, hoping that the rapporteur's favourable opinion will be followed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u452	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u453	[[Smile]] This is your second amendment, Mr Castellani! Amendment No 236 by Mrs Fiona Lazaar is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u454	We come to the amendments on the additional article after Article 6. Mrs Valérie Six has the floor to support Amendment No. 217.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u455	It aims to ensure a balanced representation of women and men in chambers of commerce and industry. Since the law of 4 August 2014 on real equality between women and men, it is foreseen that the candidate for the election of members of a regional Chamber of Commerce and Industry and his alternate will be of different genders. This amendment aims to go further by providing: "The proportion of consular delegates of each sex may not be less than 40 per cent of each consular chamber. The elected representatives of the chambers of commerce and industry will be representative of both sexes.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u456	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u457	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u458	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u459	I understand, of course, the purpose of your amendment and support the feminization of chambers of commerce and industry. They are also actively working with their minister in Bercy and I am pleased that the percentage of women elected has more than doubled between the 2010 and 2016 elections, from 12 to 30 per cent. However, the wording of your amendment does not allow me to give him a favourable opinion. Indeed, the term of office of consular delegates, elected in 2016 for five years, will expire at the end of 2021 and will not be renewed: they will no longer exist. In addition, article L. 713-6 of the Commercial Code, as well as the following, were repealed in 2019 by the PACTE law: they cannot therefore be supplemented. Finally, the election and the role of consular delegates were abolished by section 40 of the same Act. Starting in 2022, the new judges of the commercial courts will be elected by a college composed of judges and former judges – this was already the case before – and, on the other hand, delegates from the members of the chambers of commerce and industry and the chambers of commerce and crafts that will be elected in the autumn of 2021. I therefore ask you to withdraw your amendment and invite you to speak to Alain Griset, Deputy Minister for Small and Medium Enterprises, before the Senate considers the bill. Otherwise, I will give an unfavorable opinion to your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u460	Mr Pierre-Alain Raphan has the floor to support Amendment No. 180.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u461	The aim of this amendment is to continue the approach of the occupational equality index by laying the legal basis for another index to measure possible wage differentials between employees according to their origins. I am basing myself on a note from France Strategy on the economic cost of discrimination at work, in which the institution demonstrates that there are "comparative disadvantages", which questions us. In comparison with the average wage of a man without a migrant descent, a woman born in an overseas department or a descendant of African immigrants, including Maghreb, will have a lower wage of 13%; a man born in an overseas country or descendant of an African immigrant will have a lower wage of 6 per cent; and a woman without a migrant background will have a lower wage of 12 per cent. There is therefore a relative inequality of treatment which we propose to study here by means of scientific methods which would enable us to obtain real, factual figures, to become aware of the phenomenon and to reduce the significant risk of discrimination in companies. To do this, we could rely on the "François Clerc" method, which was recognised and validated by the Court of Cassation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u462	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u463	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u464	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u465	Of course, I adhere to the objectives of promoting diversity and combating discrimination, particularly in business, because, according to the Defender of Rights, this is the first place of discrimination in our society. As you know, taking diversity into account in businesses, especially when it is linked to origin, is a very sensitive and sensitive issue, which requires extensive work that cannot be done when considering this bill. As you know, work is currently under way, involving several companies and administrations. This subject deserves us to take the time to go a little deeper. I therefore propose that you withdraw your amendment; Otherwise I'll give him an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u466	Mr Pierre-Alain Raphan has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u467	[[Smile]] [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] We may need to take time, but we also need to move quickly on this type of issue that we know well and that creates a lot of frustration: we have already talked about it together, Madam Deputy Minister. This is a subject that I would like to follow very closely with you, because there is a great expectation. I therefore agree to withdraw this amendment, but hold your hand. Be assured that I intend to work with you almost daily to reduce this type of discrimination together.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u468	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u469	Of course you're welcome, Mr. Raphan!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u470	Mr Pierre-Alain Raphan has the floor to support Amendment No. 266.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u471	This amendment proposes an annual publication by companies of indicators to measure occupational equality within them, bringing together all the principles of non-discrimination.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u472	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u473	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u474	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u475	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u476	Mr Raphan, do you maintain your amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u477	I will seek advice from Mr Castellani who succeeds in passing his amendments but, in the meantime, I withdraw it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u478	Amendment No 227 by Mrs Fiona Lazaar is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u479	Mr Gérard Leseul has the floor to support Amendment No. 165.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u480	This amendment – Mr Dharréville had tabled an identical one – was suggested to us by the association Sciences-Po au Féminin. It aims to reduce to two years the initial time allowed to the company of more than fifty employees to comply with the principle of professional equality, in order to accelerate the societal and economic change expected by French women for decades.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u481	Mrs Albane Gaillot has the floor in support of Amendment No 45.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u482	As everyone knows in this House, professional equality is a part of social justice and the fight against discrimination, in this case the discrimination against women. We must therefore go further today and be more dissuasive: we therefore propose to increase the fine imposed on companies which do not take account of professional equality and to increase its amount from 1 to 10 % of the wage bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u483	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u484	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u485	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u486	A fine of 1% of the wage bill is already very dissuasive. This was noted with the 342 notices that resulted in the imposition of 14 penalties: companies in default are quickly recovering on track. A fine of 10% of the wage bill seems to me far beyond what is necessary to put the failing companies back on track. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u487	Mrs Fiona Lazaar has the floor to support Amendment No. 228.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u488	The aim of this amendment is to strengthen the penalties applicable to undertakings which, after the expiry of the three-year period, have still not achieved satisfactory results in terms of professional equality. A minimum penalty is therefore set to encourage companies to actively commit to professional equality.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u489	Identical amendments No 14 by Mrs Emmanuelle Anthoine, 46 by Mrs Albane Gaillot, and 91 by Mrs Elodie Jacquier-Laforge are being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u490	Mrs Laurence Vanceunebrock has the floor to support Amendment No. 25.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u491	This amendment by Raphaël Gérard proposes to extend the scope of competence of the designated focal point in companies employing at least 250 employees, in order to be responsible for guiding, informing and accompanying employees who consider themselves victims of discriminatory acts. As discrimination undermines the integrity of the Republican Pact, we have a duty to intervene. Currently, article L. 1153-5-1 of the Labour Code provides for the appointment of a focal point to combat sexual harassment and gender-based acts. However, women may be discriminated against on grounds other than sex: a lesbian woman, for example, may be a victim of sexist acts but may also be a victim of lesbian acts; That's why almost two out of three lesbian women hide their homosexuality in their workplace, against one in three gay men. In this regard, it should be recalled that there has been a marked increase in the frequency of referrals for discrimination related to sexual orientation: "only" 5% in 2013 in the private sector, compared to 37% in 2020. In this context, in order to protect all women, without distinction, it seems appropriate to extend the scope of the competence of the reference mentioned in article L. 1153-5-1 of the Labour Code to combat all types of discrimination, in order to ensure better care for victims and, where appropriate, to facilitate the implementation of preventive measures.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u492	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u493	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u494	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u495	I obviously share your willingness to fight fiercely against discrimination within the company, but it does not seem appropriate to us to entrust this task to the focal point for sexual harassment, when this task could already be entrusted to the ethical focal point. Many companies have an ethical reference within the framework of Sapin 2 obligations. These referents are fully responsible for collecting alerts about discrimination. At the same time, diversity leaders, who are also increasingly involved in business, have taken up these issues of discrimination against women, especially lesbian women. Finally, I would add that there are already very effective legal measures against discrimination, with extremely serious consequences for the employer, who would breach the rules. For example, it is liable to be declared null and void a possible dismissal, while the employee victim has the possibility to initiate civil or even criminal proceedings. I therefore propose that you withdraw this amendment, failing which I would have an unfavourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u496	Mrs Laurence Vanceunebrock has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u497	Although I am not the editor of the amendment, given the arguments you have just made, I think I can take the initiative to withdraw it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u498	Amendment No 281 by Mrs Laurence Gayte is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u499	Mr Pierre-Alain Raphan has the floor to support Amendment No. 26.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u500	This amendment by Raphaël Gérard proposes to involve the branches in the prevention of the risks of discrimination in companies and therefore to include these subjects in the mandatory negotiations on equality between women and men.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u501	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u502	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u503	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u504	It is unfavourable for the same reasons as those mentioned above.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u505	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 24 and 166. Mr Pierre-Alain Raphan has the floor to support Amendment No. 24.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u506	This is yet another proposal by Raphaël Gérard, to set up a focal point within the social and economic committee to combat discrimination.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u507	Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel has the floor to support Amendment No. 166.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u508	We had a whole series of amendments inspired, among other things, by the arrests of NGOs such as ActionAid, which were declared inadmissible. This one's the only one who's passed the obstacle, and I'm really counting on your benevolence about it. It provides for the compulsory appointment, within the delegation of the staff of the Social and Economic Committee, of a focal point appointed from among its members to combat discrimination. It is a proposal that can be easily implemented, and it would be very relevant to give it a favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u509	What is the committee's opinion on these amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u510	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u511	I'm very disappointed!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u512	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u513	I want to stress the Government's determination to combat all forms of discrimination, but I am always reserved when it comes to increasing the number of references in companies. On the other hand, the SSC already has a right of alert, particularly with regard to discriminatory acts and, on the employer's side, many companies have already acquired an ethical reference, within the framework of the obligation imposed by the Sapin 2 Act. These referents are there to deal with the major problems that you mentioned, and our request for rejection does not express the fact that we would not give them any importance, simply they are already being dealt with. If the amendments are not withdrawn, I shall therefore give an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u514	Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u515	I will maintain my amendment because, indeed, there may be an ethical reference, but not all gender issues are ethical and it seems to us important that a focal point be appointed for equal issues.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u516	I'm really disappointed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u517	I call Mrs Vanceunebrock to support Amendment No. 27.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u518	[[Smile]] I once again defend an amendment by Raphaël Gérard, which is decidedly very prolific, according to which discriminatory harassment undermines the professional development of the victims and hinders their career path. As pointed out in the survey of the Higher Council for Occupational Equality, women are particularly exposed to discriminatory attitudes in the world of work. Currently, only gender-based or sexual harassment is included in the risk prevention plan, but other criteria can feed the repeated discriminatory behaviour or speech experienced by women, such as disability, origin, sexual orientation or gender identity, thus creating a hostile or degrading work environment. The purpose of this amendment is therefore to include the fight against discrimination as part of the prevention plan referred to in Article L. 4121-2 of the Labour Code.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u519	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u520	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u521	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u522	Same opinion, for the reasons I have already mentioned.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u523	Mrs Laurence Gayte's amendment No 279 is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u524	The rapporteur's amendment No 249 is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u525	Before we adjourn the sitting, we can begin consideration of the amendments to Rule 7. Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel has the floor to support Amendment No. 167.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u526	In line with our amendments aimed at achieving equal representation, this amendment seeks to clarify from the title of Chapter IIa of Title IV of Book I of Part I of the Labour Code that it is not a matter of ensuring a "balanced distribution" but an "equal distribution" between men and women among senior management and within the governing bodies. We fully agree with all the proposals made, but we want to achieve real parity.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u527	Mrs Valérie Six has the floor to support Amendment No. 215.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u528	It is intended to amend the scope of Article 7 on the publication by enterprises of more than 1000 employees of any differences in the representation of women and men in management. The aim is to favour groups of enterprises, where there is one, with at least 1000 employees, rather than enterprises with at least 1000 employees. A group has great flexibility in implementing these measures to promote equal access to positions of responsibility; To exclude groups of enterprises from the scheme is to open up the possibility of exempting themselves from it for ill-intentioned undertakings, which could then form a group of undertakings with less than 1000 employees in order to avoid being subject to these measures.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u529	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u530	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u531	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u532	The effect of the proposed amendment would be to deprive the measure of effect. Indeed, the group does not have legal personality, and it is therefore not possible to assign direct obligations to it; Thus, it could not be punished for failure, as confirmed by the Court of Cassation. Therefore, in order to keep the measure to its full scope, the planned scope of undertakings with at least 1000 employees should be maintained. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u533	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-12-O1273.u534	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one hours: Further to the proposal for a law to accelerate economic and professional equality. The meeting is adjourned.
