ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1129.u1	The next item is the debate on the deployment of France services houses. The Conference of Presidents decided to organize this debate in two parts: first we will hear the speakers of the groups and then the Government. We will then proceed to a sequence of questions and answers. Mrs Patricia Lemoine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1129.u2	On 22 November 2019 in Amiens, the President of the Republic went to one of the first France services houses labeled in 2020. Following on from service homes to the public – MSAP – these new structures meet a clear objective: to harmonize and simplify access to public service for all citizens, whether they live in urban or rural areas. Nearly a year to the day after its official launch, this new system is on track with its target, 2000 France services houses in 2022, since more than 900 houses have already been labeled. The system of France services houses meets a need that is not new. The territorial divide has accelerated in recent years, cities have become denser and services, both private and public, have been concentrated there; The rural world, for its part, has suffered greatly from this phenomenon and, despite important public policies in its favour, the feeling of abandonment has continued to grow. The finding of this fracture was very clearly expressed during the great national debate in 2019, with many elected representatives and citizens of rural or urban areas expressing their need for a range of public services, rich and accessible: France services houses therefore provide the answer to this demand by bringing together at least nine partners of the State and by offering a new offer of services. This first year of implementation gives us the opportunity, as part of our monitoring week, to take stock of their installation, their efficiency, their visibility and possible avenues for improvement. The objective of proximity of France services houses is translated in concrete terms and simply on a time scale: each Frenchman must be able to access a structure of this type in less than 30 minutes from his home. The canton's administrative scale was considered the most relevant in this respect; and while the canton is the right scale in most cases, its relevance should be qualified in the light of local specificities and territorial disparities. Thus, in my constituency, in Seine-et-Marne, the elected representatives chose to retain the intercommunal level, starting from the existing MSAPs on the perimeter of the EPCI – a public institution of intercommunal cooperation – and taking first and foremost into account the basins of life and the displacement of the inhabitants. This work, carried out in complete intelligence with the prefect and the sub-prefect, allowed us to "derogation" from the rule of one house France services per canton. For too long, our country's disparities have been ignored, and we wanted to administer it in a uniform manner without making the effort to adapt locally to territorial particularities. The right to differentiation that will be at the heart of the 4D bill – differentiation, decentralization, deconcentration and decomplexation – must therefore also be found in the deployment of Maisons France services. The Members of the Group of the European People's Party have thus been able to see that the organisation of these structures can sometimes be very original in the field – I am thinking in particular of this house of the Cher, where the reception of the public passes first by the reception agents of the town hall which houses it, which direct the administrates according to their needs. In this particular case, the elected representatives chose to leave the commune at the heart of the scheme, which I think is very important to stress since experience has taught us that the MSAPs which had been the most successful were those which were mostly carried by the communal bloc. In order for France services structures to achieve their objectives, this observation should not be obscured. The mayors, the DGS – general managers of the services – and the town hall secretaries are great information relays, and it is important that they be involved from the start in the process. The right to differentiation, Madam Minister for Territorial Cohesion and Relations with Local and Regional Authorities, must be a reality in this case, and there must be room for local elected representatives to deploy – in connection, of course, with the prefects – these new structures in an optimal way by allowing them, if necessary, to free themselves from too restrictive criteria. Our local authorities see France services houses as an effective means of satisfying their citizens and revitalising their territory. They are therefore strongly committed to obtaining the labelling and sustainability of already established structures. But this approach has a significant cost. While the State accompanies the communities in the creation of these houses, through an annual envelope of 30000 euros which allows, in particular, to cover part of the operating costs, it is not always sufficient to allow the full-time presence of two agents, a condition necessary for the labelling. Here again, let us show flexibility and let elected representatives of the same territory be able to agree among themselves on the overall functioning of their houses France services, especially when these structures are carried by intercommunality: the rule of the two agents must be able to be adapted, thanks to the mutualisation of human means, since the rise in charge of these structures is often very gradual, especially for the reasons mentioned above. As such, my territory is once again a good illustration of this need for flexibility. Indeed, one of the agglomeration communities has three France services houses, which now involve six full-time agents. If we were to allow these structures to pool their agents, it would be possible to mobilise only four agents present physically, to which would be added a flying agent, for the same quality of service to the citizens. Flexibility is therefore the key to the optimal functioning and quality of service as well as a source of substantial savings for the state and communities – and you know, Minister, our group's commitment to controlling public spending. In response to the law aimed at speeding up and simplifying the public action that we voted for a few months ago, it must also apply to the administrative level, and the labeling must not be a journey of the combatant for our elected officials, thus hindering the rapid and efficient deployment of France services houses. As we know, the health and economic crisis that we are going through will necessarily increase the need for public services for the French. Pôle emploi, the family benefit funds or the public treasury will be widely sought in the face of the wave of bankruptcies and redundancies that we all fear. The France services houses will therefore have a leading role to play, and my colleague Thomas Gassilloud will have the opportunity to question you on this specific point. Finally, the public service needs of our fellow citizens are changing, and France services houses must evolve with them – you demonstrated it to us by presenting a few days ago, with the guard of the seals, the justice point of the house France services of Sorgues. We can only welcome this innovation, which improves access to the law, and we would like, Madam Minister, to have you explain to us in this regard the way in which you envisage the evolution of France services houses, particularly with regard to possible new partnerships which could be on the agenda.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1129.u3	Good!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1129.u4	Moreover, let us not forget that the success of France services houses in certain rural areas will depend on external factors, first and foremost the deployment of very high speed and fibre, which will enable services and partners of the State to be welcomed in remote territories. The health crisis has shown that we can perfectly accommodate technologies such as video conferencing or teleconsultation and has confirmed that the support of our citizens in the use of digital technology is a major issue that not only concerns the elderly: France services houses have all their role to play in this accompaniment for better digital inclusion. Several challenges remain, including the visibility of the devices. Many of our fellow citizens in need are unaware of these services available to them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1129.u5	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1129.u6	In order to have the visibility they deserve, France services houses must benefit from intensive communication at local and national level, thanks to advertising campaigns worthy of this name: President of EPCI, it took me almost a year to make known to my admins my former MSAP and make it unavoidable! Can you tell us, Madam Minister, how we can improve the visibility of France services houses and whether you are planning a national communication campaign? The France services home tool is effective; Let us make sure that we value it and adapt it to our territory, by making a collective commitment here to make it a permanent mechanism as the MSAPs could have been, which we could very well have made evolve, while changing a label inevitably induces costs, both direct and indirect. In any event, we thank you for your commitment, Minister, and you can count on the support of the Action Together group to continue in this direction.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1129.u7	Good thing you're here, because your colleagues are not here!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1129.u8	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1129.u9	The France services houses are intended to respond to a demand which is not new but which is increasing, particularly as a result of the crisis, namely the need expressed by our fellow citizens, whether they live in rural areas or in the sensitive areas of our cities, to see their access to public services facilitated, even though the trend has been, for some 20 years, towards the concentration of these services in urban centres, far from those who, however, need them most. Many examples could be cited, but I am thinking in particular of postal services, as they illustrate, before all others, this decline in public services, as the openness to competition required by European law has profoundly changed the exercise of universal public postal service by La Poste, once the only one to assume it, throughout the territory. This does not mean, in my mind, that it is necessary to go ad vitam aeternam on a traditional conception of public services, whether we are talking about La Poste, public finances or justice, without taking into account the evolution not only of our technological environment, but also of the structure of rural areas or sensitive neighbourhoods. The objective observation that can be made, which corresponds to a heavy trend more than it is by one government or another, is that when one wishes to reintroduce proximity into public services, the State generally turns to local and regional authorities. The France services houses are no exception to the rule, since it is obviously the EPCI – communities of communes or communities of agglomeration – who are the interlocutors of the State, in the continuity of the houses of service to the public. The EPCIs must, however, mobilise their own means to overcome the withdrawals decided by the State, which sometimes result from a more general context than a simple government decision, as I have explained with regard to the postal service. What is important, as my colleague Patricia Lemoine pointed out, is the flexibility of the scope: it is a quality of France services houses in their new version. In France, it is not a community of communes or a community of agglomeration that resembles another. I am well placed to talk about the community of agglomeration Territories of Vendômois, which, Madam Minister, you know well: much more rural than the others – that is its difference – it must therefore respond to the crucial issue of the presence of public services. Similarly, other communities of municipalities have attempted to address this issue in a differentiated manner. [[Mr. Jean-Louis Bricout applauds]] Flexibility is sometimes expressed in the form that France services houses take. I am thinking of an example that you also know well, of an idea that I think is interesting to promote: mobile homes, or at least mobile structures. The community of communes Beauce Val de Loire,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1129.u10	It works well.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1129.u11	...situated in the Loir-et-Cher and in this dear that I love so much, was in this regard a forerunner. Again, the State must encourage these initiatives. If I were to ask only one question, it would be the following: how does the state plan to support the development of France mobile services homes, and what sustainable funding would it be possible to make available for this purpose?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1129.u12	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1129.u13	The Loir-et-Cher is well represented tonight... Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1129.u14	The Government presents the France services scheme as "a new model of access to public services for the French. It aims to enable every citizen, wherever he lives, in the city or in the countryside, to access public services and to be accommodated in a single place, by trained persons available, to carry out daily procedures." Nice program! If only it matched reality! This is, in fact, only a crude palliative to the reduction of public resources, which has led to the disappearance of public services throughout the country. Indeed, since Act II on Decentralisation in 2004, the various policies that are the reduction of the workforce of the public service, the general review of public policies – RGPP – from 2007 to 2012, the modernisation of public action from 2012 to 2017, the so-called dematerialisation policies of the 2022 public action programme, or privatisations – EDF, GDF, La Poste, SNCF – have led to a reduction in access to public rights and services, not only in rural areas but also in urban areas, in popular neighbourhoods, often the most densely populated. The creation of France services houses is not intended to stop this development, but to continue a movement that calls into question fundamental republican principles of continuity and equal access to rights throughout the territory, by setting it aside from the virtues of the creation of a single place, in order to better centralize – or recentralize – thus to reduce the number of people.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1129.u15	She's not wrong...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1129.u16	Thus, in the Pyrénées-Orientales, a plan to abolish thirteen out of seventeen public funds by 2022 is still under way.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1129.u17	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1129.u18	They will be replaced by contact points integrated with France services houses. In Saint-Paul-de-Fenouillet, since the opening of a service house to the public, the permanent offices of the tax controller, the CAF – family allowance fund – and the CARSAT – pension and occupational health insurance fund – have been stopped. Similarly, the social worker no longer moves and the town hall fears that the opening of a France services house will lead, in this continuity, to the closing of the last post office. These disappearances have been scheduled for years. One in two maternity wards and one in two post offices have been closed for 20 years. One school has been closed every day for ten years. The objective of reducing public spending and budgetary rigour lead to a return on what should not be considered marketable: access to the rights of all citizens in the territory. They also contribute to the competition of public services with the private sector for the benefit of the private sector. All this has led to a deterioration in access to rights and a reduction in community-based public services. The reality of the consequences of the policies that the Government has chosen to pursue is obvious to everyone: today, with the health crisis; Yesterday, especially with the mobilization of yellow vests, which largely reflected the desertification of the state in the territories most in need. On the other hand, the need to challenge these policies does not yet appear to have fully informed the majority of this assembly or the Government. In the continuity of policies to reduce access to rights through the reduction of public services, all essential social services, all workers in essential public services, are called into question. State services as important as the interior, justice and public finances have suffered drastic cuts in their workforce as a result of these various reforms, as well as social protection services, employment services, La Poste, key sectors such as energy, with EDF and GDF. All this was done at the cost of access to rights, but also of republican equality. Similarly, since the creation of France services houses is done on a constant basis, within the same framework of the policy of downsizing, there will therefore be no real increase in the services provided to users, both quantitatively and qualitatively. [[Mr. Pierre Dharréville applauds]] You will therefore understand very well why the group of La France insoumée is opposed to this policy of reducing public services. On the contrary, we stand for an approach in the direction of redeployment, strengthening and redevelopment of public services, and we stand for the idea that everyone should be able to live within 20 minutes of the five essential public services. We must therefore call into question all the policies you are pursuing. I would like to ask you about a number of points which are awaiting specific answers from local elected representatives, but it is indeed the whole of your policy that the group of La France insoubted is calling into question in this debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1129.u19	Mrs Sylvia Pinel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1129.u20	I am pleased to discuss this subject, which is particularly dear to me, and I would like to thank the Group of the European People's Party for having chosen it. Why did the Government choose to deploy service homes to the public a few years ago? They were a pragmatic response in relation to operators and communities, to halt the vicious cycle of serial closures affecting certain territories. Indeed, we know that these cascading closures rightly nourish the sense of relegation of the territories and the abandonment of those who live there. In order to stop this movement, I had wished, when I was a member of the Government, to speed up the deployment of these MSAPs. They were intended to reintroduce the services of CAF, Pôle Emploi, GRDF or CARSAT within shared spaces, as close as possible to our fellow citizens, and to re-establish a link too often distended. I had the pleasure, ladies and gentlemen, of visiting some of you. The French services houses, heirs of the MSAPs, pursue this same ambition to accompany citizens in their main administrative procedures as close to the ground as possible. Currently these houses, of which 856 have been labeled, are mostly worn by local authorities. The road is still long to achieve the Government's goal of establishing a structure in each canton and accounting for 2500 by 2022. The latest finance law has increased the appropriations allocated for this purpose, with the aim of accelerating the pace. It remains to be seen whether this increase in resources will be sufficient to allow for a qualitative improvement of these structures. Indeed, the transition from the MSAPs to the France services houses had to be accompanied by an increase in the range and number of services provided. I have supported this objective, and I have pointed out it regularly, even though, as you know, Madam Minister, I have regretted the change of name, which has led to a loss of readability. The association of new operators and the improvement of services are creating additional costs, which is normal. However, the €30000 per house package, financed by both operators and the State via the National Fund for Regional Planning and Development (FNADT), does not evolve accordingly. So that this strengthening of the France services houses does not weigh on the budgets of the communities, already forced by the crisis of the covid, do you intend to re-evaluate the package granted to each house? Moreover, the success of this operation will depend in large part on the actual nature of the promised upscaling. Indeed, if our citizens need proximity, they also need quality service. However, only two persons trained in the reception of the public are provided for in each house: they must be able, at a minimum, to answer the questions of the users concerning the procedures of about ten operators. The training of staff in these houses is therefore a key issue: it cannot be limited to initial training; It must be carried out on a continuous basis, so that each agent is up to date on the latest developments in the operators' approaches. As such, I would like to welcome the commitment of the ANC – the National Agency for the Cohesion of the Territories – to develop continuing training from this year on. The Libertés et Territoires Group will, however, be vigilant with regard to the modalities of this training, in order to enable effective and effective support for staff. The issue of digital technology is also crucial: at a time when the reorganization of state services has left an increasing place for administrative teleprocedures, many citizens suffer from digital divides, whether it be network deployment or usages. In order to remedy this situation, last November the Government announced the creation of 4000 digital adviser posts. How will this system be articulated with that of France services houses, one of whose flagship missions is the accompaniment of people far from digital? The future of the territorial network of public finances is another major concern for the territories. The Government is continuing, despite the strong opposition of local elected officials and agents, the restructuring of this network through the ill-named new proximity network. The idea behind the creation of the MSAPs was to build the capacity of the public tax service, particularly during peak tax reporting activities. However, the gradual closure of many cash flows, replaced by contact points, notably an MFS – Maison France services – is a completely different logic...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1129.u21	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1129.u22	[[Philippe Vigier and Pierre Cordier applaud]] ... and legitimately worried, in the Tarn-et-Garonne, the elected representatives and the inhabitants concerned: I already talked about it yesterday. We must not break with the original ambition of France services houses: to bring administrations closer to our citizens and to ensure the equality of our territories. They cannot be used as a pretext for a further decline in public services in our territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1129.u23	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1129.u24	First of all, I would like to thank the Group of the European People's Party for proposing this debate on the deployment of France services houses. This is a subject that I care about, not only because I come from a rural area, but also because I worked there with my colleague Jean-Paul Mattei, in the context of our report on public services in rural areas. France services houses are gradually replacing service homes to the public. These are physical reception facilities for the public, but also digital accompaniment facilities. Several services are grouped together, with a service base that makes it necessary to obtain the label. If they offer certain services, they should not be used as a pretext for disengagement from the State. The aim is to complement and strengthen an existing offer. The Government's objective is to deploy 2000 France services houses by 2022, with one house per canton, less than 30 minutes from each citizen. In our report, I proposed refocusing the network's grid around living pools, defining a maximum access time of 20 minutes. As of October 2020, there were 856 France services houses in the metropolitan and ultramarine territory. A new wave of labelling should soon take place. The prefects must chaperone the project, in conjunction with the National Territorial Cohesion Agency. On the ground, however, it is often the intercommunities that make staff available and which are at the origin of the projects. We must continue to trust them. In addition, access to public services for people with mobility difficulties must be strengthened: problems persist. In my constituency of the Allier, a France services house is already installed in the Montet, in the heart of the Bourbonnais bocage. A project is being validated in Bourbon-l'Archambault, as well as another project, which is only travelling. The latter was drawn up following a call for expressions of interest by the National Agency for the Cohesion of the Territories. Answers were to be given on January 1, 2021 – we are still waiting. For this travelling house, the intercommunality has made the choice of a mobile permanence in different town halls,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1129.u25	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1129.u26	...which was clearly not in line with the ANCT's design of roaming, which would encourage the presence of agents crossing the territories and operating in a mobile vehicle equipped. When the project was presented, there was a clear lack of understanding. However, it is more comfortable for residents to go to town halls, where secretaries can make appointments. In addition, this places the town halls at the heart of the scheme. The training of officers also deserves attention. It is designed to enable them to give information, manage daily life, support the use of computer tools and assist in online approaches. However, in addition to initial training prior to the opening of a window, training prior to each new procedure is desirable. There is also a need to provide the means to respond to everyday problems. For example, users may not have credit cards, which may be a source of blocking in some cases. The Government is currently promoting MaPrimRénov', an energy-renovation facility. Monday, twenty-six appointments were made in the France services house of the Montet. While most of them related to this bonus, the officers had not received any prior information. Worse, the dedicated green number wasn't reachable. The same concern arose two years ago during the online tax return information campaign. The officers were trained only two days before the closure. With regard to funds, I believe it is essential to secure or at least improve the multi-year funding of institutions. In the past, communities had an envelope of 30000 euros per service house for the public. The France services houses come to supplant the latter and involve more constraints, more services, more agents. However, the envelope remained the same. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group. – Mr. Gérard Leseul also applauds]] "No matter where you live, you must be able to meet with a [public service] representative," said Édouard Philippe in his policy statement in June 2019. What about today? The mechanism is good, the ideas too, but there is still a long way to go before we see a homogeneous and effective deployment, which, I repeat, should not be used as an excuse to reduce supply elsewhere.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1129.u27	Mrs Claire Bouchet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1129.u28	It is with some satisfaction that I address the subject of the deployment of France services houses, which translates the long-awaited return of local public services into our country. It responds to a strong demand from our fellow citizens, which they have been expressing for many years, as they have done during the great national debate. The lack of proximity of the administrations was contributing to a territorial divide that needed urgent action. This is the whole meaning of the creation of France services houses, announced by the President of the Republic at his press conference on 25 April 2019. The guiding idea is to introduce a one-stop-shop policy and to address some of the malfunctions of service homes to the public by raising their general level through a common basket of services. The French can now apply in the same place to at least seven organizations, such as Pôle Emploi, La Poste, all social welfare funds and various state administrations. This service base can be enriched by local authorities and other partners, depending on the local needs expressed by our citizens. For a better adaptation to each other's schedules, France services houses are open at least five days a week. In order to respond effectively to the needs of the people in need, each host official is given full state-funded training to provide first-level information, to resolve the most complex cases and to support users in all their online approaches. We are therefore witnessing the advent of a modern public service, which provides a human face-to-face response to the needs of citizens, while exploiting the potential of digital technology and training people who are far from using the Internet. This return of local public services finds its concrete translation on the ground with a simple ambition: every Frenchman must eventually be able to access a France services house in less than thirty minutes. The President of the Republic himself expressed his wish that a French service house should be established in each canton by the end of the quinquennium. To date, more than 1100 France services houses have opened in metropolitan France and in the ultramarine territories; 800 of them, or an overwhelming majority, were labeled MSAPs, which attests to a real improvement in the services offered. The new France services houses begin a massive deployment of all public services by focusing on rural areas. The development of these new proximity networks is made possible by strong financial support from the State: each labeled structure receives a grant of 30000 euros per year, provided that it complies with a precise specification to which the MSAPs must comply. This is an essential counterpart to ensuring a high-quality public service. These projects could not, however, be implemented without the assistance of local and regional authorities. The State stands by their side, through the provision of equipment for rural areas – DETR – and the provision of support for local investment, in order to cover 80% of the investment costs associated with the creation of a France services house. I hope that this dynamic of deployment will accelerate in the coming year and that the training of host staff will be strengthened, such as the provision of services. While the feedback from the first France services houses is very positive, there are nevertheless some obstacles to be overcome at the local level. I have noticed this in my constituency of the Hautes-Alpes, where some lack staff, in particular the MSAP du Champsaur-Valgaudemar, which deploys on three different sites to adapt to geographical particularities. This house should abandon two of its sites in order to satisfy the criterion of two agents working simultaneously and thus obtain the label France services. The labelling would therefore lead to a remoteness of public services, which runs counter to our common objective. [[Mr Jean-MarcZulesiapplaudit]] More generally, this same criterion of two FTEs – full-time equivalents – per structure is responsible for more than half of the refusals to label: it is necessary to take into account the characteristics of each territory in order to adapt to it. With this in mind, I have every confidence in our Government, especially in you, Madam Minister, not to mention our Secretary of State for Rural Affairs, Joël Giraud, to ensure the presence of France services in all our territories, without exception. Ultimately, the parliamentary majority can be proud to have embarked on the renewal of community-based public services, which must be pursued relentlessly in order to provide our fellow citizens with places to find solutions to the difficulties they face. In fact, simplicity is true protection and service to the public.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1129.u29	Mr Pierre Cordier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1129.u30	Best wishes to all. As a good Gaullist I am, I will try to make the synthesis between the Liberals and the Communists, who spoke a few moments ago through Jean-Paul Dufrègne. I wanted to stress the value of the discussions we had yesterday and today, on poverty, on EHPAD, and now on spatial planning. This subject requires the terrible observation of closures of public services, the suppression of public employment, the abandonment of rural or urban areas, but also of major services, such as the SNCF or La Poste: gradually, the closures of offices or windows handicap our territories. In 2015, the law on the new territorial organization of the Republic, known as NOTRE, introduced the MSAPs, mainly to provide the means to support citizens in their administrative efforts. Finally, Madam Minister, you are following on this point with the previous government. As far as communication is concerned, it must be strengthened because people do not know that these houses exist, as our colleague said earlier. At a hearing in committee, Madam Minister, we had the opportunity to discuss the choice of territorial level. The cantonal capital is often a town centre, with a college and a post office and surrounded by many small communes. It therefore seemed appropriate to set up public utility houses there. The cantonal redistribution carried out by the previous government in 2015 has, however, called into question this logic of spatial planning and shattered a dynamism at work in the departments: the elected representatives that we are all were able to see, regardless of their constituency. I now wonder about the choice of cantonal level. Wouldn't the notion of a life pool be preferable? An interesting experience involving intercommunities was mentioned earlier by Mr Pascal Brindeau. Madam Minister, what level do you think is most relevant? Will you decide to let the territories answer this question themselves? In the case of teams, two multi-purpose agents must be present in France services houses, in addition to other partners, health insurance, CAF, Pôle Emploi and MSA – Mutuality sociale agricole – as well as the departments of the Ministries of the Interior, Finance and Justice. Agents are highly motivated; I also had the opportunity to meet some of them in the Ardennes department, which was a pilot to develop France services houses. Many of their questions concern training: it would seem that it is not entirely sufficient in terms of versatility. In addition, these public service homes would only be open twenty-four or twenty-five hours a week each, which may seem a little short for residents who wish to visit. Have you planned a regular performance evaluation and, why not, a collection of user satisfaction? We really need to ask our fellow citizens what they think of the scheme. With regard to financing, the State pays EUR 30 000 a year, i.e. the cost of an employee within these structures. We know we need two agents: who's going to pay the difference? I have received information that, in my department, it will be the communes or the intercommunals that will put their hands on it. No doubt you will tell me, Madam Minister, that you have put an end to the decline in allocations, knowing that the previous government had nevertheless withdrawn EUR 11 billion from the funds of the local authorities. However, these are operating costs. Particular attention should be paid to financing issues: ensuring that the operating budget of local and regional authorities is not increased. [[Mr. Jean-Paul Dufrègne applauds. – Smiles and exclamations on the benches of the GDR, FI and SOC groups]] In conclusion, France services should not be a consolation to calm users. In this respect, I join the colleagues in the left side of the Chamber – as you know, the Gaullists have always been close to the Communists and share many points in common with them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1129.u31	Long live the CNR!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1129.u32	Citizens would not understand that this is a consolation package for the territories. They tell us, minister: "Where are our taxes going? » Station counters, post offices and cash flow disappear, while taxes do not decrease.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1129.u33	Please conclude, my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1129.u34	I conclude, Mr. President. [[Applause on the benches of the LR and GDR groups]] In territories where economic development is natural and people do not have special needs, the presence of the State is not indispensable. On the other hand, in the territories that suffer, and there are many in France – I quoted the Ardennes department, but there are many others – the state must be more present. You know that, Madam Minister, I believe in the state. In these difficult territories, we need you.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1129.u35	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1129.u36	Mr Philippe Vigier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1129.u37	We are pleased to have such a debate, especially since it is transparent and rather soothing. When it comes to territories, it is difficult to make a speech in the Chamber and another on the ground. The ministerial department you are in charge of, Madam Minister, corresponds to strong expectations of the population. My municipality had the chance to have a public digital establishment in 2002. At the time, we responded to a call for projects from the Centre region to improve digital tools. My colleague Sylvia Pinel, present here, has launched the generation of service houses to the public. And for Christmas, I had the happiness, like others, of finding in my little shoe the labeling of a France services house in the commune of which I was mayor for sixteen years. It's certainly a very nice gift.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1129.u38	Thank you, Madam Minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1129.u39	I invite everyone to read the beautiful book by Christophe Guilluy, La France peripherale, which shows how we came to this spiral of feeling of abandonment, perfectly illustrated by the movement of yellow vests. That has been said, many services have disappeared: primary health insurance funds, post offices, banks, tax services. Sub-prefectures have been dismembered, including that of the cantonal capital in my constituency, whose number of agents has increased from twenty to seven. In the face of this abandonment, it is necessary to offer a rebound capacity, to restore a perspective and to explain that public service for all is not just a slogan, but a requirement. I also mention mobility problems. In my territory, there is no train to reach the regional capital, Orléans, and bus services are scarce. There is also a problem of increasing complexity. All you have to do is look at the different forms to find out. Even when you are an expert in these matters, you have to be brave at times. And there is too little talk about digital illiteracy – who is there to meet in this regard? – and digital sub-equipment. The digital equipment of families living in rural areas has nothing in common with that of families residing in urban areas. It is therefore necessary to build France after, France post-covid, a France that has a much better mastery of digital tools. Our country needs to stay together, to have real coherence. In fact, people from the very big cities wanted to join our provinces. It seems to me that the time has come to give a complementary impetus. My constituency has the chance to be meshed with several France services houses. I am very attached to this tool, which corresponds to the expectations of the inhabitants. I come to a few points of vigilance. In order to obtain the labeling, the file to be drawn up is not thin. In addition, it takes two employees and a minimum of 24 hours to open. I also call on the state authorities to show some flexibility. In my commune, we had some difficulty in making it clear that France services could operate partly in a media library and partly in another place. With a little saliva and persuasion, we have succeeded. The Directorate-General for Public Finance – DGFIP – has sometimes telephoned on Monday morning to inquire about the number of appointments made for the following Thursday. If there were not six, she considered the number insufficient and announced that she would not come. I was forced to tell the Director of Tax Services two or three times that it could not work that way. Can we imagine a grocery store that doesn't welcome the first customer who shows up? No one would come! Since then, things have improved. I would like to tell you about this episode, Madam Minister, because it may not have gone up to you. There is much to be said about the employment difficulties we will face in 2021. In this regard, Minister, I would like to draw your attention to the issue of digital tools. Last week I brought together all the Pôle Emploi teams working in my constituency. Pôle emploi has adapted considerably during this very difficult period, and I had the good surprise to learn that, in my very rural territory, 65% of users mastered digital tools, knew their rights and training opportunities. Previously, we could have job relay points, but they were, frankly, quite static. Now we will be able to have a much more dynamic tool. In this respect, France services houses will have their full relevance. ANCT has an absolutely important role to play. In order to set up the dossiers required under the recovery plan, it would be easier for the state agents to help the communes – of course, the deputies will do so on their side – especially since they must submit their copies by 29 January at the latest. With regard to the deployment of 4G, we sometimes have disputes with operators – some of your employees are well aware of these issues, Minister. It would be good to have a place where we can compare our views with that of ARCEP, the Authority for the Regulation of Electronic Communications, Posts and Distribution of the Press, whose presidency will undoubtedly be entrusted to one of our colleagues,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1129.u40	The hearing was held this afternoon.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1129.u41	... and take stock of the results achieved in the field. In addition, I invite you to go ahead with the development of coworking, which corresponds to an expectation, a need expressed more and more frequently. This will enable us, I am sure, to move forward. In conclusion, I would like to make a few proposals. First of all, I do not see how we can do without the digital application referred to by my colleagues. It requires a simple application, for the use of all elected officials, from which everyone can use as he uses Airbnb. Secondly, it has been said, of course, that it is necessary to ensure the sustainability of the scheme. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group. – Mr Pierre Cordier and Mrs Sylvia Pinel also applaud]] Finally, I encourage you to do the utmost in terms of training in digital tools. The deployment of fibre is a good thing – I have learned of the assessment made by Amélie de Montchalin – but it will be hardly lost if there is no development of uses. I therefore invite you to continue the fight you have engaged in.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1129.u42	Mr Gérard Leseul has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1129.u43	I would like to thank our colleagues in the Group of the European People's Party for putting the question of France services on the agenda. For many users, waiting, lack of response, automatic responses are the main scourges in public services and sometimes signify a certain dehumanisation. It is annoying to be returned from duty, or even to be returned to the Internet, for an increasing number of administrative procedures. To equip oneself with a computer, a printer, a scanner, to have the required skills, all this has a cost. Many of our fellow citizens feel that the state abandons them and, through digitisation, outsources its burdens. In November 2017, a survey published by the Centre de recherche pour l'étude et l'observation des conditions de vie, CREDOC, highlighted the public authorities' sense of abandonment experienced by a part of the population: one in three people thought they lived in a neglected territory. This sense of abandonment is both geographical and social. This perception is very strong in territories outside large urban areas. In 2018, the yellow vest movement brought this reality to light in a raw way: popular anger has taken root in isolated territories, precisely where the state has gradually receded by abolishing a large number of public services. A lesson must be drawn from this: no matter how useful, the development of digital technology and the dematerialization of administrative procedures cannot be an end in itself. The process must be accompanied by a human presence in the territories, to guide, guide, advise and assist the administration. It is fundamental to ensure the cohesion of the country, its solidity and solidarity within it; No one should be left behind. Several speakers recalled this, following the great national debate and in an attempt to respond to the social crisis, the President of the Republic announced, on 25 April 2019, the creation of a network France services. It has three objectives: to improve the accessibility of public services, to simplify administrative procedures to combat administrative error and to strengthen the quality of service through the assignment of multi-purpose agents, which, as has been said, requires training. This idea, largely inspired by the public service houses set up during the previous quinquennium, must be ambitious, Madam Minister. Today the question arises of the pace of deployment of France services houses across the territory. Promise was made that each canton would have such equipment by 2022.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1129.u44	We're far from it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1129.u45	However, on the ground, we sometimes see delays, while the municipalities are making every effort to obtain the labeling of this service to the public. This is the case in the city of Trait, in my constituency. Since 2019, municipal services have been doing exemplary work to obtain the label. Thanks to the mobilization of the mayor and the work of the municipal teams, the commune was labeled by the family allowance fund for the support and access of the inhabitants to their rights through the social centre. It has also been certified by the Primary Health Insurance Fund (CPAM) for the support and access of beneficiaries to their rights. It is committed to reducing the gap in digital usage through the development of a digital space. It is already organised to promote the return to employment through the establishment of a training employment office, a partner of Pôle Emploi. She is also a partner of La Poste, with which she signed an agreement in May 2019. Finally, a training plan for the reception, mediation and support of nine community officers was developed in partnership with the CAF, MAPC and the National Centre for the Territorial Public Service – CNFPT. In addition, the municipality of Trait meets the criteria that you have set, since it is a small centrality, it is situated on an axis of passage of the inhabitants of the canton concerned and it is quite far from the existing offer of public services. The example I come to detail, Madam Minister, raises the question of the ability to achieve the target of 2500 France services houses by 2022, while administrative processing is slow. In principle, there will be a France services house in each canton, less than 30 minutes from the home of each Frenchman. I stress this point, because it is essential: in order to meet the challenge of dependence on private cars, we must limit travel as much as possible. One might also wonder whether, in certain cantons whose territory is extended, a house France services will suffice to satisfy this criterion. Perhaps we should actually reduce the distance you have set. [[Applause on the SOC benches]] In short, France services houses are part of an interesting and necessary approach of proximity, already committed thanks to the service houses to the public. In your words, Madam Minister, the objective is "to raise [the] general level [of these] with a common basket of services", to create real public service houses. However, we should not put aside the hundreds of communes who are making efforts to go beyond their missions, but who will not necessarily enter the system and the field of France services labelling. This investment by local authorities, which has sometimes been anticipated for many years, deserves support and encouragement from the Government. Finally, of course, it is necessary to speed up the current deployment in order to achieve the announced target of 2500 France services houses.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1129.u46	The Minister for Territorial Cohesion and Relations with Local and Regional Authorities has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1129.u47	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I wish you all the best.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1129.u48	Receive ours in return!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1129.u49	Thank you very much. The year 2020 will have upset us collectively. The health crisis, of unprecedented magnitude, has been difficult for our country. It is still a serious economic and social threat to many of our citizens. In such a context, we must collectively be able to count on everything that makes our nation solid, as the President of the Republic expressed in his wishes to the French. It is necessary both to respond to the questions, needs and difficulties of our fellow citizens and to give us the means to build the future of our country, by accompanying the elected representatives and the inhabitants as closely as possible with their plans and approaches, as the recovery plan unfolds in the territories. Although recent, France services houses are already one of the pillars on which we will be able to rebuild our country. I would therefore like to express my sincere thanks to the Group of the European People's Party for having included a debate on their deployment on the parliamentary agenda. This is indeed an opportunity to take a step forward with you on the progress of this programme, and I thank all the parliamentarians who have already spoken.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1129.u50	Thank you for the others!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1129.u51	And those who will then! I see that we always have to find faults, Mr. Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1129.u52	We're listening to the minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1129.u53	If I don't make a mistake, it was you, Mr Cordier, who talked about parliamentary control. When we talk about this subject, we think mainly of the control of the enforcement of laws. However, it can be done in another framework, as public action is not limited to legislative work. It seems to me very important to stress this.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1129.u54	We often forget it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1129.u55	Since 2019, the year of their creation, the objective of the France services houses is both simple and very ambitious: to make live and bring back, when necessary, the public services in the territories. We agree with everyone's observation of the decline in public services, which has been a reality for a number of years. In 2017, we made the presence of public services throughout the territory one of the priorities of our action. It is true that, for many years, some Members of Parliament have reminded us that our citizens have felt that public services are leaving and that they have been abandoned, landlocked or even deconstructed in their own territory. These territorial inequities have damaged our social cohesion, fuelling the discourses of a France cut in two, of a peripheral France, and even of a France that has become an archipelago. These iniquities have been at the heart, you remember, of the demands of the yellow vests and the great debate that followed. At the closing conference of the major debate, the President of the Republic had thus announced his will to bring back public services in all territories,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1129.u56	He doesn't know what a public service is!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1129.u57	... in particular the most fragile, i.e. the rural territories and priority neighbourhoods of the city's policy – QPV. It then set a quantitative target to ensure a homogeneous grid across the country. This has been a recurring element of your interventions, so I stop at it for a moment: yes, the President of the Republic had said he wanted a France services house in each canton, and you asked yourself, Mrs Lemoine, about the opportunity to create one in the intercommunities. It is also a good idea, but the important thing is to deploy public services where they are lacking. In this regard, I would add that intercommunalities are located in cantons. In addition, you rightly recalled, Mrs Pinel, the previous government had created the MSAPs. You regret the name change, but it wasn't about changing to change.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1129.u58	It was just to change the signs!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1129.u59	Our will was to scale up. Indeed, it should be recognized that while some MSAPs worked very well, others did not work well. We therefore wanted to create a system that guarantees an equivalent number of services in all France services houses, so as to ensure that the user can find a minimum of answers. As I say and say again, it is often the local and regional authorities that were responsible for the creation of the MSAPs and are responsible for the creation of France services houses. Associative networks have also committed themselves to the creation of MSAP and then France services houses, I am thinking for example of PIMMS – multi-service mediation information points – which are very present in QPVs. A very important partner, La Poste had also created MSAPs and the group continues to work with France services houses. It is therefore often, if not always, on the ground, in collaboration with the project promoters, that things are built. The number of French houses has been given several times, but it is no longer correct, because we have just labeled new ones in response to several requests. Today, this is exactly 1123. I would point out that we do not proceed with one or two waves of labelling a year. We do it, if I may say so, as the requests come to us. We don't expect to have eighty or a hundred. We grant the France services label to houses that have all the necessary services. Beyond the number of structures, I would like to stress the quality of service, guaranteed in each of them. They concentrate a minimum basket of services, employ at least two trained reception staff, have undergone a demanding and externally certified labeling process and are regularly evaluated. This allows me to answer one of the questions that have been raised now: yes, evaluations are carried out, particularly among users, whose satisfaction rate is very high, since it reaches about 85%. France services is therefore a fundamental movement, but also a profound transformation of public services and of the link between the State, local and regional authorities and citizens. When he announced its creation, the President of the Republic had once again set a clear goal: to forge a new territorial pact. We've been building it for three years with convictions that I've pampered the body, nourished by a long experience as a local elected woman. Solutions to the major current challenges must come, and already come largely, from the territories. The State, for its part, must now be an accompanist, not a prescriber, who encourages dynamics everywhere. You have to do what I call hand-sewn. That is why we are trying to strike a balance between an ambitious specification, which guarantees all citizens the same quality of service, and the flexibility and flexibility necessary for projects to adapt to the territories. The first artisans of this method, of course, are the local elected officials, whom I salute. As you know, I have already visited many French service houses in the country and I can assure you that the commitment of elected officials, municipalities and intercommunalities is exemplary. This enables all projects to be driven and animated, in particular by the provision of premises and reception staff. The elected representatives give the projects their main strength: the local anchor, to the closest to the realities lived. The second pillars of this programme, of course, are our partners, whose strength and commitment I would also like to acknowledge. If proximity is obviously the first key word for France services, simplicity comes immediately after. This was, again, a clear objective of the Government: to simplify the lives of our fellow citizens for whom administrative procedures are too often a real puzzle. I would add that, to take up Mr Leseul's remarks, the important thing lies in the human dimension. They are men and women who welcome you in France services houses and not...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1129.u60	Machines?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1129.u61	... machines, indeed, or answering machines that ask you to type on key 1, 2 or 3 of your phone. This programme succeeds in guaranteeing the same level of quality everywhere thanks to the gathering of a circle of nine partners: the CNAM, the CNAV – Caisse nationale d'assurance oldage –, the CNAF – Caisse nationale des allocations familiales –, La Poste, the MSA – Mutualité sociale agricole –, Pôle emploi, the DGFIP, the departments of the Ministry of the Interior and those of the Ministry of Justice. I take this opportunity to go back to what Patricia Lemoine said earlier. Last week, Mr. the Keeper of the Seals and I inaugurated in Sorgues, in Vaucluse, the first "point of justice", since that is how the Ministry of Justice decided to call this structure which now brings together the points of access to the law, the houses of justice and law and the relays of access to the law. This is a simplification, because these three places will be grouped under the label "point justice", which will, in most cases, be implanted in France services houses. I also note that, depending on the territories and their originality, local elected officials have sometimes created additional services on their own initiative. I turn to you, Mr. Dufrègne, Member of Parliament for Allier, to tell you that I went to the commune of Marcillat-en-Combraille...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1129.u62	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1129.u63	... where a house France services has settled next to the town hall and the tourist office. In addition to all the services I mentioned, the town hall has put in service electric cars, driven by volunteer drivers, to, for example, drive elderly people to Montluçon on market day. It's great, because it's the public service that's developing. I would like to take this opportunity to tell you, honourable Member, that your Bourbon-l'Archambault bus is one of the last labels that has just been granted; Since I was in the Allier, I couldn't tell you. In the same way, I believe that you, Mr Vigier, spoke about this earlier, it is very important that France services contribute to the development of shared work spaces. We also give ourselves the means to develop France bus services in the QPV as in the rural territories. We had fifty-two, and now we have eighty. I would remind you that we are investing in France services houses to the tune of 60000 euros, then in their operation to the tune of 30000 euros. In that regard, you have all told me that this amount has not increased. However, I would point out that the average financing of the MSAPs amounted to 25000 euros, with very large differences from one house to another.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1129.u64	One person instead of two, now!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1129.u65	Wait a minute, I don't blame, I present the system as it was. The average funding was 25,000 euros, some affecting more and others less. We have decided to fix a flat-rate amount of 30000 euros, so that each house France services is assured to dispose of this sum. It is a point to which I am very attached – I say it loud and clear –: while the elected representatives, as well as the intercommunalities in general, are often at the origin of France services houses, it is also very important to maintain the link with each town hall and town hall secretary. I found in the territories that town hall secretaries came to France services to participate in meetings with its animators, thus creating a permanent link, which seems to me very interesting. And then, as you all said, the reception agents, who embody this one-stop shop, France services, must be trained. It's very important.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1129.u66	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1129.u67	To do this, we have created trainings. After receiving basic, generalist training, the reception staff undergo training with the operators who are on site, enabling them to respond directly to the users or to direct them to the competent services. Our goal is that anyone who enters a France services house with a problem will receive an answer. I know that those who go to a France services house do not always know what they are looking for. They hope for a human contact that can open doors for them, because dialogue allows us to identify the problem they are encountering. This reinforced human presence is the key to the success of France services houses, thanks to the commitment of the reception agents, these men and women specifically trained in the various approaches and having tools to accompany those who present themselves at the counter. Officers are also trained to develop new services. Of course, as you said, their training must be permanent, because the services offered by these houses are changing. Training is an essential element, which is the key to the success of France services. As you will have understood, France services is not only a program, but also a community that strengthens over the months and brings together people driven by a common ambition. Finally, and not the least of its dimensions, France services is one of the solutions that the Government provides to support people who are uncomfortable with the Internet and to promote digital inclusion. We are moving quickly, first of all in the fibrage of French territory. One speaker said earlier that, while it was good to have the fiber, it was also necessary to know its uses. However, to know these uses, you must first have the fiber! In the recovery plan, we have provided an additional €240 million to complement a first additional envelope opened a few months ago, bringing the total to €530 million, mainly for departments lagging behind in fibre development. Also as part of the recovery plan, the Government announced that 4000 digital advisers would be trained. Young people will be sent to France services houses as well as to town halls, to accompany people who encounter difficulties in the use of digital technology. It's essential. Let us not imagine that only older people are far from digital. Even if they have a mobile phone, some young people do not always know how to use a computer, for example to fill out a card.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1129.u68	Indeed!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1129.u69	France services will enable us to support people who are remote from the Internet through training, courses or in a more personalised way, and to help them become self-sufficient in the use of these tools. Ladies and gentlemen, although I have not answered all your questions, I have tried to do so. You can now ask me more, which I thank you in advance. For the time being, the programme has achieved, or even exceeded, the quantitative and qualitative objectives initially set by the President of the Republic. If 2019 was the year of the launch of these houses and 2020 the year of their rise in power, our goal in 2021 will be to make them better known. Some have said that communication needs to be developed. That's right. That is why we will intensify it at both the national and local levels, with the help of elected officials and communities. [[Applause on the benches of the groups LaREM, Dem, Agir ens and LT, as well as on some benches of the LR group]] To this end, we obviously count on you to be, in your ridings, relays of France services. You've proven that this is already the case. This is all the more necessary because this programme is perhaps one of the most beautiful symbols of our action in favour of the territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1129.u70	[[Mrs. and Mr. Members of Parliament and the Minister for Territorial Cohesion and Relations with Local and Regional Authorities stand up]] [[Mrs. and Mr. the MPs and the Minister observe a minute of silence]] Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, forgive me for taking the floor with a certain emotion. We have just learned of the death of Marielle de Sarnez, who was our colleague and, for many of us, a friend. We knew she was very sick, but we all expected her back. Let me have a special thought for her family, for her friends, in particular for the Dem Group, and for the members of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, of which she was the unanimously appreciated chairman. If you will, we will observe a minute of silence. It will be up to the President of the Assembly to mention in the next few days his memory, his work and his personality so appreciated in our house.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1129.u71	Even if our mind is elsewhere, it is now up to us to resume our work. We come to the questions. I would remind you that both the duration and the duration of the replies are limited to two minutes without the right to reply. Mr Thomas Gassilloud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1129.u72	How can I not share my emotion with you when we have just learned of the death of our dear colleague Marielle de Sarnez? On behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, I extend our sincere condolences to his family and loved ones. For my part, I will remember her smile, the method with which she chaired the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the energy she spent to make it as participatory as possible. We are debating France services houses tonight. I thank my colleagues for their interventions, as well as the minister, who provided us with some information. My constituency has the chance to have three France services houses: two are supported by the community of communes of the Monts du Lyonnais, one in Saint-Symphorien-sur-Coise, and the other in Saint-Laurent-de-Chamousset. A third one has just opened in Vaugneray, under the leadership of the municipality, and a fourth one is under development. You announced, Madam Minister, that today there are 1123 France services houses. I am delighted that my constituency is so well served, because these houses are appreciated by the population. I salute the local elected representatives and the officers who work there, as they render a very useful service to all. These elected officials have committed funding from their communities, while they are not responsible for the decline in public services over the past 20 years. I will draw your attention to three points. The first is the readability of these houses. When I was a young mayor, there was a public service relay in my municipality. The time to explain what it was all about had become a service house for the public. These are now France services houses. Beyond the cost they represent, these name changes create a readability defect. We will all agree that the name "France services" will have to be retained. The second point I would like to draw your attention to is the commitment of the partners of France services houses. Even if the staff of these are real Swiss knives, let us ensure that the partners do not disengage. In France services houses, I found that Pôle emploi was quite discreet, at the very moment when many of our fellow citizens were going to have to resort to it. Beyond the charter of engagement signed by the partners, it would take a real contract, so that they would not simply provide a reference and a telephone number. [[Applause on the benches of the Action ens group]] Last point: an experiment aims to create a unique telephone number to contact France services houses. The Rhône department will take part. Could you tell us what the objectives are and how it will work? Some concerns are already being expressed. Will staff be required to respond to calls from persons who do not necessarily reside in the territory covered by the said France services house?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1129.u73	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1129.u74	Thank you for your intervention. I heard you well: we will no longer change the names of France services houses and, as I said, we will carry out a major communication campaign. Indeed, we found that, while France services houses were working well in the territories, they were not yet sufficiently well known at the national level. On the other hand, we contract with the operators, because their sustainability in these houses is important. The Mutualité sociale agricole, present in the France services houses, has offered itself as a partner to carry France services houses itself. As you know, the MSA has an important network in rural areas. It has already set up 17 houses: this operator has thus become a project promoter. I take this opportunity to tell you, even if you have not asked me the question, that in addition to the rise in the range of existing MSAPs, transformed into France services houses, we must count the creation of 300 France services ex nihilo houses, i.e. entirely new. I repeat before the national representative that all those elected who would like to create a France services house in their territory can address the ANC, which will accompany their project, alongside the prefects.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1129.u75	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1129.u76	From the point of view of the La France insoumée group, the deployment of France services houses serves as a cover-up to the disappearance of public services, which poses a problem not only to users, but also to the agents who provide the public service. Madam Minister, I wanted to ask you two examples: the situation of La Poste, on the one hand, and that of certain local and regional authorities, on the other. At La Poste, staff members encounter difficulties in carrying out their public service tasks because of the downsizing and the priority given to trade missions, with management looking for cost-effectiveness. Between 2014 and 2018, there was a 10 per cent decrease in staff and an 8 per cent increase in short-term contracts to 13 per cent; However, if the volume of mail drops, the number of mailboxes increases, as does the delivery of parcels. Moreover, staff cannot be reduced proportionately to the volume of mail due to the public service obligation. There is therefore a problem of reconciling the commercial activity of the agents with their public service mission: according to the testimony of some agents, they do not always have slots to ensure the latter. Minister, what measures have been taken to ensure that La Poste employees share their working time so that they can carry out all their tasks, without resulting in suffering, stress and deteriorating working conditions? The second example is the mobilization of agents of local and regional authorities. While these communities suffer from a staggering shortage of staff, some of them even use young people on civic duty or alternates to replace missing agents, particularly in sub-prefectures. Madam Minister, I know that during your visit to a France services house in Maurs, Cantal, you yourself saw the presence of young people in civic service.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1129.u77	Thank you, Congresswoman.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1129.u78	A report by Cash Investigative highlighted the overexploitation and critical use of these young people. How do you intend to put an end to these practices which are problematic from the point of view of the quality of public service, for both agents and users?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1129.u79	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1129.u80	Your comments on La Poste are entirely justified. The Post Office carries out a public service mission; It is itself a public service and a historical partner of the MSAP, since the post offices housed 504 MSAPs, 194 of which have been labeled France services. This means that it was sometimes necessary to clarify the situation and decide between La Poste's commercial mission, as you say, and that of public service. The management of La Poste is fully aware of this. This is the reason why there will certainly be, in the long term, fewer post offices labeled France services than there were MSAPs. On the other hand, the fact that there are young people on civic service in France services houses is positive and encouraging, but these young people cannot replace the two reception workers who must be present on a permanent basis.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1129.u81	Mr Jean Lassalle has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1129.u82	Mr President, allow me to associate myself in my turn with the emotion that you shared with us, with very fair words, at a time when one of the most passionate of us went away. I spent enough days and nights in contact with her passion and her irrepressible taste of life so as not to remember her at this moment. The Libertés et Territoires Group, of which I have just seen the Co-Chair, joins in this tribute. The France services houses are located in the continuity of the service houses to the public, of which my colleague from the Libertés et territoires group, Sylvia Pinel, was originally. I simply wanted to ask you to clarify the kind of relationship these houses will have with the department and the communities of communes and what the financial participation of the state will be: will it participate only a little bit in the beginning, to start the process, before letting the local actors take the follow-up alone? You have said enough in the past, it is desirable, although it is not easy, that such a pattern does not continue,
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1129.u83	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1129.u84	Of course, the priority is to develop France services houses in the country, with the agreement of the local authorities. We do this not without negotiating with the communal bloc, i.e. with the communes or the intercommunalities, but also with the departments. Calvados had developed houses, so to speak "deconcentrated" by the department's departments. Rather than creating a structure, France services partnered with the "Points info 14" – this is the department's number – to move to the same place as them. In fact, the public service is not only the State and its operators, but also the local and regional authorities. In the Essonne, a structure has been set up in a sub-prefecture: the services of the State have thus been supplemented by operators and, if other permanences of local authorities want to settle there, they will be welcome. As the representative of the Group of the European People's Party said earlier, who called for this debate, there is a need for flexibility and adaptation both at the location and on the association of public services in the broad sense of the term.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1129.u85	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1129.u86	Like all of us, I would like to say how sad we are to learn about Marielle de Sarnez's death – these few words are simple, but I think we all feel an emotion at the bottom of ourselves. My question concerns the link between the development of France services houses and the restructuring of public finances. On the pretext of increasing efficiency and in parallel with the development of dematerialisation, many cash markets closed on 1 January or will close in the course of the year. They will be replaced by the proximity reception of the France services houses, which must be provided by a multi-purpose staff of the local authorities or La Poste. This new form of reception was to be accompanied by regular duty stations of tax officers at precise time frames and reinforced in times of high demand, but it now appears that taxpayers will only be able to have physical maintenance by appointment, or provided that the number of applicants is sufficient. Otherwise – or rather a priori – other forms of contact will be preferred: telephone, video conferencing or the Internet. It must be acknowledged that we had been alerted by the answer to a written question I had submitted in 2019: "The agents of France services spaces will be able to present to users who request it the operation of the DGFIP websites and to accompany them in their efforts to declare their taxes, pay their fines, report a change of administrative status or pay local public sector fees. In addition to the answers to their questions brought to them by the facilitators of the France services areas, users will find IT posts with internet access to carry out their administrative tasks. [...] The multi-purpose animators of France services spaces will be trained by DGFIP on the subjects of its competence. » My question reflects a real concern: do you not fear that, in a few years, a famous part of General de Gaulle will be plagiarized? "The France services houses had an appearance: a quarter of glorified missions. They had a reality: a package of discount services, provisionally funded, ersatz of public services removed. But that's a simple question.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1129.u87	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1129.u88	[[Applause on several benches of the Dem, Active ens and IDU-I groups]] Since I'm not a retired general, but a trooper, you can count on me.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1129.u89	Mrs Célia de Lavergne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1129.u90	Allow me to associate the La République on the move with the emotion, sadness and emptiness that we are living in as we learn of the passing of President Marielle de Sarnez, and to extend our condolences to her friends, her loved ones, her colleagues in the Dem Group and to you, Madam Minister. The France services houses, which have been deployed for two years, are working very well. They represent the rehumanization of public service, proximity and availability; France services houses sign, at the bottom, the return of public services to the territories after too many years of distance. We welcome this success, and I would like to thank you personally, Minister, for the investment you have made in this matter since the first day. That has been said, it is necessary to deploy massive communication to the farthest audiences. I have two questions. The first concerns the territories, such as the Drôme Provençale, which have lived with emotion the reorganization of the Directorate-General for Public Finance, which has blocked the fluidity of the efforts to label, causing delays. These territories need time: do you think that it would be possible, by way of derogation and targeted, to shift from 31 December 2021 to mid-2022 the deadline to carry out the approach of labeling France services? Secondly, in the most remote territories, France services houses are supplemented by buses subsidized by calls for projects from the State. They already exist in Die, where they are popular. Other municipalities are waiting for an answer, such as Beaufort-sur-Gervanne, which responded to a call for projects last fall. When will these municipalities know if their candidacy is successful? How many buses will be deployed and municipalities served to improve service as close as possible to the inhabitants?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1129.u91	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1129.u92	We aim to deploy at least 2000 France services houses in the territory by the beginning of 2022. With the ambition of having a grid of 2500 houses by the end of 2022, the labelling will continue and all territories will be able to open France services houses throughout the year 2022. Furthermore, with regard to the deployment of France services buses, which I have already announced will continue, the winners of the call for projects for the deployment of fifty new buses are expected to be announced in January. The number of communes visited by buses depends on the pattern planned for each bus and can evolve: I am therefore not able to tell you the exact number of communes covered, which also depends on the morphology of the territories. In Corsica, where such a project is under development, moving from village to village is much longer than on the plains of the Beauce, for example. We will therefore only be able to specify the extent of the coverage of France services buses once it has been planned.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1129.u93	Mr. Stéphane Travert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1129.u94	Madam Minister, this evening we share your grief and that of your colleagues in the Group of the Democratic Movement (MDEM) and related democrats. Just a year ago, the first 460 France services houses in our country opened their doors. On 14 November, the second interministerial committee for rural areas decided to label 323 new entities, bringing the number of France services structures to 856. By 2022, new labels will extend the network, as you have reminded us, with the ambition of counting one house France services per canton by the end of the quinquennium, a total of 1,800 structures. The delegation to local authorities and the decentralization of the National Assembly, which I associate with my question, has accompanied and defended with conviction this deployment in the service of our fellow citizens. This initiative has begun to bear fruit in the daily life of the French: contact its reference to Pôle emploi, fill out an online form, ask for allowances, all of which are carried out in these one-stop shops that sign the return of public service to the heart of the territories and to the nearest place where people live. The goal, in the long term, is that every Frenchman can access a France services structure in less than 30 minutes. But another method of France services could further reduce this delay – or at least ensure its effectiveness in the most remote areas: the France services buses, to which my colleague Célia de Lavergne has just referred in her question. Taking itinerant permanences in the villages, allowing users to carry out the main administrative procedures of the daily in a single place, these buses will be welcome in rural areas. In my department of the English Channel, an association has developed the expertise of a travelling bus in a completely different field, that of parenting. The two vehicles of the Parentibus association travel a good part of the department to listen to parents and grandparents, and to fill the shortage of services in rural areas. The deployment of France services buses, which pursue the same objective, has begun: how do you envisage it and how does the State intend to accompany each initiative? Like the Allier, could the English Channel participate in the experiment of the itinerant buses France services? Finally, can you point out a specific point in the progress of the deployment of the France services network throughout the national territory?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1129.u95	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1129.u96	Listening to you, I remembered that the France services du Cantal buses, at the inauguration of which I had visited, already existed thanks to an initiative of the department – this information will also complement my response to Jean Lassalle. The department contacted us to install other services alongside theirs, in order to obtain the France services label. Of course, we share your interest in France services buses, a tool of great flexibility – as you said – which is particularly suitable for rural areas. We have also launched the experimentation of such buses in the QPV and the republican reconquest districts, and it works very hard! These buses allow in fact to pool resources and extend the territorial coverage – I recalled earlier in reply to Célia de Lavergne – which is obviously the guarantee of a service rendered. France services buses are therefore particularly relevant. We already have fifty-two buses. In order to ensure optimal coverage of the priority areas of the city's policy, a first call for expressions of interest for the deployment of thirty France services buses was launched, in the summer of 2020, as part of the operation Quartiers d'été, which you know well and which I initiated with Julien Denormandie. Moreover, as I explained earlier, in addition to the operating allocation of EUR 30 000 which the State grants to each bus, any project may receive investment aid amounting to EUR 68,000. In line with this initiative, a new call for expressions of interest aimed at strengthening investment in fifty new France services buses will be launched shortly. In addition, another project, which has already been launched in rural areas, has been very successful. The list of winners of the 50 bus project will soon be announced.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1129.u97	Mrs Emmanuelle Anthoine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1129.u98	In my turn, on behalf of the Republican Group, I would like to share the pain of family, friends and the political group of President Marielle de Sarnez. I extend our condolences to them. Announced by the President of the Republic on 25 April 2019 to get out of the yellow vest crisis, France services houses must meet the need for proximity to public services. It was in this context that I worked with the services of the Drôme prefecture on their deployment. The France services houses are supposed to be distinguished by the quality of the service offered to the citizens, but, Madam Minister, what about their effectiveness in practice? How is compliance with the specifications imposed on them monitored? How many officers have been specially trained? You recalled that 1123 France services houses had already been labeled: therefore the question of the first results arises. What about the first evaluations of these new structures? Earlier, you announced a user satisfaction rate of 85%. But is there an increase in the use of France services houses? It is important to know the real added value they bring. The origin of these structures is another important issue. Indeed, since most France services houses are old service houses to the public, how many of them were created ex nihilo? This number cannot be marginal, at the risk of confirming the fears of a reclothing, at little cost, of the former MSAP created during the quinquennium of François Hollande? There were 1340, forced to gradually transform into France services houses, otherwise they would lose their funding. The State's effort to reach 2,000 labeled structures seems ultimately limited. Madam Minister, by answering these different questions, can you point out the relevance of the deployment of this new label which is France services?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1129.u99	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1129.u100	First of all, 300 France services houses were created ex nihilo. In addition, quality audits are carried out, before the labeling and, on a regular basis, as a check. In addition, more than 2,500 officers have been specially trained. The attendance of France services houses is constantly increasing, and no less than 150,000 requests are processed each month in all these structures, which is very high. Of course, attendance varies from house to house, depending on their location; But all the houses are working, as the figures I have given you prove. Requests are met and quality audits are conducted on an ongoing basis. Finally, I would like to inform you that the best practices are disseminated within the network of France services houses that we have created.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1129.u101	Mrs Emmanuelle Anthoine has the floor for a second question.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1129.u102	I would now like to look at the levers that would allow France services houses to overcome the territorial divide. The President of the Republic rightly observed that "the public service homes were used to close postal services or offices". On the basis of this observation, we are entitled to ask ourselves about the new France services label: is it not the mere extension of this policy? Far from overcoming the territorial divide, France services houses would therefore appear to be the only ones. In its report, the "Rural Agenda" mission called for the priority to be given to the installation of France services houses within the town halls – you recalled the importance of this relationship, and it is also the way that I think should be given priority. But, in fact, what about it? While one of the great sufferings of rural areas is the difficulty of accessing an internet connection, France services houses represent a promise to develop digital access. But in order for it to become a reality, it is necessary that, beyond mere access to computer equipment, a real accompaniment be offered. Digital training must be available. Hence my question: does the offer of services offered by these structures correspond well to the announcements made at the beginning? In addition, while nine partners must systematically be accessible in each France services house, other partnerships are expected to enrich this offer. What about it? How many structures offer access to these optional services and other partners? What kind are they of? So, Madam Minister, are France services houses really the right answer to the territorial divide that we know?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1129.u103	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1129.u104	[[Smile]] To hear your questions, you don't seem convinced! First of all, I would like to point out that France services houses are deployed in relation to local authorities: of course, it is not a model that applies vertically in the territories but, in 85% of cases, a structure built, considered and developed for and with local elected representatives – in the other cases, it is an associative structure or led by La Poste. So be assured that we are working with local and regional authorities. The last France services house I visited, in Sorgues, in the Vaucluse, brings together twenty-one services. Installed within an old school space, it also offers an intelligent organisation around different poles: for example, the support window for entrepreneurs by the CCI – Chamber of Commerce and Industry – next to that of Pôle Emploi and that of the departmental support service for the unemployed and the beneficiaries of the RSA – income of active solidarity. This house France services was created at the initiative of the municipality of Sorgues. In fact, Senator Alain Milon, who created, even before the MSAPs, the public service relays, was mayor of Sorgues. You see, therefore, that the creation of public services in the territories and of houses where answers can be found is often the result of the will of the elected representatives. There is also a need to distinguish between the use of information technology and the use of information technology. First of all, France services houses often have one, two or even three computers in open access. Secondly, they provide support for digital inclusion, i.e. support for people who come to learn how to use computers; I repeat, 4000 accompanying posts will be created by the Government. Finally, when an elderly person does not know how to complete his or her tax slip online, he or she may be assisted either by one of the two permanent agents or by a DGFIP officer present on the spot. The "connecting helper" system ensures both the safety of the attendant and that of the user by avoiding the capture of information. We must not confuse these various ways of using computers, a subject on which we have worked a great deal.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1129.u105	Mr. Laurent Garcia has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1129.u106	Tonight, our group is sad; our group is cold; Our group is in mourning, like the Republic itself: former Minister Marielle de Sarnez, our colleague Marielle, has left us. For this tireless activist, this European more than convinced, all superlatives will be below reality. The Group of the Democratic Movement – MoDem – and related democrats extends their condolences to his family, to the centrist family, to all those who loved him. My question concerns the reflection to be carried out with a view to the creation of a France services house as part of an urban renewal project, and the possibility of complementarity between this structure and the existing "Cités éducatifs" scheme. I take the example of Laxou, a medium-sized town in my constituency. One of its neighbourhoods, recognized as a national priority, benefits from the new urban renewal programme; Another of its neighbourhoods, intercommunal and already renovated, has received the label "Educational cities". The creation of a France services house is necessary, but all the actors have argued for other emergencies, especially that of human and financial means to offer the children of the neighborhood under renovation a suitable educational policy, which ensures their academic success. School groups in this neighbourhood are strongly stigmatized because of their lack of resources and low social mix; Renovation will not be enough to solve this problem, since parents, considering that these institutions do not guarantee quality learning, are enrolling their children in other structures. This is why the community, social workers, associations, education and health professionals are wondering if it would be possible to extend to this area the objectives and resources allocated to the neighbourhood of the same city that has been awarded the "Educational Cities" label. After analysing the needs of the socio-economic category to which the parents and children concerned belong, the creation of a France services house oriented in part towards educational success seems absolutely logical. Therefore, I ask you about the possibility of combining the two devices, thanks to an extension of the scope of the "Educational Cities" label.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1129.u107	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1129.u108	Thank you for your question, which gives me the opportunity to pay tribute to the spirit behind the deployment of the "Educational Cities" scheme, aimed at bringing the school closer to parents, associations and the social fabric in short. This is a real step forward, which I am sure will make a difference for many young people in the neighbourhoods. Nadia Hai, who promotes this project, is particularly attentive to it. As it strengthens the presence of the state in the territories, the France services scheme of course joins the ambition of the label "Cités éducatifs", which consists of strengthening the public service of education where the need arises. The ANCT also ensures the coordination of these two actions: this is the advantage of having brought together the territorial support programmes within the same structure. However, you will agree that these devices are very different. Their criteria are not the same; They cannot be, since one concerns children and young people, the other concerns citizens. I assure you that I will nevertheless ensure that the synergies between France services and the other ANCT programmes are maximized, in order, perhaps, to develop a France services house in the territory you mentioned.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1129.u109	Mr Alain David has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1129.u110	The Committee on Foreign Affairs had in Marielle de Sarnez a great chairman, for whom I enjoyed a great deal of sympathy. We knew it badly, but we all hoped it would defeat this terrible disease; I'm very sorry and I'm very affected by his death. I extend my condolences to his family and to his parliamentary group. Minister, Gérard Leseul, on behalf of the Socialist and Related Group, reiterated the absolute need to ensure a human presence within the territories that can guide, guide, advise and assist the people in their actions. It is for this reason that we follow with particular attention the deployment of the network of France services houses. Beyond the pace at which the coverage of the territory takes place and the promise to set up one of these houses in each canton by 2022 to respond to the feeling of neglect and abandonment felt by too many of our fellow citizens, the real public service of proximity is first and foremost embodied by the town halls. [[Mr. Gérard Leseul applauds]] Gérard Leseul pointed out, it is essential that the municipalities that play the game of France services labelling and who make significant efforts are recognised and valued. The commune must be strengthened in its role of first contact, which directs the inhabitants towards the right interlocutor. After the presidential announcement in April 2019 of the creation of France services houses, some associations of local elected officials had objected that they already existed in the form of the MSAPs, enshrined in the NOTRE law. Can you tell us whether the MSAPs were the subject of the analysis requested by the Court of Auditors? How can they be labeled as France services houses?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1129.u111	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1129.u112	I fully agree with you on the fundamental nature of a human presence, as well as on the fact that the town halls remain, within the territories, the first institutional place of reception. On the other hand, you are aware that, precisely to safeguard these town halls to which we are very attached, some of them, located in extreme rural areas, have rather restricted reception times. The France services houses then ensure a good complementarity. Moreover, the MSAPs can be fully labeled and become France services houses, provided that they comply with the charter and have operators, a building and a sufficient reception. We obviously accompany local authorities who want to create a France services house, often thanks to the DETR or the DSIL – support for local investment. Well, if you don't mind, Mr. President,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1129.u113	Please, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1129.u114	...I would like to thank the Members for the words they had about Marielle.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1129.u115	Thank you very much, Minister. The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-13-O1129.u116	Next meeting, tomorrow, at 9 a.m.: Questions on the development of wind turbines in the territory; Debate on the conclusions of the report of the commission of inquiry on obstacles to the independence of the judiciary. The meeting is adjourned.
