ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u1	The next item is the question to the Government. I would remind you that the Conference of Presidents on 19 January decided that the first nine questions would be devoted to European subjects on a group-by-group basis.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u2	Mr Adrien Quatennens has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u3	Mr President, you wanted each group to devote one of its questions to Europe. If one can be surprised at such a process, it gives us the opportunity to put an end to the eternal concert of praise without nuance about the European Union. Last month, it was even learned that public service journalists are being encouraged by bonuses to talk about Europe. It is a matter of trying to bring into all minds this idea of a Europe that protects, the majority of which has made a slogan, at a time when everyone is seeing its failures, including with regard to vaccines. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group. – MM. Stéphane Peu and Loïc Prud-homme also applaud]] My question is therefore for the Prime Minister. A few years ago, one wondered what the next country would be to join the European Union; Now we can ask ourselves what the next one will be to leave her. For we must call a cat a cat: the European Union that we have before us has nothing to do with the ideal of cooperation between the peoples imagined by its founders. The European Union is nothing more than a market where wild competition prevails under its treaties which prohibit social and fiscal harmonisation and which apply despite the clear refusal expressed by the French in the 2005 referendum. This is how you will deconstruct a French flagship like EDF, only to satisfy the ideological demands of the European Commission. Worse still, it is within the European Union itself that this separatism that you do not want to talk about is the separatism of the rich. While 10 million French people are hit by poverty, the OpenLux revelations indicate that 15,000 French people own an offshore company in Luxembourg, a tax haven in the heart of Europe. This concerns thirty-seven of the country's fifty richest families. Thus, 100 billion euros, twice the annual service of this debt that you want the French to repay to the sweat of their forehead, escape tax. What are you waiting for to recover this money, for example by introducing a universal tax system?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u4	The Secretary of State for European Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u5	Mr President, you are encouraging a reflection on Europe by welcoming the fact that we have a democratic and political debate on the subject. You are right: talking about Europe in itself is not a militant gesture, it is a democratic gesture. Then, of course, we can have different opinions. I agree with you that the European Union must not be – and I believe it is less and less – a mere market. I invite you to look with a look today, not with the glasses of yesterday, this Europe that we are building. Europe has changed, Europe is changing under the impetus of France. The response to this crisis, if it is not perfect, has marked some progress that we could not imagine a few months ago. I am taking the example you mentioned of the vaccination policy. We probably have shortcomings in Europe and we must accelerate, we agree, but if we had not acquired vaccines together, today we would be less well protected in France and in all the countries of the Union. You are talking about a Europe that is a market, a liberal Europe. It is this Europe that has built, under the impetus of France, an unprecedented recovery plan of 750 billion euros, with a common debt and, soon, European own resources that will tax precisely the big digital companies you are talking about, in order to respond to the economic and social emergency together in Europe. [[Rites and exclamations on FI banks]] This is not the Europe of the Greek crisis, it is not the Europe of austerity of the years 2010 and 2011. This Europe has changed and I invite you to work with us to move it forward rather than to be in a systematic critique, here and elsewhere in the European Parliament. You are referring to the subjects of fiscal harmonisation and social harmonisation, and that is a good thing, since it is also a fight we are fighting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u6	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u7	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] I would remind you that, on seconded work, for example in the field of social dumping, we have achieved progress, and we need to go even further. On the tax question, we can settle for denunciations and declarations. But we must act, and that is what we are doing with regard to the taxation of large digital companies. We are also making sure that voting rules are changed, in particular by unanimity, to move forward on these issues. We are working together instead of denouncing a Europe that is no longer that of the last fifteen years.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u8	Mr Jean-Charles Larsonneur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u9	Mrs de la Mer, Mrs de Bretagne de Normandie or Mrs des Hauts-de-France, there are many Members of the Group of the European People's Party whose territories are directly affected by the consequences of Brexit, and I would like to associate them closely with my question. The British chose to leave the European Union in order to be able to diverge, no longer subject to the rules of the single market. This deregulation carries the risk of dumping. The British government has just announced the creation of a dozen free ports across the country. In doing so, London seeks to position itself as a hub, a logistics and industrial enclave at the gates of the European market. In the context of Brexit, what is France's maritime and port strategy? What is the state of play on the creation of free zones and ports in response to British initiatives? [[Applause on the benches of the Action ens group]] Another area of concern is the introduction of the European Travel Information and Authorisation System – ETIAS. The operators of the trans-manche traffic, ports, ferry shipowners and also Eurotunnel, are concerned about the costs of setting up this system by the beginning of 2022. Indeed, the re-establishment of the Franco-British border results in significant burdens for the sector, which already suffers from a sharp decrease in traffic, especially for passenger traffic due to the crisis of the covid-19. How do you intend to support the players in the sector and mobilise the European support fund for Brexit?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u10	The Minister for the Sea has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u11	You're right, we've talked a lot here, in the case of Brexit, about fishing, but other announcements have often covered the headlines, including the creation of ten free ports by the British. The wish of the British head of government to make a Singapore on the Thames is not known in detail to date. As we know, the question of free port seen in English or by other States may be different. Olivier Dussopt, Agnès Pannier-Runacher, Jean-Baptiste Djebhari and I have proposed to the Prime Minister that he create a mission on the special economic harbour areas. This mission, which was launched in Le Havre and entrusted to the Interministerial Committee on the Sea – CIMER – is expected to reach its conclusions within three months. You asked a second specific question about the entry and exit system introduced by Europe in 2017 and which naturally applies to the United Kingdom since it is now a third country. You are right, we are preparing for it, which will require investments in ports. We have 15 months to reorganise ourselves with all the partners since this mechanism will come into force in May 2022. Of course, this entails new costs for operators who have already suffered with the crisis of the covid-19. The Prime Minister had also announced strong support for these companies; we will continue to accompany them. The question of the Brexit fund is raised. More precise definitions will be given. I remind you that the Fontenoy of the maritime will bring answers in the longest term, to make France a real maritime place.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u12	Mr Jean-Charles Larsonneur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u13	[[Applause on the benches of the Action ens group]] I hope that the large seaports will be included in the reflection on the free ports, but not only. It is also necessary to consider the planning of the territory and the other ports of France.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u14	Mr Claude de Ganay has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u15	[[Applause on a few benches of the LR group]] Madam Minister of Armed Forces, I welcome the decision of the Head of State, at the end of the N'Djamena summit, to strengthen our military action in the Sahel by sustaining the presence of our 5100 soldiers on the spot. When asked about the added value of the Takuba task force of 250 Estonian, Czech and Swedish soldiers, you say that it is difficult to define a satisfactory arithmetic threshold. Yet our recent tactical success, Operation Eclipse, has mobilized more than 3400 soldiers, thirteen times the current size of Takuba. How can we bear that the exceptional women and men of our armies are the only ones in Europe to pay the price of blood? This European weakness increases our dependence on the Americans, whose new administration has been very evasive about the future of their contribution. You were already announcing in 2017 that "The G5 Sahel is an initiative that is growing in power," which you kept before the Senate last week. Some would like to see greater use of official development assistance. However, the World Bank recalled that the effectiveness of aid depends on the quality of the institutions of the countries receiving it. For the time being, there is no state in Mali. It is therefore premature to consider this option until the political and security situation in the region is stabilized. The French no longer adhere to this well-structured communication. A majority of them are now against Operation Barkhane, which is essential. I share the words of your own majority, who, in a recent forum, regret that our action in the Sahel is more a project logic than a long-term strategic vision. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Minister, are our great European allies ready to send soldiers on the front line to support our forces and participate in European security? Are you confident that the G5 Sahel forces will be able to provide their own security, not in ten years' time, but in the short term? In the Sahel, our army wins battles, but if we do not share the security burden, we will lose the war.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u16	The Minister of the Armed Forces has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u17	Mr President, France is not alone in the Sahel. The Sahel is certainly the place where the Europe of defence is embodied in the most concrete way that is, because in the face of terrorism, Europeans have become aware of the common destiny that they share, as unfortunately illustrated by the terrorist attacks on European soil in recent years. As the President of the Republic asked this morning after the successes that have been recorded throughout 2020 against Daesh in the Greater Sahara, it is now against Al Qaeda that we must continue our efforts. Little is known: more than 2500 European military personnel are engaged alongside us in the Sahel, 1500 in the United Nations operation, more than 500 in the European Union operation, more than 100 in bilateral training missions and more than 400 in Barkhane and the Takuba force, which is now supported by nine European countries, including Estonia, which has already participated in combat operations, including the Czech Republic and Sweden, which deploy their contingents. In 2021, this European effort will be further strengthened. Germany, which now deploys more than 800 troops, will increase its European Union training mission in Mali – EUTM by 450 units. For the same reason, Spain will increase its contingent by 600 personnel and Takuba will continue its rise in power. Finally, the British who supplied Barkhane with heavy transport helicopters have also recently deployed 300 troops to the United Nations in Mali. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Mr President, it is in the Sahel that defence Europe finds its most concrete expression because Europeans on the ground who fight terrorism and who do so at the risk of their own lives, is an example of a European commitment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u18	Mr Alexandre Holroyd has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u19	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] Minister responsible for European Affairs, it took almost half a decade of hard negotiations to conclude the terms of the UK's exit from the European Union. At the end of these negotiations, and despite the regrets we may have about the initial decision of the British people, we can be pleased: our European and national interests prevailed. Our fellow citizens and three million Europeans living in the United Kingdom see almost all of their rights preserved and endorsed in an international agreement. Our common market is protected and strengthened. Our companies, farmers and wine growers will continue to have access to the UK markets without tariffs or quotas, and with the certainty that they will be protected from unfair competition fuelled by social or environmental dumping. Our services sector has a clear and operational framework, and already benefits from significant relocations. Our European Union, in other words, is strengthened. The individual interests of each of its Member States are safeguarded by the unwavering unity that they collectively demonstrated during this trial. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] The success and conclusion of this negotiation call for two questions. The first is to know what lessons you learn, for the functioning of our Union, from this success of which you have been one of the key players. Should constant and increased transparency, permanent exchange with national parliaments, the definition of absolute and significant priorities serve as a model for future negotiations? The second question concerns the future of our bilateral relationship with the United Kingdom, which remains a major international partner and ally, particularly for our collective security and defence. What is the Government's strategy to revive this bilateral relationship that has undoubtedly suffered in recent years?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u20	The Secretary of State for European Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u21	I thank you for this issue and for your personal commitment throughout this negotiation. At the end of the year, on behalf of the European Union, we reached an agreement which I think is good from three points of view, all French and European. First of all, it defends our fundamental interests in the protection of our fishermen and the French fishery. Annick Girardin and I will still have to conduct this negotiation for the future, in order to protect our companies with fair conditions of competition, unique in a trade agreement concluded by the European Union. It will also be, as you pointed out, to protect the rights of our fellow citizens, who are more than 300,000 in the United Kingdom, where there are in total more than three million Europeans, as well as the rest that we were doing before the conclusion of this agreement at the end of December. They want to continue to live in this country, as we have guaranteed them, and we are accompanying them, together with our consular authorities, to complete these steps until 30 June. We have also preserved, and this is the second central aspect, European unity throughout this negotiation. It was not acquired: let us remember the calls or fears of infringement of the Union that we heard after the 2016 referendum. This did not happen, on the contrary: our ties have become closer. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] We have also created, and this is important for the future, an essential framework for cooperation with the United Kingdom. I draw several lessons and methods from them. Firstly, that of European cooperation under the aegis of Michel Barnier ("Ah! On the benches of the LR group), which France has supported at every moment, in order to talk to everyone and to guarantee this unity. We need to extend this method of dialogue with all our partners, to also involve European parliamentarians and national parliamentarians at every stage of the major European negotiations. Above all, we have shown with this agreement that, from a commercial point of view, for example, we can move forward to better defend our interests as consumers and producers. We will now have to complete this agreement: this is the challenge of the coming year, particularly in the area of security and defence, to ensure an essential strategic, bilateral and European relationship with the United Kingdom.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u22	Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u23	Prime Minister, the European Union serves the capital and the people. This is not new, of course, but the news gives us six times as good. Firstly, for the past two months, the Hercule project, carried out under the injunction of the European Commission, has threatened EDF with dismemberment and privatisation. Secondly, 2021 will be the year of rail for the European Commission – hear: the competition and destruction of public transport services. Thirdly, on 4 January, we learned that, despite many oppositions, negotiations for a free trade agreement between the European Union and Mercosur were continuing. Fourthly, on 4 February, a German company brought an action before a parallel arbitration tribunal under the Energy Charter Treaty to claim counterparties in the Netherlands, which passed a law to get out of coal. Fifthly, on the same day, it was reported that the European Union refused to derogate from patents on covid vaccines, preventing massive production of generics. Sixthly, on 8 February, a new scandal of tax evasion in Luxembourg broke out. Communist MEPs see this chain not as a coincidence, but as evidence that the European Union's ultraliberal political project is advancing despite the pandemic. This project involves deregulating all sectors, protecting private investors, not knowing whether they are tax evasion, privatizing public services, and signing free trade agreements, although socially and environmentally costly. People's rights pass, even when it comes to fighting for a vaccine for all against covid-19. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] You who support the same political project as the European Commission, are you aware of the damage you are causing to humans and the planet? People have had enough! When will you finally hear that Europe can only become popular by emancipating itself from the logic of profit to serve and protect people?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u24	The Secretary of State for European Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u25	Mr President, you are describing a Europe that is no longer the one we are changing and building.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u26	Not at all, it was yesterday!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u27	I invite you to change your eyes, but also, and above all, of action. Let me reply to the six examples that you have taken by taking six of me too, who will sometimes be the same and sometimes others, and who are at least looking more nuanced at the ultraliberal Europe that you have been describing for years. This is first of all the recovery plan that I mentioned earlier, with EUR 750 million, a common debt and own resources that we will pool, in particular to tax those who do not pay taxes today in Europe. Let's fight together for this. We have already reached this stage and I do not think that it is exactly the Europe of austerity that you constantly denounce.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u28	Wait for the rest!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u29	Second economic example of a response to the crisis: the independence of the European Central Bank,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u30	Answer the question!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u31	... whose risks you have constantly denounced, is precisely what allowed it to take risks to defend growth, our jobs and our companies, with more than 1000 billion euros of money injection into the economy since March. Otherwise, Europe would not be in the same situation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u32	What about Mercosur?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u33	The Treaty on the Energy Charter, which you are referring to, is still a very good example: with the position that Franck Riester, Barbara Pompili and I defend, it is France that has taken the initiative to envisage a coordinated exit if the negotiation does not evolve, in order to avoid precisely the situations that you describe. I refer you to the letter that the Minister of Ecology and I made public a few weeks ago. I repeat, this is an initiative taken by France. In terms of trade agreements, we are not at the end of the road and we are also advancing the European software with Bruno Le Maire and Franck Riester. As far as Brexit is concerned, for the first time we are verifying the conditions of fair competition and their respect. As for the agreement with Mercosur, we are opposed to it in its present form, precisely because it does not respect, in particular, the environmental and health requirements, as Julien Denormandie, Franck Riester myself said and reiterated. Vaccines are also a good example: Europe has purchased 25% of global doses. They will come and we can help countries that do not have access to them today. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Finally, digital is the exact example of European regulation: we are acting to regulate large platforms and make them pay taxes.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u34	Mr Dominique Potier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u35	Mr Minister for Foreign Affairs and Europe, France should, as has been announced, take an initiative in a few weeks to support the goal of sustainable development 8.7, in order to be a pioneering country in the alliance to end trafficking in human beings, forced labour and child labour. We can only congratulate you on that. All the operators on the ground who campaign against this scourge – 28 million foreclosures, 150 million children in the fields or at the factory instead of at school – tell us that one of the most powerful legal instruments will be the 2017 Wall Pass Law, on the duty of vigilance of parent companies and order-giving companies. Since the adoption of this law, multinationals have been obliged to implement a preventive plan and can be prosecuted in the name of their responsibility for the violation of human rights and serious violations of the environment. [[Applause on a few SOC benches]] This law, as you know, has been taught in nearly fourteen European countries, by civil society and by parliaments, and it is unexpected. The German coalition announced that, at the beginning of March, it would adopt the equivalent of French law, and that is a historic sign. The Commissioner for Justice has initiated a dialogue with the European Parliament with a view to reaching a European directive. So we are waiting for France – not just France that says, but France that does. In parallel with the European resolution we are preparing with the chairman of the Committee on European Affairs, and an assessment of the French law that has not yet taken place four years after its adoption – which is a scandal – we need active diplomacy. We expect the President of the Republic to include on the agenda of the French presence of the European Union, by 2022 at the latest, the adoption of this directive with a level of demand and ambition at least equivalent to what it is in French law. [[Applause on the SOC benches. – Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne and Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq also applaud]] Minister, we look forward to the rendezvous of history for a more humane globalization.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u36	The next speaker is the Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u37	You are asking an essential question, on which you have made a great deal of commitment with the text that has translated into legislative terms the duty of vigilance of parent companies and order-giving companies, and which has also seen some progress during the examination of the law of 22 May 2019 on the growth and transformation of enterprises, known as the PACTE law. What you have brought to the national level, it is now appropriate to bring it to the European level. As you have said, several European countries have committed themselves – Germany has just done so and France is obviously on the table, since it has already laid down in its legislation the principles that have just been adopted by the other Member States. We are now expecting from the European Commission, I think, soon to see a draft directive that should be discussed and debated from the second part of 2021. We are very vigilant about the content of this directive, which must strengthen the social and environmental responsibility of companies throughout their supply chain, including suppliers and subcontractors. This is an indispensable requirement of transparency, which we intend to see taken into account in this directive. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Mrs Cécile Untermaier, Mr Jean-Louis Bricout and Mr Dominique Potier also applaud]] Believe, in any case, that this initiative is fully in line with the human rights diplomacy of France and the European Union – I am thinking in particular of a particular situation that you have in mind: that of Xinjiang, in China, which is directly concerned, it can be said here. In any case, the timetable will be such that it will be under the French Presidency that the Council could adopt this directive and that the debate could take place in Parliament. I therefore fully confirm France's commitment in this regard.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u38	Mr Jean-Louis Bourlanges has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u39	Mr Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs, in recent weeks, the European Commission has considered it necessary, in order to ensure compliance with the vaccine supply contracts signed with Astra Zeneca, to brandish the threat of recourse to Article 16 of the Protocol on Ireland and Northern Ireland, which allows the signatories to override their commitments in order to deal with "great economic, societal or environmental difficulties". This inappropriate initiative has since given rise to public regrets by Mrs von der Leyen. However, it raised a legitimate concern at the risk of calling into question a principle of free trade on Irish territory, which had been affirmed with the aim of preserving the peace agreements on Good Friday, avoiding the economic ghettoisation of the Republic of Ireland and paving the way for the possible political reunification of the Irish nation. As was foreseeable, however, the untimely reference to this recourse to Article 16 was misused by Belfast and London to denounce both the timetable for application, the allegedly excessive rigour of the provisions, and even the principle legitimacy of the protocol. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group and on some benches of the LaREM group]] Is it not necessary, however, at a time when the dust of the tumult of recent weeks has fallen, to recall the determination of the European Union and France to hold together the two ends of the chain, namely, the scrupulous respect for the economic and commercial unity of Ireland's territory and, on the other hand, the validity of a protocol designed to prevent the creation of a wide area of non-control, therefore of non-rights, in the trade of goods between the European Union and its former partner? The episodes that we have just experienced cannot justify a renunciation of the commitments made.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u40	The next speaker is the Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u41	It is true that in January the Commission announced the establishment of a mechanism to control the export of the vaccine, which could have led to the reconstitution of a customs barrier between Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland. This was a mistake, and the European Commission immediately explained itself by the voice of its President, who officially regretted this decision. His immediate response was particularly welcome: it was imperative to dispel the concerns that might have arisen, especially since the British Government sought to exploit this error in an attempt to undermine the proper application of the Protocol on Ireland and Northern Ireland. This instrumentalization was unjustified and unacceptable. In our view, the episode is now closed, and all our efforts must now seek to ensure the effective implementation of the Protocol on Ireland and Northern Ireland, which has been reached in the framework of the withdrawal agreement between the United Kingdom and the European Union, and which must be respected for two reasons: firstly, by avoiding the restoration of a border between Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland, the Protocol guarantees the peace agreements on Good Friday, to which you have referred. We must be particularly vigilant on this point. In addition, the Protocol lays down detailed rules on customs and health controls of goods from a third country entering the Union, which ensure that the integrity of the single market is preserved. The protocol is therefore based on a fundamental balance. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] In the name of France's historical ties with Ireland and its European commitment, Clément Beaune and I are determined to ensure full respect for the protocol, which guarantees both the peace and the integrity of the European project. You can count on us.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u42	Mr Paul-André Colombani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u43	Minister for National Education, the protection and promotion of regional and minority languages is an old concern of the European institutions. They see the defence of these languages as a strengthening of the democracy, diversity and cultural wealth of the peoples and countries that make up it. Indeed, regional languages and cultures, which we defend, are the foundation of our identity. It is in this spirit that the European Charter for Regional or Minority Languages, designed to protect and promote these languages, was adopted in 1992 as a threat to Europe's cultural heritage. Signed by France, this charter has still not been ratified. 1992, it was also the year in which it was included in article 2 of the Constitution that French was the official language of the Republic. In theory, this inscription was intended to combat the growing hegemony of English; In practice, it has been used only to insidiously combat regional languages which have since been repeatedly attacked – as in article 6 of the draft law, which reinforces the principles of the Republic, which threatens associations for the promotion of regional languages. After the reform of the baccalaureate last year, the reform of the Corsican language CAPES, on 25 January, is therefore a new blow to call into question all the educational systems dedicated to regional languages. Indeed, carried out without consultation with the University of Corsica and the political and trade union players who oppose it, this reform requires a reversal of the coefficients of the disciplinary tests, thus reducing the Corsican share in the tests. The decree therefore signifies the lowering of the level of mastery of the Corsican language and demonstrates a strategy of weakening the teaching of regional languages. [[Applause on the benches of the LT group. – Marc Le Fur also applauds]] Minister, when will you ratify the Charter for Regional or Minority Languages, and how will this deleterious process end for our regional languages?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u44	The next speaker is the Minister for National Education, Youth and Sport.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u45	It is a pity to put the situation in these terms, because the Government obviously has nothing against regional languages: on the contrary, in the course of the discussions of Mr. Paul Molac's bill on the heritage protection of regional languages and their promotion, we have recently again worked on these issues and deepened the possible progress, in accordance with the Constitution. The reform of the high school is the first element for the promotion of regional languages, since it has offered the possibility to follow four hours of regional language at first, and six at the senior level, within the framework of the specialisation courses of the high schools which propose it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u46	It's historical!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u47	This did not previously exist, and it is an opportunity for the development of regional languages, as evidenced by the situation in several regions. In Corsica, since this is your territory, we have observed an increase in the number of pupils choosing to study the Corsican language: they are 22583 this year – I have the numbers in front of me. There is therefore not a policy against regional languages, but in favour of regional languages. In addition, 514 professors hold a regional language CAPES, and an aggregation section dedicated to the languages of France was even opened to national education in 2018,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u48	History!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u49	... which allowed seven professors to be combined as early as 2019. 170,000 students have learned regional languages, and we are committed to advancing this figure. In addition, as part of the reform of the high school, a higher coefficient has been assigned for LVB – living language B – i.e. the second language, and LVC, i.e. the third language, when they are studied as part of an option.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u50	History!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u51	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] On the other hand, we cannot ignore the fact that demand for regional language learning is sometimes declining. In the space of two generations, things have actually reversed: in the past, the regional language was spoken with the family and forbidden at school: today it is taught in school but it is difficult to practice within the family. It is this logic that we must reverse if we are to succeed in creating a stronger demand: together we can achieve it. Be assured that we are in favour of regional languages.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u52	Mr Christophe Naegelen has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u53	The United Kingdom has decided to leave the European Union. If one can only deplore this decision, because it is obvious that we are stronger together, it can – and must – also be seen as an opportunity to improve the attractiveness of the Paris financial centre, which is now being distanced by Frankfurt and Amsterdam due to a more restrictive taxation than our neighbours.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u54	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u55	It is also an opportunity to work towards the harmonisation of all European financial centres and their financial transactions: London, a singer of deregulation, being a party, we must not only harmonise our rules, but also increase the tax on financial transactions, in order to make Europe a more united Union. The revenue from this tax could be directed towards health research and development within the European Union, or even directly towards a European premium for healthcare workers in the Member States, in recognition of their commitment. As all the stock exchanges in the world fly away, let us choose solidarity, so that as many as possible can benefit from it. [[Applause on the benches of the IDU-I group]] Deputy Minister for Public Accounts, it is imperative to work at the tax attractiveness of France, in order to attract companies to create jobs. What do you intend to do about it? What is your vision of the necessary creation of a common European tax on financial transactions? Given that financial issues are not addressed in the Brexit agreement, could future negotiations with the British allow them to block the introduction of such a tax?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u56	The next speaker is the Minister for Public Accounts.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u57	You first indicated that the tax framework was an element of economic attractiveness, particularly for the financial centre: it is a shared observation. For four years now, we have done a great deal of work in this area: we have changed the system of impoverished people, allowed the introduction of an opt-out system for social contributions, reformed the taxation of wealth. We have also embarked on a downward trajectory of production taxes and corporate tax, a trajectory that we hold despite the difficulties associated with the economic crisis. We believe that this is indeed a policy of attractiveness: proof of this is that before the crisis, France had become the first country in Europe in terms of foreign investment and that in recent months we have seen movements in the relocation of financial services in favour of the Place de Paris. You have also rightly stressed the need to work on a European tax on financial transactions. In this respect, France is one of the countries that acts more than they speak, since it has itself introduced this tax since 2012 which it has promoted for years on a European scale. Your question also gives me the opportunity to point out that in 2020, the tax on financial transactions broke records: it allowed the French State to collect 1,785 billion euros in revenue, an increase of 340 million compared to the previous year. This is yet another proof of the attractiveness and development of Paris' financial centre.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u58	History!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u59	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] We are defending this initiative on the European scene, and the exit of the United Kingdom from the Union will not change the conditions of the negotiations, as it was not involved in the discussions on the creation of this tax. Therefore, he will not be able to block it or accompany it. In 2018, under the so-called Meseberg agreements, we chose, together with Germany, to work towards enhanced cooperation, with the desire to reach a conclusion on this subject. Let us bear in mind that the Union's own resources will also come from the adjustment mechanisms and the digital services tax.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u60	Mrs Marine Brenier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u61	Minister of Solidarity and Health, 2020 will have been, throughout the world, that of the bitter discovery of covid-19; 2021 will be that of the variants. So it is no longer against a single epidemic that we must fight, but at least two! [[Protests on a few benches of the LaREM group]] [["Yes! » and applause on the benches of the LR group]] Yet, nothing really seems to be up to the stakes, especially because of a lack of anticipation. For the past month, the Alpes-Maritimes – France's most affected department – have been under your hesitancy and procrastination for the rest of the country. For fear of imminent containment, the French do not consume, the merchants no longer dare to renew their stocks and the parents retain their breath at each of your interventions. Consider, for example, countries where the epidemic is receding: large-scale vaccination campaigns, local reconfinations, trial treatments, daily mass tests. A new battle begins: beyond the known contact cases, we must give ourselves the means to test every day, everywhere, to trace the entire chain of contagion and finally break it. To succeed in curbing the spread of new, very contagious variants,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u62	She's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u63	...we need to accelerate the deployment of salivary tests, beyond schools and universities. Why not allow self-tests, more than 86% reliable and already used in some countries, as asked by the president of the Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur region, Renaud Muselier? The vaccination of persons over the age of seventy-five was scheduled to end at the end of March. At present, it is difficult to imagine that the entire population will be vaccinated by September. Why is Europe slow to allow vaccines that have already proved their worth elsewhere? [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] In the most affected territories, hospital management requires more flexibility in the management of beds: the creation of intermediate beds, under intensive care but welcoming patients who do not need to be resuscitated, would allow us to accommodate more patients. Let's make city medicine a real partner in the care of patients: this will be the case for vaccination, it is good, but we also have to train caregivers at home in order to follow patients who need to be placed under oxygen, but who can stay at home. [[Same movements]] Too many sacrifices have already been made by our fellow citizens, Minister: it is urgent to act!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u64	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u65	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] You will see that we agree on many things. However, on one point in particular, I do not agree with you: you announce that 2021 will be the year of variants; I hope, for my part, that it will be the victory against the pandemic, and that both the French and the rest of the world will be able to regain this joy of life and the daily life that they miss so much. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Like several European neighbours, you have to test massively, you said: with 2.3 million tests carried out each week, France remains, month after month, one of the three most tested European countries. You have to deploy massively the salivary tests, you added: you are right, and France is the first European country to be able to deploy 200000 to 300,000 salivary tests per week.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u66	Join us, Veran!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u67	At present, no other European country is able to do so! With regard to the salivary self-tests, which you have mentioned, I will repeat to you what I have already replied several times to Mr Renaud Muselier: it would be great for them to work and be validated, but to date neither the World Health Organisation – WHO – nor the European Medicines Agency, nor the High Health Authority, nor the National Agency for the Safety of Medicines and Health Products in France have unfortunately identified any self-test whose sensitivity exceeds 40%! We are working in connection with Japan, which is the only country to use self-tests, but they do not yet have a comprehensive return. England also uses these tests, but is minimal in view of the difficulties that arise in their sensitivity. Believe me, the day we have self-tests at home, the deal will change – on this point, I'll join you. You have also mentioned vaccines that would be effective elsewhere: I do not know which vaccines you are talking about, I can simply say that the only vaccines used in France are those authorised by Europe, for the simple and good reason that the laboratories that produce them have asked for proper authorisation: they have provided scientific data to enable us to evaluate these vaccines, to be sure that they are safe and effective. This is not the case for Russian and Chinese vaccines at the moment, and I think I regret it. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Finally, you are right, more patients have been treated in home or outpatient hospitalization since the second wave: caregivers have managed to control the use of hospitalization, and we will continue to move forward.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u68	Mr Christophe Arend has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u69	I would like to associate all my colleagues in the majority with my question, which is addressed to the Minister for Solidarity and Health.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u70	You forgot one!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u71	Faced with the atypical situation of the health crisis in the Moselle department, you came last Friday to see the state of affairs. You have opened up the dialogue with local elected officials, in order to reflect on the solutions that could be considered. We wanted to thank you for being personally involved, so quickly. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] You have heard our requests regarding, among other things, the acceleration of the testing and vaccination campaign. You promised the delivery of an additional 30,000 doses of Pfizer vaccine and kept the screening and vaccination centres open on weekends. You have also strengthened the measures for tracing contact cases, and isolation. We would like to express our deep appreciation to all staff, both caregivers and non-careers, who have spontaneously mobilized to deploy this device immediately. The situation remains worrisome and our issues are multiple. How can we explain the large presence of Brazilian and South African variants in our department? Do you have the results of the first analyses carried out by the firemen of Marseilles, sent on site? Can you provide us with further information on the incidence of school-based variant cases? Are the health protocols that have been in place for many weeks sufficient to ensure the safety of students and teachers? [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Finally, our concerns also concern relations with our German and Luxembourg neighbours. Cross-border living pools should not be considered differently from other national territories because an artificial line, drawn on a map, crosses them. Can you reassure us on this point and tell us how France, Germany and Luxembourg are working together and coordinating to manage, together, the health crisis, in particular as regards the interoperability of tracing systems and common test strategies.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u72	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u73	To begin with, I thank you for the welcome extended to me by all the elected representatives of the Moselle, in a difficult context, filled with a lot of emotion after the announcement of the circulation of the variants. I want to stress the spirit of responsibility that has prevailed throughout the day and the weekend, and to welcome, as you have done, the exploit of all the health actors who have managed, in one weekend, not only to keep almost all the centres open, but also to vaccinate two thousand additional people compared to what had been planned, thanks to an exceptional state allocation of Pfizer vaccines, at the request in particular of the Members of the majority – I see Mr Ludovic Mendes on your benches.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u74	It's because of Di Filippo! He ordered them, he got them!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u75	We have decided to grant an additional 30,000 doses of Pfizer vaccines, considering that in Moselle – the only place in the national territory where we observe this phenomenon – more than a third of the cases of people infected are caused by variants, of clearly South African origin. How did they appear and why do they travel in Moselle, in this small band of horizontal territory that covers the north of Moselle and Meurthe-et-Moselle? It is difficult to know, but, most importantly, I was able to see on the spot that the teams of the regional health agency, the ARS, and health insurance, which provide contact tracing, effectively manage the chains of contamination and that the situation has remained under control. For this reason, no additional containment measures were proposed. Marseille firemen are actually deployed on the territory. I do not yet have the results of their analyses, but that will come. With regard to schools, more than eighty classes are closed in the metropolis of Metz, Thionville and Nancy...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u76	Nancy's not in Moselle!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u77	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] ...in Metz-Thionville, I'm sorry, I'm not gonna confuse Nancy and Metz. You also mentioned the mobilization of caregivers, absolutely exemplary throughout the country. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Finally, I spoke yesterday with the German Minister of Health, Jens Spahn, and our Luxembourg counterpart, Paulette Lenert, to whom I gave every guarantee of our intention to fight effectively against the spread of variants. I hope that the framework for a well-functioning European cooperation, thanks in particular to Clement Beaune, can continue and that borders will remain open in good conditions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u78	Mrs Gisèle Biémouret has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u79	My question is for the Minister of Solidarity and Health. "The hospital never let me be by his side, even shortly before his death. "; "we saw its degradation behind a digital tablet"; "he left alone." These are the words of the families of the 82000 dead of the Covid-19, of the nearly 400 deaths we suffer every day, anesthetized that we are by the litany of the number. [[Applause on a few SOC benches]] We have read these chilling testimonies here and there throughout the last few months as a fatality in the face of the pandemic's directives. Each hospital has its own family visit policy, while the SRAs do not impose any protocol. Of course, some hospitals are doing their utmost and we must acknowledge the dedication of all caregivers, who are doing their best to alleviate the suffering of families. But for months they have been subjected to the brutality of their loved ones' departures, which lead to inconsolable psychological suffering. It took a girl's words to her father, a little more publicized than others, to declare that visits to the hospital had to be allowed – and are, except for anomalies – in all situations, according to health protocols. But that's not the case! Minister, the Government has decided to let us live with the virus. All right! Living with it means taking the risk of meeting him every day at work, in transportation, at school, at the supermarket. To live with it is also to have the right to take a risk to accompany your loved ones to the end and not to let them go into this total dehumanization created by the pandemic, not to be confined to an Excel vision of life. [[Applause on the SOC benches and on a few benches of the LaREM group]] While Jean-Paul Sartre said, "Every word has a resounding effect. Every silence, too. My question is simple: do you intend to give binding national guidelines to allow the presence of families in all institutions? It should be done, if only by humanity.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u80	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u81	Jolitorax is back!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u82	There may be several local protocols, depending on the institution, but there is only one way to treat each situation humanely, each family and each patient. There is no need for national guidelines for health care teams, physicians, nurses, school principals to do everything possible to ensure that a sick person can be in contact with his or her family.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u83	It's necessary!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u84	There is no need for protocol, I said, but this protocol exists. It is clear that families have the right to visit sick persons in humane conditions. We lifted very quickly, last spring, the constraints that had originally been introduced because of the unknowns regarding the spread of the virus: what happens after death? What happens during death care? – I'm sorry to go into this kind of detail, but it's a reality. It is obvious that, whatever the situation, the healthcare team will always have to focus on maintaining this valuable contact. However, some situations may present difficulties. I have sometimes called a hospital to find out the reason for such problems, not as a result of this particular testimony: it happened, for example, that a person infected with the covid-19 wanted to visit a patient in his or her surroundings. Sometimes the right response must be determined, in conjunction with the institution. Every time I'm alerted to situations that seem to lack humanity, I call the teams. In the end, unless we consider that health-care teams made up of dozens of people, who have the vocation to the body and who work morning, night and night to treat people with humanity, unless we consider, I said, that a whole team is deficient, we can also grant the benefit of the doubt and say that, sometimes, there are very specific situations. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I tell you again, the Government's will is to allow families access to sick people, regardless of their condition, and even more so if they are at the end of their lives. Thank you for letting me call him back.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u85	Mrs Emmanuelle Anthoine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u86	The Minister of Solidarity and Health, after the glaring lack of protective masks which led the Government to question their effectiveness, after the shortcomings in the tracing of contact cases, after the failure of the screening strategy and the slow rise in the capacity for PCR tests, after the pushy take-off of the vaccination campaign, after the waiting lists of people over 75 years of age wishing to be vaccinated – lists that continue to grow longer – here is the new episode of the saga of the Government's anticipation defects: the shortage of sequencing kits for the SARS-CoV-2 virus genome. The national reference centres responsible for this sequencing are faced with problems of supply of chemical materials and reagents. Sequencing is vital, however, in that it allows you to track the circulation of variants of the virus. Professionals have been alerting for months to the need to place orders to avoid shortages: the situation is such that the needs for monitoring the epidemic are likely to compete with the sequencing needs for oncological care. Once again, France is late. On 1 February, the United Kingdom shared 195000 sequences, Denmark more than 34000 and France 4300 only, behind Germany, Spain and the Netherlands, among others.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u87	Véran, you suck!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u88	But if we could benefit from such capacity to sequence the virus, we could follow, as closely as possible, the circulation of variants, especially in Moselle, to prevent the situation from escaping us...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u89	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u90	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] In other words, the efficacy of vaccines and the immunity of people already infected could be called into question, thus repelling the prospects for an end to the crisis. The French can't help this crisis! So, Minister, will the Government finally make the necessary efforts to track the circulation of variants in France?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u91	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u92	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Your numbers are wrong, MP, and I think it's important to re-establish the truth. You say that France has achieved only 4000 sequencings, while we are more than 5000 a week! France is the only European country to screen more than 80% of PCR tests.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u93	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u94	Germany sequencing a given day every two weeks, while we screen 80% of PCR tests every day! We are the only country to be able to establish, in absolute terms, the number of variants per territory. That's how I went to Moselle, because this technology allowed us to demonstrate that the variants were progressing and to determine the precise number of positive patients. So your numbers are wrong. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] When you say that France is lagging behind in vaccination, let me give you three figures: first of all, France is, to date, the European country, with the exception of England, which has achieved the most primary vaccinations in proportion to its population, in front of Germany, Spain and Italy.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u95	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u96	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Second, 72% of elderly people residing in EHPAD were at least first-time vaccinated and a large part of them are even fully vaccinated, making France the only European country to obtain such coverage for the most vulnerable. Finally, the average age of persons vaccinated in our country is 67 years; It is 60 years old in Germany, 55 years old, I believe, in Spain and it is still lower in Italy. We have chosen to target the most vulnerable elderly people and, frankly, I have no regrets. On the other hand, you are talking about a real fundamental problem: the global shortage of polypropylene, this plastic structure that the entire planet is looking for to produce small cones essential for PCR tests. We have two weeks of stock in the public sector, two months in the private sector. The Directorate-General for Enterprise, the DGE, has been mobilised for weeks to launch production, in 3D printing, within French companies and to place orders abroad of these precious cones that we actually need.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u97	Where are they?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u98	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] We are also making a reasoned use of it in biology, in order to maintain our sequencing capabilities. This is a collective challenge, which we will take up!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u99	Mrs Coralie Dubost has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u100	Almost a year ago, they responded to the call, stopped everything, agreed to change their daily lives to resist, together. Without them, we could not have contained the epidemic. I want to talk about the millions of French workers who have agreed to give up their daily lives to enable caregivers to save lives. These resistors have restraint, determination and humility as their weapon. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Whatever the cost, announced by the President of the Republic, is this: saving lives, protecting the most fragile and, at the same time, protecting employment; because protecting employment means protecting the red line of social life from those who accept, out of solidarity, out of nation spirit and out of humanism, to withdraw, to let the first lines act. We can all, almost a year later, greet him. The French honoured their share of the challenge; They have, in their vast majority, held. Well done and thank you to them! If they have been able to carry out this act of collective responsibility in confidence, it is because we have guaranteed them the means to do so. Madam Minister for Labour, Employment and Inclusion, our requirement is to respond to all situations, particularly the most precarious, the most at risk. We do not wish to leave anyone at the side of the road; We want to respond to all workers, seasonal workers, event workers, youth, seniors, and allow everyone to continue to realize this "holding together." Because employment is not only a daily activity, but also an anchor that places us in society, in our personal history, a vector of emancipation and all possible, a vector of the future. We have a duty to support the professional lives of the French. In addition to taking care of partial unemployment, what arrangements do you plan to continue to protect French jobs and employees?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u101	The Minister for Labour, Employment and Integration has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u102	Given the uncertainties associated with the crisis, we have indeed decided to extend the massive aid introduced to protect companies and employees. First of all, since the beginning of the crisis, we have preserved the jobs of millions of employees thanks to the partial activity scheme: we have resolved to continue this effort by maintaining the current rates until the end of March, i.e. 100% coverage for fully or partially closed enterprises and protected sectors, and 15% for other sectors. In the same spirit, yesterday I announced the extension until the end of May of the exceptional aid to provide precarious workers with a minimum income of 900 euros per month. We accompany all those who, before the crisis, were alternating short contracts or seasonal contracts and periods of unemployment, and who were unable to work in 2020: more than 400,000 jobseekers benefited from this scheme in November and December. In addition, the Government has decided to entrust your colleague Jean François Mbaye and Senator Xavier Iacovelli with a mission to better regulate short contracts, the limits of which we see today. Finally, with the rise of the "one young person, one solution" plan, we act massively in favour of the employment and training of young people. In 2021, we will mobilize more than 2 million solutions for them: integration pathways, apprenticeship contracts or qualifying training. In order to continue to support youth employment, we announced the extension of employment assistance and the apprenticeship bonus, again until the end of March. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group, as well as on several benches of the Dem group]] You see it: we are fully mobilized alongside employees, especially the most vulnerable, as well as our youth, to overcome the crisis.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u103	Mrs Jeanine Dubie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u104	My question is for the Prime Minister, and I associate the other members of the Assembly's study group on thermalism. The economic situation of our 113 thermal plants is catastrophic. Their prolonged closure in 2020, where they operated only four months, from July to October, led to a decrease in their activity by almost 70%. Two of them filed the balance sheet; A dozen others are about to initiate a safeguard procedure. Therefore, to ensure the survival of this sector, it is important that thermal plants, regardless of their management, benefit from the fixed costs compensation fund, under the closure of 2020, or from a similar arrangement, otherwise they will no longer be able to reopen when you allow them to do so. The prospects are even more alarming for establishments run under government control, which cannot benefit from a state-guaranteed loan or from a payment of the solidarity fund. The sector is dying, and its 100,000 non-relocating jobs, so important for the vitality of our territories, are at risk. Of course, we note the creation in 2021 of a fixed-cost compensation fund, but this measure only provides private managers with an early response and will not compensate for the 110 million financial losses accumulated in 2020. In order to ensure the survival of this sector, it is therefore essential that these establishments, regardless of their management, benefit from the fixed costs. Prime Minister, thermal medicine is useful for treatment, prevention of chronic diseases, and has all the advantages to contribute to the care of patients with long covids.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u105	Please close.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u106	[[Applause on the benches of the LT group]] My question is simple: does the Government intend to offset the fixed costs of thermal facilities in 2020, and more generally to provide specific support to the thermal industry?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u107	The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Tourism, the French from abroad and the French-speaking world.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u108	Mrs Dubie, you are president of ANEM, the National Association of Elected Mountainers: together with you, with the other members of the study group that you mentioned and its president Jean-Bernard Sempastous, with all the elected representatives of the territories concerned, we have been working since the beginning of the crisis to fill a number of "holes in the snowshoe", according to the expression consecrated by the Prime Minister. With regard to thermalism, our strategy is to repair and prepare. First of all, with aid adjusted as time goes on: through the State-guaranteed loans, the partial activity scheme, extended in a second phase to the regulated institutions, we now have EUR 75 million in support of the sector. In relation to the Ministry of Economy, Finance and Recovery, we will continue to be attentive, pragmatic, creative in order to be able to provide all the right answers. Then, prepare very seriously for the recovery, as the CNETh – National Council of Thermal Establishments – does by developing protocols. Beyond the recovery, we must even foresee the rebound: within the framework of the tourism plan, 300 million will be used to accompany a number of sectors, including thermalism. In addition, the Prime Minister instructed the president of the Puy-de-Dôme department council, Jean-Yves Gouttebel, to work with the sector in the future. We will, of course, remain very mobilized to design and implement these measures with you, as blue-white-red thermalism, with 600,000 curists and 10 million nights per year, is the third in Europe. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] It flows from the source, if I may say so, but it goes better by saying it: with you, I repeat, we will continue to support it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u109	Mr Arnaud Viala has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u110	For more than a year since the health crisis, Prime Minister, food has become the main concern of the French, either that they no longer have anything to eat or that they should be more vigilant about the content of their plates. Faced with the challenge of quality and quantity, our farmers have done everything to feed us. In the markets, in our stores, nothing has ever been lacking. However, the profession has never stressed so much the pitfalls of the so-called "EGALIM" law of 30 October 2018, especially in terms of pricing: the account is not there. Incomprehension rumbles when, while calling for local consumption, you reopen the international files of Mercosur – Common Market of the South – and CETA – Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement. Finally, there are enormous concerns about the decisive stages in the negotiation of the future CAP – the common agricultural policy – which is taking place right now. It is on this subject that I wish to question you. On the one hand, the trademark of our agriculture is human-sized farms, which require labour, but continue everywhere, including in mountain areas. For its operations, it is essential to maintain the current amount of the ICHN – compensation for natural handicaps – and its award criteria: Prime Minister, do you commit to it? [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] On the other hand, our farmers have never been so worried, so prone to the vagaries of prices, about consumers disturbed by ideologically biased messages. For livestock farming, coupled aids are fundamental, and their essential level in safeguarding the channels of excellence in our territories. What is your position on this subject that some are seeking to upset?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u111	The next speaker is the Minister for Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u112	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group, as well as on several benches of the LR, Dem and IUD-I groups]] By way of introduction, I would like to associate myself with your remarks concerning the fact that, since the beginning of the crisis, no product has ever been missed on our stalls, thanks to the women and men who are our farmers. First, I would like to take this opportunity to point out that, with regard to the application of the EGALIM law, we are multiplying the controls, in connection with the DGCCRF – Directorate-General for Competition, Consumer Affairs and Fraud Prevention – because a commercial relationship is a balance of power; In this balance of power, the DGCCRF is the tool of the state.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u113	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u114	Secondly, as the Secretary of State said earlier, our position on an agreement with Mercosur is no longer clear: it is no! Thirdly, with regard to the CAP, it was necessary first of all to negotiate its budget: the involvement of the President of the Republic made it possible for it to be significant. There was then a need for a political framework:...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u115	The CETA!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u116	And Canadian beef fed with animal meal!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u117	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] ...it is this framework that we have negotiated at the level of agriculture ministers, in order to achieve a convergence of ministries across the European Union. Finally, the vision comes in: your questions are at this level. We consider the CAP to be at the service of food sovereignty, to which our farmers contribute. In the coming months, we will consult with all stakeholders; As soon as one of the indicators to which you referred is changed, all the others are affected. We must find the right balance, which I repeat, we will do with sovereignty for vision and coordination for method.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u118	What about CETA?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u119	Mr Arnaud Viala has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u120	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Minister, we are now awaiting the start of the process of evaluating the EGALIM Act, as it is necessary to take stock of its effects. As for the CAP, I understand its overall volume, but your answers need to be clarified. Farmers – I am thinking particularly of those in mountain areas – need signals from you regarding the maintenance of the perimeters and levels of ICHN and coupled aids. They are organizing themselves to tell you: in Aveyron, they will do it tomorrow, on the viaduct of Millau. They need clear answers!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u121	Mrs Sabine Thillaye has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u122	My question is to the Secretary of State for European Affairs. On 1 January, France will take over the presidency of the Council of the European Union under the motto "Relaunch, power, membership". Recovery: The 750 billion of the recovery plan will allow a qualitative leap towards the future; remains to give substance to this one. Power: it is indispensable. Unlike the beginnings of European integration, where internal differences were to be resolved, the challenges we face today lie in the relationship between Europe and the rest of the world: climate change, migration, terrorism, digitalism and globalisation. Yet power Europe is built before our eyes when we overcome Brexit, when we no longer tolerate the rule of law being undermined by certain members, when interparliamentarism becomes the voice of our major projects, when we become aware of our economic weight vis-à-vis China, Africa and the United States. Europe's power is also the adaptation of actors around the world to European standards in line with our legislation, notably the GDPR, the general data protection regulation. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group]] Membership: this is one of the challenges facing the European Union. The fact that we belong to this community, both in terms of values and institutions, can enable us to carry out our projects successfully; but there is no magic wand to achieve it, and the path will be long. Mr Secretary of State, just as we Europeans have decided to respond together to the challenges of the crisis, how can we affirm this sense of belonging? What common cultural project can we carry out? How can France, like other Member States, mobilise its media on this subject?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u123	Very good question!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u124	The Secretary of State for European Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u125	I thank you for mentioning this important moment that we will live together: in the first half of 2022, France will preside over the Council of the European Union, which had not happened for almost 15 years and will not happen again until 2035. In November, Jean-Yves Le Drian and I presented to the Council of Ministers a few lines of work, around the three key words that you mentioned: recovery, power, belonging. All the political forces that must be gathered for this event, we will have the opportunity to clarify the agenda and priorities of this presidency. In the coming weeks, we will set up a trans-party committee to this end, which will represent all the groups of the National Assembly and the Senate, the French MEPs and the associations of elected representatives. However, I can give you some thought. With regard to the issues of recovery and power, which you will allow me to deal with as a whole, because they are better identified, we will give priority to the economic rearmament of Europe, whether it is digital, the reform of competition policy or trade policy – we were talking about trade agreements a moment ago – or our budgetary rules, which we will probably have to rethink at the end of the crisis. It will also be an opportunity to accelerate the ecological transition, which is part of the European power; We're thinking about it with Barbara Pompili. The protection of our borders and the reform of the Schengen area are also certain elements of power. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Since you invited me to do so, I will add a few words about the issue of belonging, perhaps less often. In connection with Roselyne Bachelot, we are defining a European cultural policy, which we wish to make progress with this presidency. We need to think about symbols, such as those faces that I hope will appear on euro banknotes. With Frédéric Vidal, we also defend the resumption of Erasmus or the mobility of teachers. Finally, we will strengthen a certain cultural model: I am thinking of copyright reform, or what we will do in the coming months, with Roselyne Bachelot, with regard to the digital single market.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u126	Mrs Marianne Dubois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u127	Prime Minister, any crisis highlights the evils of a society. Today, I would like to relay the alarm cry of professionals in the voluntary sector for help, accompaniment and home care. You have announced that keeping our seniors at home is your priority – a good goal, to which 80% of the French are in favour. However, this ambition should be accompanied by means, in particular the need to upgrade the home-help trades, whose average net wage is now 970 euros per month. These professions are no longer attractive and our associations must now reduce their services, when they are not forced to refuse new requests for accompaniment. The funding granted to cover needs and to accompany developments in services has long been insufficient to cover the costs of the structures. Their sustainability is even threatened, as needs continue to grow. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] These professionals have been the great forgotten of Ségur de la santé. Promised by the President of the Republic in 2019, the law on old age and autonomy that was to solve everything is again rejected, despite the challenges. At the same time, these professionals hear government announcements referring to the tens of billions of euros invested in the economic recovery plan. The economy is not limited to the production of manufacturing products. The social economy, especially through women and men who support it on a daily basis, also requires our attention and investment. What answer do you intend to do to make a profession essential to the "ageing well" of our seniors again attractive, without, however, postponing this burden on the departments again?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u128	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u129	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u130	Thank you for your question, Member. It highlights the commitment of the Government, in particular Brigitte Bourguignon,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u131	She's in the legislative campaign!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u132	...Associate Minister for Autonomy, on the issue of ambulatory care, particularly in the medical and social sector. As you know, this summer we signed a historic majority agreement with the trade union organizations, providing for the revalorisation of the salaries of more than 1.5 million caregivers in the hospital world, from all sectors: public, private non-profit and lucrative. The medical and social sector was not left behind; We had committed ourselves to a re-visit clause and the Prime Minister had entrusted Mr Laforcade with a mission bringing together all the stakeholders in order to change wages in this sector as well. On February 11, with Brigitte Bourguignon, we signed an agreement to extend the Ségur to 18,000 new beneficiaries: 83 million euros will be dedicated to the medical-social sector, for all employees working in a social or medical-social establishment or service attached to a public health institution or to an EHPAD of the hospital public service. Mr. Laforcade's mission continues. There will therefore be other good news in the coming months, but, in concrete terms, from 1 June, all these employees will receive 183 euros net more per month, which is a considerable wage gain. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Your question, Madam Member, also highlights the urgent need to deal also with the case of home helpers, whose considerable work we know is valuable to our society. I would remind you that in the discussion on the last social security budget, an amendment was adopted – including by you, I believe – which increases the contribution of the autonomous branch by EUR 200 million to complete the upgrading. I would remind you that we had already increased the index point for home helpers. If the remuneration is the responsibility of the departments, it is the health insurance which will finance the relavorisations through the index point, so that the families do not have to pay any leftovers. The Government intends to continue to advance and make home support occupations even more attractive.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u133	Mrs Marianne Dubois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u134	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] I hear your answer, minister, but these professionals are on the front line. They fight every day to continue to provide their services to the most vulnerable, in a very degraded health environment. They are waiting for action, not speech.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u135	Mrs Claudia Rouaux has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u136	My question is to the Minister responsible for housing. Nearly two out of five recipients of personalized housing assistance – APL – now live below the poverty line. Without calling into question the reform of the real-time calculation of the LPA which entered into force on 1 January, it must be noted that it has an immediate consequence. According to the first national analyses carried out by the Agricultural Social Mutuality, the APL amount of 45 per cent of the beneficiaries will decrease. Of all the revised files, the overall amount is down 10.3 per cent. This creates anger and incomprehension for the beneficiaries concerned. Why the anger? The reason is simple: rents are expensive and wages are low. In a region such as Brittany where many jobs belong to the agri-food sector, it is not uncommon for the rest to live for workers' families to be less than 50 euros a week, when all incompressible expenses are paid. The question of purchasing power was one of the first demands of the yellow vest movement. However, the income threshold for LPA benefits is too high. For example, a pensioner receiving a pension of €950 per month and paying a rent of €550 will receive €92 from APL. A young asset receiving a salary of 1100 euros and paying a rent of 450 euros will have 73 euros. However, it is estimated that this reform will allow the state to save 700 million euros in 2021. [[Applause on the SOC and GDR benches]] While the economic crisis is turning thousands of people into precarious people, is it conceivable for the state to make budgetary savings on social aid? In order to combat inequalities, does the Government intend to increase the amount of aid and redistribute it to the most modest households by relaxing eligibility criteria and scales? Beyond the emergency, does he intend to strengthen the resources allocated to social housing, which is essential to alleviating the shock of the crisis?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u137	The next speaker is the Minister for Public Accounts.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u138	A former socialist!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u139	Mrs Rouaux, you have asked the Government about the contemporaneization of the APLs, taking care to clarify – and thank you – that you do not question contemporary methods of calculation. You're right. First of all, because with contemporaneization – forgiveness for barbarism – we have not changed any rights: we have not changed the rules of access to rights, nor the scales, nor the criteria of calculation. Secondly, with the contemporary calculation of the entitlement to the LPA, in January and on the occasion of the first payment of February 5 and 6, 200000 French households which did not receive the LPA became beneficiaries...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u140	We have to redistribute the 700 million savings!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u141	... because we took into account the revenues of the last three months rather than the revenues of two years ago, which was the case before.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u142	And how many lost?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u143	This reform is fair because it allows for the calculation of LPA entitlements based on the most current income and not two years late. You know, like me, that this calculation often led families in precarious circumstances to receive undue payments or too much money – too much paid, forgiveness –...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u144	It's your budget that's broken!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u145	..., which had to be paid back, a few months later, when their situation was not necessarily good. As far as students are concerned, we have paid the utmost attention to their situation. I repeat that there has been no change in criteria. Some have seen the evolution of their LPOs, especially if they have reached the age of 28 between the last and the new calculation, or if they have had access to income, e.g. from work. I will give you two more answers to your concern. First, we are in the process of settling and securing the situation of students who have a professionalization contract, so that they will receive the same treatment as apprentices and trainees, with a franchise at the level of the SMIC aimed at neutralizing any reform effect. Secondly, for students who have become active young people who are no longer eligible for the LPA because they are now receiving a salary, we carried out with Emmanuelle Wargon redeployments of Housing Action credits in order to be able to offer the installation aid for young active people that was presented yesterday. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group. – Mrs Maud Petit also applauds]] If the President allows me, I would like to add a final point on social housing: the Prime Minister announced a little more than fifteen days ago the allocation of €3.3 billion for priority neighbourhoods of city policy and social housing policy, including 2 billion dedicated to the ANRU – National Agency for Urban Renewal.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u146	Mrs Claudia Rouaux has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u147	Thank you, Minister Delegate, but you did not answer my question...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u148	Once again!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u149	[[Applause on the SOC benches]] What are you going to do with the 700 million euros? Remember that even while working, some people don't even have 50 euros a week to live.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u150	Mr Hervé Berville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u151	Tomorrow's presentation of the draft programming law on solidarity development and the fight against global inequalities takes place in a particularly difficult context. The crisis of the Covid-19 has already brought tens of millions of people into hunger and extreme poverty, and in the poorest countries there are considerable setbacks in areas as sensitive as schooling. Unfortunately, there is no indication that a rapid improvement in the situation is on the horizon and decades of progress could be swept away if we do not act today, now, massively and collectively. Against the background of other countries that prefer the retreat, the retreat, the President of the Republic and the Government – thank you, Mr. Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs –, faithful to the values of our country and our history, have made the choice to intensify the fight against poverty and for the preservation of global public goods. With this bill, we are delivering on the commitment made in 2017 to allocate 0.55% of gross national income to official development assistance, and we will set a historic target of 0 7% by 2025. But beyond the increase in resources, what we want is a profound change of method to act as a true partner: to do with and not simply for.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u152	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u153	To act as a partner is what France is doing in the Sahel. The N'Djamena summit this week reminds us: the situation in this region is unstable but the results are there, as the Minister of Defence has reminded us. Acting as a partner means acting in Europeans and making development a pillar of our common response. With this bill, we are increasing support for citizens, especially young people, local communities, diasporas – all those who want to participate and who are key players in this beautiful policy. Yes, international solidarity is everyone's business. Finally, transparency will be completely rethought: an independent evaluation commission will be set up, which will measure the impact of the actions and report to the French on the effectiveness of our financing. Minister, can you confirm to us what these commitments will be fulfilled...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u154	Hello?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u155	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups, as well as on a few benches of the SOC group]] ...and that this bill will give concrete expression to the involvement of many parliamentarians – whom I welcome – present on all these benches?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u156	The next speaker is the Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u157	I really have a conviction, MP Hervé Berville: development must be one of the pillars of French foreign policy and must be at the heart of our diplomacy. It is a question of respect for our values and solidarity, but it is also a question of influence and power. That is why I will present tomorrow, on behalf of the Government, the draft programming law on solidarity development and the fight against global inequalities. This text will bring about a change of focus, in terms of envelope and scope, and a change of methodology in terms of respect for actors and the priority to be given to development aid. It will finally bring about a change in substance, a change in model. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Mr. Philippe Berta also applauds]] I do not want to comment on the most important points now, but I would like to go back to two aspects that you have mentioned. We have spoken on several occasions about the Sahel during this meeting; It is because we have been able to strengthen our development aid that we can now be the real partner in the development of the Sahel, and it is because we are this partner that we can win peace while winning war. The plenary assembly of the Sahel Alliance was held yesterday in N'Djamena. We have seen the mobilisation of forty-five international partners, many of whom are Europeans: EUR 23 billion can be mobilised today. French public aid and European aid contribute very significantly – up to more than 20%. This is our determination, which will be further strengthened by the implementation of the Great Green Wall, a great African project that had been abandoned by the Africans and which the President of the Republic, at the One Planet Summit, has allowed to resurgence.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u158	Mr Pierre Cordier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u159	I would like to associate Mrs Bérengère Poletti, Member of Parliament for the Ardennes, with my question. Prime Minister, I wish to alert you to the consequences of the ban on sports practices since March 2020. There is a real fatigue among young people and clubs are afraid of massive short- and long-term practice stops, especially if other confinements were to occur. Beyond the sport practice itself, it is also the health of our citizens of all ages that is at stake, because sport is essential for physical and moral well-being. Moreover, it is a lever of development and education. Amateur sport is a major economic player, highly dependent on associative and voluntary activity. [[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] Resumption of activities in the hall and outside is essential and urgent, with due respect for health measures. The demotivation of young people and volunteers and the agitation of parents, who feel they have been paying a contribution for nothing for a year, only increase over the weeks. In addition, there is a considerable gap between young people in the hope poles who have been able to continue training in recent months.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u160	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u161	Generation sacrificed!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u162	It's a matter of concern for all the leaders of amateur clubs.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u163	Where's Maracinanu?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u164	The crisis of covid only exacerbated the decline in practice among young people, which was already alarming a year ago. I will have two questions, Prime Minister: on the one hand, are you going to put in place a national plan to revive the practice of sport as the associations of all our territories expect;...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u165	Very good question!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u166	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] ... on the other hand, what are you going to do concretely so that the French of all generations can return to the path of our sports clubs?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u167	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u168	The next speaker is the Minister for National Education, Youth and Sport.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u169	Mr Cordier, I share the ins and outs of your questions. You have rightly stressed the importance of sport itself and for the health of our citizens. It's true from school...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u170	And the minister is a real example!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u171	... and that is why we have brought together the Ministry of National Education and the Ministry of Youth and Sports. Synergies are beginning to be perceptible, including in this particularly difficult period of health crisis for the sports world, in France as in other countries. The Government has taken general measures – I am thinking of the $3 billion released in 2020 to support the world of sport – and specific measures for amateur sport and children's sport. For young people, let's mention the "Thirty minutes of daily physical activity", emblematic of this health issue,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u172	This is ridiculous!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u173	... the development in secondary school of special education "physical education, practice and sports culture", another signal that we send, in addition to the encouragement given to amateur practice of young people. By the start of 2020, there was indeed a drop in the number of sports clubs registered, a problem that you are right to stress. We acted accordingly. The President of the Republic himself has decided to provide €110 million for the "Pass'Sport" to finance the club registration of young people whenever they want.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u174	For which households?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u175	This measure, which gradually enters into force, encourages sports practice at the same time as it contributes to the financing of amateur clubs. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Our policy aims to compensate for the difficulties but also to go beyond the health crisis, because what we want is that all young people practice sport at school as well as outside. You will also see this through the many agreements we have signed with sports federations to bring them closer to the school system and to offer sports to all our children.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u176	You don't understand anything about sports!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u177	Mr Pierre Cordier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u178	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Minister, in our territories, we regularly participate in video conferences with sports clubs that are very worried about the reduction in licences. Your words won't reassure them. We must act quickly to prevent them from disappearing.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u179	Mrs Bénédicte Taurine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u180	Madam Minister for Higher Education, Research and Innovation, you know how much your statements are expected about student precariousness or the reporting of sexual assaults in the IEP – institutes of political studies – but from that you say nothing or almost anything. On the other hand, choosing your channel, CNEWS, you have announced that you want to ask the CNRS – the National Centre for Scientific Research – to investigate all the currents of research at the university in order to distinguish what falls within the scope of academic research from what falls within the scope of activism or opinion, adding even that Islamo-leftism grapples with the university and French society. How can we not see in these remarks, taken up by Mr Blanquer, the infusion in your minds of the ideas of the far right? We are shocked by these witch hunts worthy of another regime. Would we have missed something in the current state of higher education? What exactly are you referring to? Don't you have anything else to do at this time than to launch a thought police?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u181	You have to believe you don't!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u182	Don't you have anything else to offer to all of our researchers who are mobilizing when they have so little money? Why not recruit lecturers while their number has decreased by 36% between 2012 and 2018? The impact study carried out for the next law on the programming of research points out that in 35 years their situation has steadily deteriorated: in 1985, the gross salary of a lecturer at the beginning of his career was 2.25 SMIC compared to 1.53 SMIC in 2018.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u183	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u184	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Madam Minister, what gangreneths the university today is you, you who privatized the master's degrees in Nice against the advice of the teachers you who, every year, reduce the financial and human resources of the university, you who have put in competition millions of high school students and students with Parcoursup! [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] You put Islamo-leftism in all sauces to justify your discriminatory policies and hide your disastrous record!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u185	The Minister for Higher Education, Research and Innovation has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u186	Madam Member, I believe that radicalisation of opinions is what puts the ability to conduct conflicting debates at greatest risk.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u187	We saw him on France2!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u188	I was questioned about student insecurity and recalled what the Government had done.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u189	Not much!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u190	I have been questioned about gender-based and sexual violence and you will never hear me express anything other than my total and unconditional support for the victims. I have been asked about this phenomenon which we see appearing at the university and that teachers and researchers denounce, saying that they are prevented by others from conducting their research. I said this very simple thing: the university is not watertight, it is traversed by all the currents of society and its role is always to study them, to understand them and to ensure that the famous contradictory debate between peers can be held, far from any caricature. In sociology, this is called an "investigation" and I will indeed ask the president of the CNRS, on which depends the national thematic alliance of the humanities and social sciences, the alliance Athena, to take stock of all the research that is taking place in our country, especially those that relate to postcolonialism. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group and on a few benches of the Dem group]] I was extremely shocked to see the Confederate flag appear in the Capitol and I think it is essential that the social and human sciences look at these issues, which are still topical today.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u191	Mr Eric Alauzet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u192	Minister of Transformation and Public Service, "All citizens are also eligible for all dignity, places and public jobs, according to their capacity, and without distinction other than that of their virtues and talents. »
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u193	We're far from it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u194	This republican promise of article 6 of the Declaration of Human and Citizen's Rights, the Government intends to revive it with the talents of the public service. It is a powerful message of equality and hope for our youth, who need it so much in this period of health crisis. She must know that the doors of the public service are wide open to her, at all levels. This is an imperative for us as our country, decade after decade, has retreated in the promotion of meritocracy at the risk of isolation in the self. It is also a message to the public service that will find in this project the possibility of reinventing itself in order to look more like France and the French, and thus better serve them. Together with the President of the Republic, you, Madam Minister, have announced concrete measures: the cordées of the public service to inspire vocations, while some talents are unaware or self-censored; "Prepa Talents" to multiply the talent incubators; access to major schools and the Talents contests to perfect and complete the development of these talents. It is a complete journey and above all a human chain of skills that you want to organize around our youth. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] For when, Madam Minister, and how do you intend to do it?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u195	The Minister for Transformation and the Public Service has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u196	Member of Parliament, in 2019, there was at the ENA, the National School of Administration, a student whose father was a worker. There were five in 2006. These developments are observed in all major public service competitions: the Commissioner of Police, the Director of Hospitals or the Territorial Administrator. The civil service has been the driving force behind the social elevator for decades; She can and must be back. This government is working to make this happen, after decades of great speeches. After three and a half years of very strong investments in school and the colleague, we must also talk to this generation of high school students who actually think that these careers are not for her. To this generation that is afraid of being sacrificed, we must provide a concrete and strong response. This is what we did in Nantes with the President of the Republic: we are going to set up a course that goes through the ropes of success, to 3500 young college students and high school students, and by creating 1,700 places in classes of "Prepa Talents" throughout the country so that the self-censorship of young people in working-class districts, rural areas, overseas is effectively fought at the root and they can access the high public service by passing the same competition tests with the same jury as all the others. Let us also mention the supplement of 4000 euros for all young fellows wishing to prepare the public service competitions, which will allow everyone to find their place. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Mr. Philippe Berta also applauds]] I hear here and there some talk of positive discrimination; I will tell them that after thirty years of initiatives that have led to the strengthening of inequalities rather than the fight against them, we are acting in a republican spirit, in a concrete way, through a programme that will apply from the beginning of the 2021 school year. As you said, Mr. Alauzet, the Declaration of Human and Citizen's Rights focuses on merit and talent; Our young people across the country are full of merit and talent, and we support it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u197	Mr Eric Alauzet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u198	[[Murmures on the benches LR. – Mr Christian Hutin mimics a violin player]] [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Thank you for your answer, Minister. We really count on your determination and your pugnacity to realize this beautiful republican promise for our young people and for the public service.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u199	Mr Alain Ramadier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u200	Prime Minister, last Tuesday, an elected member of a city in my constituency in Seine-Saint-Denis, Bondy, was assaulted in the performance of his duties, resulting in eight days of ITT – temporary incapacity for work.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u201	This is outrageous!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u202	Unfortunately, this aggression is not the first. Since their assumption of office last June, in a tense local context, it must be said, the new elected representatives of this commune, to which I express my full support...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u203	So do we!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u204	... are victims of many misdemeanours: car tires punctured, projectiles thrown into the windows, harassment, cyber-harassment, burned cars, threats, intimidation manoeuvres, public insults. This long, far too long list – and yet it is not exhaustive – should not even exist.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u205	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u206	This is the fourth attack of this type of Seine-Saint-Denis. There's never an answer.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u207	Current and complaints have been filed, but decisions are still pending. Everywhere in France, we find that violence is being committed against local elected officials...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u208	The mayor of Valencia was threatened again!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u209	... and public service agents – police, firefighters, municipal agents. And these violences sometimes end tragically, as was the case with the death of Jean-Mathieu Michel, Mayor of Signes. This violence is symptomatic of a society that goes wrong, of a society where the mayor, local elected officials and public service agents are exposed in the front line to the rise of discontent and overflow. It can't last any longer. The local elected representatives are dedicated and perform their duties for a single mission, the general interest, and are animated by a single aspiration, to be at the service of the inhabitants. Every day, they are on the ground alongside the people to accompany and help them. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group and on several benches of the GDR and SOC groups]] We have had enough of these cowardly and unworthy acts! What do you intend to do to finally protect the elected representatives of the Republic? When are you going to take measures adapted to the gravity of these unjustifiable and ignoble acts? We can no longer wait for an umpteenth text: it is urgent to act!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u210	The next speaker is the Minister for the Interior.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u211	Mr President, you are absolutely right: the increase in attacks on elected officials is a reality. With the guard of the seals and the Minister for Territorial Cohesion and Relations with Local and Regional Authorities, we have already seen this. In recent days, the mayor of Bondy has been targeted twice, as well as the mayor of Rillieux-la-Pape, threatened and now protected by the police, who arrested his attackers. This was also the case of the mayor of Valencia, who was threatened with death.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u212	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u213	Let's not forget the mayors of L'Île-Saint-Denis and Trappes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u214	And those who uttered them were arrested thanks to the work of the police and the judicial authorities and the mobilisation of the prefecture. In Bondy, the people who threatened the mayor have not yet been arrested, but a judicial investigation is under way. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] I will visit the Seine-Saint-Denis department in Bobigny on Thursday to take part in a meeting in the prefecture. I intend to come to your constituency – if you invite me, Mr. MP – and to meet with Mr. Mayor, with his municipal team, to provide him with unwavering support, on behalf of the Prime Minister and the entire Government. Present at his side, I will reaffirm that attacking a mayor, and attacking an elected member of the Republic, is attacking the Republic. As soon as he took office, the Prime Minister asked for very concrete measures, which Mr. keeper of the seals, Mrs. Jacqueline Gourault and I have put in place: there is not even to wait for the texts, they were published. As a result, any inquiry that concerns the election is now a priority. In addition, the law confirming respect for the principles of the Republic, the solemn vote of which will take place in a moment, will make it possible to take particularly strong measures against those who attack persons responsible for public authority, including elected officials. Also know that the telephone calls of all elected representatives, whether they live in rural or urban areas – and whatever their political colour, of course – are treated as a matter of priority by the police and the gendarmerie. We are, it is true, confronted with a question of authority and society,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u215	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u216	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and DEM groups]] ...but the Republic and the Government are mobilized to protect elected officials, regardless of their political background.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u217	Mr. Gabriel Serville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u218	Madam Minister for Higher Education and Research, if the most fragile people everywhere find it very difficult to get vaccinated, the vaccination campaign in Guyana does not take off. While more than 50 years of age are eligible, only 2000 vaccines have been taken. It's very simple: Guyana is the territory where the least vaccination takes place. A strategy that has adapted only late to local realities can be deplored: the population is young, but it has high levels of co-morbidity, particularly related to overweight, diabetes and cardiovascular disease. However, to look at it more closely, another observation emerges: paradoxically, while Guyana has been severely affected by the epidemic, it is also the territory where, in proportion, covid-19 has caused the least number of victims. Studies establish a possible link between local resistance to the virus and widespread vaccination against tuberculosis and yellow fever; But there is as much to bet that the use of traditional pharmacopoeia, especially by the elderly, is not alien to our record of immunity. The promising discoveries of Dr. Henry Joseph, director of the Phytobôkaz laboratory in Guadeloupe, concerning the peak grass and its ability to make the covid-19 host cells hostile to the development of the virus, should be encouraged. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] Minister, overseas has a major role to play in research against covid-19; the new rapid test developed by CIRAD – Centre for International Cooperation in Agronomic Research for Development – in La Réunion has proved this. We must be able to build on the excellence that is developing there, with the Institut Pasteur of Guyana, for example. Even though it is recognized, this excellence seems to be out of line and out of line with your strategy. How do you intend to support these initiatives, which are designed to integrate national or even international strategies?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u219	The Minister for Higher Education, Research and Innovation has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u220	Thank you, honourable Member, for your question, which will allow me to recall the importance and diversity of French research on covid-19, both in metropolitan France and in the ultramarine territories. It is indeed all of our researchers who are mobilizing against the virus. You mentioned several initiatives launched overseas. The Phytobôkaz laboratory has thus developed a medicine based on peak grass, a plant whose virtues have been exploited for centuries, which arouses a great craze. It is still too early to take stock, but as a biochemist, I can obviously only recognize the potential contribution of molecules present in traditional pharmacopoeias, especially in tropical and subtropical countries, rich in biodiversity. You also mentioned the rapid tests developed by CIRAD and the University of La Réunion, in connection with the CHU – university hospital centre – in La Réunion. On this molecular diagnostic test, which makes it possible to detect the presence of the virus much faster, the research was financed by the Ministry of Higher Education, Research and Innovation, to the tune of 165,000 euros. These tests have been evaluated favourably by the CNR – National Reference Centre – and are widely used in France; I have no doubt that they will be very quickly in Europe and abroad. You also mentioned the Institut Pasteur of Guyana, which is part of the network of Pasteur institutes supported by the State. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group. – Mr. Philippe Berta also applauds]] We therefore support and encourage research in the overseas territories. The fourth investment programme for the future envisages, in the framework of the programmes of excellence, to accompany the ultramarine establishments carrying out ambitious transformation projects: this will is expressed explicitly in the framework of the calls for projects, in particular for the part of the research. Yes, research across France is promising; of course we will continue to support it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u221	We have completed the questions to the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u222	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u223	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u224	The next item is the explanations of vote on behalf of the groups and the vote by public vote on the whole bill to uphold the principles of the Republic (No. 3649 corrected, 3797).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u225	Mr Boris Vallaud has the floor for the Socialist and related group.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u226	We came to the conclusion of the first reading of what had been announced as the great law to combat separatism. While I generally welcome the quality of the debates, they will not have allowed us to lift our caution or to dispel the confused feeling of a missed meeting. The balance of the speech of the President of the Republic to the Walls, which we, like others, welcomed, has been lost of sight and the announcements last week concerning equal opportunities cannot stand in the way of this law. As often since the beginning of the quinquennium, the right hand is visible, the fist closed, while the left hand remains taped at the bottom of the pockets. Will we live better tomorrow with this law? Will it allow us to overcome the fractures, the retreat of some, the inter-self of others, to bring back to the Republic, by the Republic, those who defy or defy it? Will it allow the demanding balance of "the Republic to the end", as Jaurès said, with the republican order on the one hand and the republican promise on the other? There is room for doubt. Since 2012, France has been hit hard by its enemies and the scars that remain oblige us. We are, and must remain, without complacency in the face of separatism, in the face of radical Islamism, in the face of terrorism. From this point of view, have no doubt about our determination. We are also, through our history, committed to respect for the principles of the Republic and to the protection against the attacks against them, to those – police or gendarmerie officials, teachers, caregivers – who have decided to put themselves at the service of the general interest and in essence to be faithful to a certain spirit of resistance. Faithful to the legacy of Jean Jaurès, Aristide Briand, Ferdinand Buisson, we are committed to secularism, that is to say, the freedom to believe or not to believe. Today it is the oxygen that allows us to live together with respect for our differences and our common humanity. We are committed to human dignity, that is why you have found us at your side to support several provisions of this text, including those aimed at strengthening the obligation of neutrality of all agents who contribute to the performance of a public service mission, to ensure the functional protection of public officials or to increase the control of the financing of cults, in line with Paul Deschanel. We have also supported measures to combat violence against women or to strengthen school controls. In addition, you have had the benevolence to retain some of our amendments. Good. But we are also viscerally attached to freedom and to the balance of the laws that underpin it, that freedom which is, not a word, but a principle of life in common. From this point of view, we cannot consider the law we have debated as a great liberal law, as is the 1901 or 1905 law. Many provisions have concerned community representatives, cults, the Human Rights Defender or the CNCDH, the National Consultative Commission on Human Rights. If we speak this way, it is because we know history and because we have obsession that after us no one can use the republican order, as we have built it, to turn against it. There is not on one side the soft and on the other side the hard, there is on the one hand the Republicans and on the other the enemies of the Republic, who never buy themselves a virtue for a long time. No TV set should make us forget it. We are not convinced, as you know, that our House has found the right balance in terms of freedom of association and the contract of engagement. The ambiguity of some of your answers, for example, when it comes to whether the withdrawal of a grant is, for communities, a related skill, will have increased our doubts. Nor are we convinced by the wording of the article on the liability of others for associations: again, an ambiguity remains in the drafting. Only one certainty: freedom of association is not reinforced by this law. We are also concerned about the criminalization of the dissemination of personal information. If we fully understand the intention, we regret that you did not take into account our amendment, which, however, echoed the opinion of the Council of State in order to explicitly release the freedom to inform from the scope of this provision. Similarly, the failure to distinguish property offences from personal offences, the failure to prioritize risks and the proportionality of penalties presented serious challenges. Finally, we fear the imbroglio that will not fail to bring about your reform of the laws of 1905 and 1907, the introduction of a system of double declaration and the creation of a third category of association. In any case, I am certain that we reserve many disputes when it comes to determining what is cultural and cultural. But above all, we regret that you have reduced the Republic to rules, injunctions and grounds of public order, which you have not chosen to make live the Republic and its principles on a daily basis, in deeds. This debate has given the right the opportunity to talk about the veil, the theory of gender and many other issues, but we have not been able to talk about the fight against the discrimination that affects so many of our fellow citizens, the injuring racism, the integration that everyone wants for himself or for his children, housing policy – while so many mayors, for twenty years, have not respected the law of solidarity and urban renewal, known as SRU – or social mix in school: so many issues that, however, are part of the fight against separatism. [[Applause on the SOC benches]] Our philosophy for a century has been never to dissociate secular struggle from social struggle. By considering them separately, you take the risk of not winning any of these battles. On all these issues, Mr. Minister of the Interior, you and the Government have chosen to abstain. We're at first reading. The parliamentary debate will continue. On many points of concern, it is imperative that this text be rebalanced and rewritten. At this point, abstention will be the answer to your impasses.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u227	The next speaker is Mr Pierre-Yves Bournazel, for the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u228	For the past two weeks, we have been debating this bill and each parliamentary group has been able to share its proposals. Of course, we do not agree on everything. Some would have wanted it to deal with all public policies, while others felt that it did not go far enough on various subjects. Still others – sometimes the same – consider on the contrary that it goes too far in different areas. However, I think I can say that we have debated in a spirit of listening, that the rapporteurs and the Government have shown a spirit of openness, that progress has been made, that parliamentarians, on the various benches of the House, have been able to enrich the text or find compromises of wisdom. More than 300 amendments were adopted. We do not fight an ideology solely with ideas or with a law. It is a long way to regain the republican spirit that is before us. It's a multi-generation horizon. I believe – I hope even – that we can all find ourselves in the desire to strengthen our republican principles in the face of unacceptable abuses committed in the name of a misguided and instrumentalized religion for a political project. This is a lucid and salutary step taken by the Government. The purpose of the text is indeed to strengthen our legislative arsenal in order to combat attempts at separatism and allow the Republic to react within the framework of the rule of law! In this sense, it is a combat text because it reinforces the neutrality of the public service by extending it to all those who carry out a public service mission in all spheres of the Republic, secularism being an intangible principle. It is a combat text because it protects public service agents by creating an offence of separatism and an offence of obstructing the function of teacher. It is a combat text because it fights against the phenomenon of separatist intrusiveness by making subsidies conditional upon the signing of a Republican contract of engagement, thus affirming in concrete terms that respect for the principles of the Republic is not an option. It is a combat text that aims to better control foreign financing and to be able, if necessary, to oppose it. It is a combat text because it allows the prefect to temporarily close a place of worship where speeches are made that encourage hatred and violence. It is a combat text that is part of a vision of the Enlightenment, more specifically that of equality between women and men, explicitly prohibiting the practice of virginity certificates and punishing them more heavily. Ladies and gentlemen, it is also a text of freedom, a text of freedom of conscience, freedom and emancipation of the individual, reaffirming his freedom to believe or not to believe. Yes, it is a text of freedom in line with the conception of Aristide Briand, that is, the freedom of worship that our French vision of secularism defends, in which the state does not recognize any religion but assures citizens the full freedom to practice their worship without any limit other than the respect of public order. It is a text of freedom that modernises the financing of cults by allowing cult associations to earn income from buildings. It is a text of freedom because it sanctifies the teacher's role in his class. It is a text of freedom because it provides teachers with new tools by making training in secularism compulsory. It is a text of freedom because it puts the school at the heart of the Republican project as a place for the emancipation of the individual and equal opportunities. More than ever, equality of opportunity is the driving force behind the educational reforms that this government has brought about by the priority given to the acquisition of fundamentals, by the duplication of classes in CP and EC1 for those who have less social and cultural capital at the outset, by the upgrading of the profession and salaries of teachers, Minister of National Education. It is in this trajectory that this bill sets out; It must be borne in mind in the account of the quinquennium and the action of the Government for more than three and a half years. [[Applause on the banks of the Action ens group, as well as on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, we do not agree on everything, and that is quite normal, but how can we not find ourselves on the essentials, that is to say, on the strengthening of the principles of the Republic? I call for the responsibility of the oppositions, because what unites us is stronger than what divides us: it is the general interest that must command, and everyone must have here as his sole compass, the service of France and the Republic! I repeat: there is a time when, in the diversity of our sensitivities, we must come together in the name of the general interest. That is why we will be voting for this bill with strength, confidence and enthusiasm!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u229	Mr Pascal Brindeau, for the IDU and independent group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u230	The Republic is more than a political organization, more than a system of shared values. It is first of all an idea, this idea that goes beyond everything and that makes the man, the citizen, whatever his origin, whatever his social condition, whatever his beliefs, have equal dignity. It is this idea that brought the French together in history, this idea that was often built in the fighting, and that allows us to make nation through the crises. And, in fact, this idea is now being attacked by some who, by indoctrination, by culture or by calculation, want to get citizens out of the Republic. The President of the Republic, in his speech to the Walls, set a goal for the Government: to present to Parliament this bill on which we are now called upon to vote. This text contains a panel of provisions aimed at further protecting republican principles, at a time when some are playing in circumstances, by exploiting the weaknesses of our legislative machinery. Among the positive points raised by IDU and independent Members, there is first and foremost respect for the principle of neutrality and secularism in the public service. It is a fundamental provision that will protect public officials while establishing their duties and responsibilities in relation to what brings us together around the idea of freedom, of course, but also vis-à-vis all our fellow citizens. Then there is the encouragement of religious associations to place themselves under the umbrella of the 1905 law, which guarantees a balance between cults and the state's regime of separation. Thirdly, there is the strengthening of the fight against hate speech online, of which we see that it is one of the ferments of separatism but also, unfortunately, of the attacks that we have seen on the lives of our fellow citizens... We are obviously thinking here, again, of Samuel Paty. Fourthly, there is also the fight against cultural practices that violate human dignity, particularly that of women. Finally, among the positive points, there is better control over the financing of cultural associations, whether they come from the national space or from abroad. Our proposals on this matter have not been accepted at this stage. Thus, Jean-Christophe Lagarde defended the idea of creating foundations by worship. This filter between foreign funding and the organization of cults in France would break the chain of influence of some countries on the organization of Muslim worship. We regret, on the other hand, that certain provisions restrict freedom, in particular freedom of worship, but also freedom of education, a fundamental principle recognized by the Constitution, and that we, together with other colleagues in the House, have been committed to defending Article 21. We still do not believe that, in its current wording, the text has managed to strike a balance between respect for freedom and the willingness to deal with problems that we do not deny exist. Finally, this text fails from our point of view to the republican promise, which would allow young people who are now suffering, in dissension, questioning their place in the Republic, to feel fully associated and integrated with this approach of defending republican principles. [[Applause on the benches of the IDU-I group and on some benches of the LR group]] A large majority of IDU and independent group members will vote for this text, some will abstain. For my part, as I myself said last Saturday, I will not vote for it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u231	The next speaker is Mr Alexis Corbière, for the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u232	After two weeks of debate, following dozens of hours of forced marching hearings in the special committee set up for this purpose, we are just a few minutes away from the solemn vote on a text that you considered important. However, its name is strange: the text would tend to defend "respect for republican principles", while it strictly reinforces none, does not propose any new ones and, let us say, your policy weakens many of them. In the course of these debates you have strongly rejected all our amendments, so we will vote with the same determination against your text. Yes, our disagreement remains more than ever. Of course, there are a few reassertions of the law in force in this bill that we agreed with, of course, sometimes finding it appropriate to support them, especially when it comes to enabling our officials to be better defended. However, it would be better if the functional protection enjoyed by any official were implemented, and not left out due to negligence or poor instructions given to the hierarchy... But let us have the courage to say one thing, let us have the courage to say it to our fellow citizens, at a time when it is so difficult to hear: no, it is not in places of worship, including places of worship of Muslim faith, that the terrorist conspiracy of tomorrow is organized. This reality doesn't exist! To such an extent that the head of the Central Territorial Intelligence Service told the Special Commission that at least 96 per cent of Muslim places of worship had no problem whatsoever. Let us have the courage to repeat it in order to participate in national harmony and to prevent our society from fragmenting a little more! Unfortunately, this text will have formed only an additional halo of suspicion around a set of associations generally led by our fellow Muslims. This text, which I sum up in broad terms, leads to measures that we are concerned about, starting with the possibility of an administrative dissolution of cultural associations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u233	Very good measure!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u234	We believe that these serious decisions, when they are necessary, are for justice to take them and not for political power! Otherwise, tomorrow another political power will have in its hands a terrible tool to prevent freedom of worship in this country. In fact, in the Government, you are already experiencing the temptation, in the name of a political agenda on which I will return, to abuse administrative power.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u235	Yes, of course.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u236	There is also an obligation for religious associations to change their way of functioning, whereas, in our view, a true understanding of secularism must prevent the political power from mingling with the organization of cults. And there is even, I have just mentioned, the possibility of dissolving a cult association and closing a place of worship that brings together thousands of our fellow citizens because of the words of one! This is a form of collective punishment that no republican spirit can tolerate. This is the spirit of this text, which leads us to say no, to say that secularism is not a soft thing but a principle that must be reaffirmed and explained! [[Mr. Jean-Luc Mélenchon applauds]] As the Government wanted to debate secularism, we said to it: Chiche! Well yet, despite our repeated requests, despite our amendments, the 1905 law will still not apply throughout the territory since you have accepted the idea that in three departments, those of Upper Rhine, Lower Rhine and Moselle,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u237	Stop attacking Alsace and Moselle! You should take them as an example!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u238	... there is always public funding for worship. How can we have a useful pedagogy vis-à-vis our fellow citizens if we accept the idea that we are not equal in law, dear fellow Mosellans and Alsatians? That's because I love you and respect you...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u239	Take an example on Alsace!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u240	...that I want you equal in law and that I refuse that you cannot benefit from the same laws as all our fellow citizens. Similarly, we have asked that in order for citizens to understand the obligation imposed on them by the legislator to respect principles of neutrality, the elected representatives should be the first to set the example!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u241	Stop your tank!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u242	And we do not accept that it is still possible for some elected officials, with public funds, to hold religious ceremonies! Yet this is still the case despite our multiple demands.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u243	Stop your speech too!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u244	But above all, what is striking in this text is its silences, its oblivions: not a word about a separatism that does exist, this school separatism which makes that equality in law, in this case the right to education, is not the same according to the school where one goes, according to the public school where one goes, but also because of a systemic competition that will one day have to be taken by hand, that of the private school – a system which makes today four times more favored children in private schools than in public schools, and which leads to the disappearance of what you sometimes call the "social elevator". This determinism must stop! We must also put an end to territorial separatism, and to the vaccine separatism that leads the inhabitants of my department, the Seine-Saint-Denis, to be twice as much vaccinated as others. In a word, we must put an end to the separatism of the rich! Yes, this society is fragmenting, atomizing, archipelizing... But to put an end to it, you have to be clear about it. Finally, what I blame you for is your political objective: beyond the text, you wanted to create a context and a political agenda that must lead you until 2022. The real objective of the text is this debate on France2...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u245	Abbreviate!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u246	...where, Mr. Minister of the Interior, you found Mrs. Le Pen too soft. You considered that there were convergences of views between you and she herself said that she could have signed the book you wrote to accompany the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u247	We must conclude, dear colleague...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u248	[[Hues on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] In 2017, you were given a mandate to block the ideas of the National Front; A dam, not a passageway. For all these reasons, we are refusing this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u249	Mr Charles de Courson, for the Libertés et Territoires Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u250	Fifteen days ago, on the occasion of the general discussion and before we began the very long discussion of the text, our group asked a simple question: will the bill effectively combat separatism and the terrorist threat, while respecting fundamental freedoms? Our vote will be taken in the light of the answers to this question. We have approached the discussion of the text in a constructive spirit, and we have defended many proposals for improvement. Our group – in which important debates have taken place – will remain faithful to the principle of the freedom to vote of its members. If the majority of us vote against the text, the three members of the radical left-wing component – the secular and republican centre, heir to the founders of the Third Republic and its major laws like that of 1905 – endorse the urgent need to forcefully defend our republican principles and subscribe to the provisions of the bill. They will not therefore vote against the bill. However, they recall that the Republic must be secular and social. However, social justice and equal opportunities have all too often been absent from the Government's public policies so far. All the members of the group, on the other hand, welcomed the measures aimed at strengthening the principles of secularism and neutrality of the public service, as well as the measures inherent in the protection of civil servants. However, our group regrets the essentially repressive nature of the text, as well as the lack of a social and economic aspect in favour of the integration of our citizens who are tempted by separatism and who consider themselves on the margins of society, whether in terms of housing, employment or better access to education. The majority of our group disagrees with certain provisions which unduly violate fundamental freedoms. These are first of all the measures relating to associations contained in chapter II, and in particular article 6 of the draft law which provides for the creation of a Republican contract of engagement...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u251	Very good measure!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u252	...between the State and associations. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the Republic is not a contract: it is simply a commitment to respect its principles. Articles aimed at combating hatred are also problematic. Article 18, despite its amendment, still seems imprecise and inconsistent with Article 24 of the draft law on global security, adopted at first reading by our House and to which our group has opposed. Measures on education are also a problem. Article 21, which seeks to restrict family education from a declaration scheme to an authorization scheme, constitutes an infringement of freedom of education. Most families using family education are good Republicans. The French terrorists who hit our country had all gone to public school. Moreover, who should define the best interests of the child: the family or the State? Finally, many of the measures in Title II relating to the practice of worship, including those provided for in Articles 26 and 27, will create significant and costly administrative and accounting burdens for all religious associations. These measures may further degrade the attractiveness of the status of the 1905 Act, which is contrary to the Government's objective under this Act. [[Applause on the benches of the LT group]] When a government wants to amend some of the founding texts of the Third Republic, such as the Freedom of the Press Act of 1881, the Education Act of 1882, known as the Ferry Act, the Contract of Association Act of 1901 or the Acts of 1905 and 1907, respectively, relating to the separation of the Churches from the State and the public exercise of worship, it is necessary to devote a great deal of time and dialogue with all political and social forces in order to find the right balance. Unfortunately, that is not what you have done, because the purpose of this text is simple: it is a question of making our fellow citizens believe that these measures will solve the problem posed by separatism in general, and Islamic fundamentalism in particular.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u253	The floor is open to Mr Stéphane Peu, for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u254	Defending the principles of the Republic, reversing religious fundamentalism and its dramatic consequences are serious challenges for our time.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u255	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u256	If the law we are looking at was one of the ways to respond to it, we, the Communist Members of Parliament, would gladly have followed you, who have historically contributed to the inclusion of secularism in the preamble of the Constitution and to its inclusion in the principles of modern public service. Unfortunately, we are far from it. At the end of our discussions, it appears that the law is moving away from the spirit of freedom that blew on the spirit of 1905. Yes, secularism is the daughter of freedom, that of believing or not believing and practicing her religion in accordance with public order. In this regard, allow me to recall the words Aristide Briand addressed to the legislator regarding article 1 of the 1905 Act: "The Republic cannot oppress consciences or hinder, in its multiple forms, the external expression of religious sentiments. It is indeed as freedom that secularism has become an effective means of strengthening the spirit of national harmony. No, secularism does not oblige the religious neutrality of society and its constituent individuals, but that of the State and the Republic. No, secularism never assumed religious neutrality in public space, but religious neutrality in public space. Unfortunately, your law is a law of restriction, rather than a law of freedom. I fear that it will fuel division, rather than the necessary national cohesion. But if this text is not up to the work of our predecessors of 1905, it is also not at the level of the speech of the President of the Republic delivered to the Walls. By dealing only with the consequences and not the causes, and neglecting what makes the soil of the separatist logics under way, the text condemns itself to inefficiency. Basically, it poses a problem less for what it contains than for what it does not contain. That will justify the majority abstention of my group. Indeed, where have the social measures promised by Emmanuel Macron gone? Nothing about the social determinism that gnaws our school institution, whose weakening does more for the discredit of the Republic than many separatist discourses. There is nothing to fight against ghettos, to correct social separatism and to fight against the breaches of republican equality suffered by territories like mine, which the public services have deserted and where there are fewer teachers, police officers, doctors and magistrates than elsewhere. Nor is there anything to combat discrimination and daily misappropriation of equality between citizens. How can we claim to defend secularism if, at the same time, voluntary social policies are not implemented to break the chains of determinism? How long will we continue to quote Jaurès without understanding him, who wrote "The Republic must be secular and social but will remain secular because it has been social"? We have regularly expressed our fears of an unbalanced law, bearing a narrow vision of the Republic and pointing at our compatriots of Muslim faith: they have been reinforced not only by the content of the text and by our debates but also, let us say, by the political postures of the Government and the President of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u257	Well, vote against it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u258	[[Protests on several benches of the LaREM group]] We cannot let you use the legislative debate to launch the 2022 campaign.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u259	Well done, Mr. Little!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u260	By trying at all costs to install the scenario of a duel between Mr. Macron and Mrs. Le Pen, it is the spectacle of a duo that is offered to us. What a sad spectacle that the one proposed on a public channel by Minister Darmanin judging Mrs. Le Pen too soft,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u261	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u262	... while the latter acknowledged that she could have written the book of the first.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u263	Sign it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u264	These two would not have done otherwise if they had wanted to show the French that, concerning them, it is white and white hat. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group and on some benches of the FI group]] Everything shows for four years that your policy, far from being a bulwark against the far right, is ever more so; Don't count on us to assist you in this terrible flight forward. In conclusion, let me take this warning from Henri Guaino: moral defeat always precedes political defeat.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u265	Ladies and gentlemen, we should stop the brouhaha, which does not allow us to listen distinctly to the speakers. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. In addition, I would remind you that it will be immediately followed by the vote by public vote on the bill ratifying Order No. 2019-950 of 11 September 2019, which is part of the Juvenile Criminal Justice Code. The next speaker is Mr Guillaume Vuilletet, for the Group of the European People's Party (La République en marche).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u266	We come to the conclusion of the discussion of a major text, after almost sixty hours of work in committee and eighty hours in the Chamber. We have discussed our Republic with dignity. So solid in the soul of France and the landmark of so many of our fellow citizens, it is still under the blows of the social and political crisis. It is damaged also and especially by those who take advantage of this fragility to insidiously undermine the building. It is this fact that the President of the Republic made during his speech of the Walls. He put words...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u267	Words, always words!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u268	...on what is simply a reality. He called separatism the will of radicalized extremists to use the weaknesses of our society to build a counter-society based on the rejection of the other, on the community retreat, on the enslavement of women, on the renunciation of freedom of conscience. It is a totalitarianism built especially on a perverted version of religion. We have long believed that our secular Republic, by its very existence, was sufficient to avert the temptation of such a regression. We were wrong: the social crisis corrupted the faith in the republican promise and the Republic itself sometimes accommodated those actors who seemed able to calm the neighborhoods. The Mureaux' speech dates from October 2, but Samuel Paty's atrocious assassination, two weeks later, led to a dramatic awareness. The fight against separatism was an imperative of general interest for a long time, the tragedy made it an urgent moral necessity. So what's in this text? First of all, to guarantee and supplement the imperative of secularism which is required for public action by major advances. Then, protect victims – physical or online – from separatism. We have also sought to eradicate so-called cultural practices, which, however, have the common effect of scorning and subjugating women. We wanted to combat the deviousness of republican rules, either through the misuse of associative freedom or through the sectarian practice of family education. Finally, in accordance with the law of 1905, we wanted religions to be able to organize freely. To organize freely means not to be subjected without control to foreign financing, and not to allow any place of worship to become hostage to extremists and radicalised people. [[Mr. Sébastien Huyghe protested]] We have built a practical and simple toolbox to achieve these goals. Above all, on the right, we are accused of a text that does not touch his target, the Salafist and Frerist separatists, while bothering everyone. I note, however, that the right-wing opposition voted in favour of a large part of the provisions of the text: Article 1 on the neutrality of employees involved in the exercise of public service, Article 3 on the register of perpetrators of terrorist offences, Article 4 on the protection of public servants, Article 5 on functional protection, Article 14 on polygamy, Article 16 on virginity certificates. What is your consistency? Perhaps, colleagues on the right-wing side, will this consistency be to vote just now like France is insoubted? Either, it's a concept that we need to build because it deserves to be analyzed. Let me defend what we have refused the ease of stigmatization for. We have built a law that respects the rule of law without which there is no democracy. One of its foundations is that the law is the same for all. The temptation to stigmatize, to which you too often give in, colleagues on the right, is first of all a mistake, since it amounts to asserting that separatism cannot be combated without freeing itself from republican principles. It is also a defeat, because the very objective of the separatists is that we radicalize ourselves in our turn. The courage you demand is that of the restriction of freedoms: the one we take advantage of is that of a demanding and effective response that enables everyone to live according to their convictions. A word to the left oppositions, whose consistency is just as difficult to follow: you denounce a pseudo-stigmatization but you voted for articles 1, 5 and 14, 8 on the dissolution of associations and 13 on the protection of the reservatory heirs.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u269	We don't understand anything.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u270	You find yourself on one point: you denounce the absence of the social pillar of the discourse of the Walls. No, we don't turn our backs on the Social Republic! This text is only one step in the re-establishment of the Republican Pact. This is not the first: I am thinking of republican reconquest districts, the doubling of the classes of CP and CE1 or the law on sexual and gender-based violence. Nor is it the last: I am thinking of the €3.3 billion plan announced recently in favour of the priority neighbourhoods of the city's policy. The questions we had to answer are complex. I am pleased that, in the Republic on the move, positions have sometimes been diverse but coherent and united on most of the provisions. I remember the Cassandres who announced the fracturing of the majority: they are for their own expense and must now turn their gazes towards the oppositions, who have all the troubles of the world to justify their contradictions. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] This is a major piece of legislation. President Doumergue said: "Division in the nation is the suicide of the nation [...]. Our duty is to bring it together: that is why the moving Republic Group will vote in favour of this text!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u271	Mrs Annie Genevard, for the Republican Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u272	At last a sensible word!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u273	After the speech of the President of the Republic to the Walls, after the assassination of Samuel Paty, we hoped for a powerful law firmly erected in the face of Islamist separatism: we were wrong. The scheduled legislative time, the censorship of our amendments before any discussion, your very attitude, Minister of the Interior, between provocation and irony easy to avoid the debate,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u274	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u275	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] ...were not up to the necessary burst. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] We reject the trial of the systematic opposition. We voted in favour of useful measures and proposed improvements, most of which were rejected. We object to the trial in Islamophobia: to fight against Islamist separatism is to protect the freedom of worship of Muslims in France. These unfounded criticisms have only one purpose: to hide the fact that your text simply touches on the problems. Let me give you a few examples. No one accepts forced marriages. And how do you think you're preventing them? Through an individual interview of the bride and groom to fill out a form: this is not serious. You have refused to prohibit a person convicted of terrorism from running a non-cultural association: it is incomprehensible.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u276	This is outrageous!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u277	You don't know about radicalization in prisons and businesses. You are extending the principle of neutrality in public services: we approve, but why refuse any net to think about enterrism in the area of public services, especially in the sports environment, when it is ostensibly invaded by religious signs? On the method, again: why do you attack all cults instead of targeting Islamist separatist ideology? You subreptitiously direct the liberal secularism of the 1905 law, you revive distrust of religions whose contribution to the common good cannot be contested. You create the amalgam between family education and separatism, without strengthening control. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] A word about the wearing of the veil: it is not a question of stigmatizing Islam but of fighting against an ideology that claims that a woman would emancipate herself while hiding. No woman here can believe that it is necessary for her to hide in order to assert her personality. With Eric Ciotti, we told you straight away: the veil is contrary to women's freedom. Why do you remain in ambiguity, Mr. Minister of the Interior, including when it comes to veiling the girls? What a moral defeat! What political cowardice! Radical Islam is patient and methodical. He starts by embezzling the children because tomorrow they will be his activists or even his soldiers. What is the strong plan of action and affirms that this law opposes this devious enterrism in the school and out-of-school environment? I have proposed the creation of an offence of obstructing the teaching function, despite the opposition of the Government and thanks to parliamentarians of the majority whom I welcome. But I know that, for lack of political will, this provision could remain a dead letter. Let us think of this professor of Trappes, attacked by the mayor of the city and even by the prefect because he dared to denounce the advance of Islamism.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u278	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u279	No, it's a fake new!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u280	What will your law change in Trappes? Unfortunately, not much. We could simply blame this text for being incomplete. On the bottom, it's the truth, but it's more serious. As Damien Abad said, it's a small text for a big topic. You are proud to be between those who want more and those for whom it is already too much, even if you lose yourself by pointing at the softness of a supposed rival you love. The inventor of this equidistant "at the same time" has been living in the Elysée: for four years, he has been saying his intentions without ever concretizing them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u281	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u282	This political posture is destructive. Once again, at the end of the posture, the actions will be very lukewarm and the disappointed French could turn to the worst. We, the Republicans, will never cease to oppose these electoral facilities which the far right also develops.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u283	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u284	[[Claims on several banks of the LaREM Group]] [[Vif applause on the benches of the LR group]] We will vote against this poster text with no great scope and no courage. The Senate, where the right is the majority, will strengthen it. Will you finally agree to create the conditions of the burst that our country so much needs?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u285	Mrs Isabelle Florennes, for the Group of the European Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u286	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM Group – Exclaims on the benches of the LR Group]] We are concluding today the discussion of a balanced and courageous text, on which the Democratic Movement Group has resolutely committed itself by its constant presence at the pre-hearings, during the debates in the special committee and throughout the public debate, both we believe that the measures we are defending here will help us to combat separatism. It is decades of renunciation that the Government is trying to redress with this text and the measures on which we have been able to make progress in these debates, including in open session, through timely amendments. I am thinking of the addition of the oath in all the sensitive professions, of the obligation on municipal elected officials to respect the principles of neutrality of public service and secularism when acting on behalf of the State, of the possibility for representatives of the administration who are aware of the facts covered by the new offence of separatism to lodge a complaint – under an amendment tabled by our colleague rapporteur Laurence Vichnevsky on an important subject which was very important to him – and, finally, of the strengthening, which we have also obtained, of the control of foreign financing of the endowment funds. But these new measures will not succeed without work on the ground, as close as possible to our fellow citizens, alongside elected officials and associations, which are already doing a considerable amount of work. We still need to move forward on the question of the financing of new places of worship because, in this area, Mr.Minister, we have already told you that the answers given do not seem sufficient, as François Pupponi has repeatedly pointed out.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u287	An old PS!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u288	So what?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u289	However, this is an essential issue, as we know. However, this does not detract from this bill, which, as I said, is the most courageous bill to date. We are tackling a complex problem at the same time, and we have made every effort to provide tools to respond to threats to the Republic. Thanks to the work carried out by our group, we have, in particular, obtained, through an amendment by Philippe Vigier, a report from the Government on the essential question of the republican promise.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u290	Bravo! What a breakthrough!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u291	It was a key issue for us because it is no longer acceptable to move firmly without this daily support on the ground. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group and on several benches of the LaREM group]] [[Same movements]] We are also very pleased that our efforts, and the sometimes strong but fruitful dialogue with the Government, in particular with the Minister of National Education, whom I thank, have resulted in the thorny issue of family education. Thanks to the work done by Géraldine Bannier, we have achieved a balanced progress that achieves the objective of the text, while preserving family education. The device was intelligently completed in order to make it operational with amendments by Jean-Paul Mattei and Frédéric Petit. I would also like to welcome Perrine Goulet's strong commitment to respect women's dignity – a commitment that has resulted in the adoption of an amendment to prohibit any act attesting to a woman's virginity. Finally, with regard to the method, we can congratulate ourselves on two points: firstly, on the creation of the special committee, which the chairman of our group, Patrick Mignola, had asked for.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u292	Come on! A Caesar for Mignola!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u293	This committee has allowed for thorough work and this is a good thing to be stressed, because our work in public session has benefited from this first discussion, which was long and enriching. On the other hand, the lively debates that took place in the sitting allowed, in my view, the expression of all the sensitivities. Our fellow citizens have been very well represented in all the diversity of their opinions. It must be recalled at the moment: in this respect, the parliamentary debate is still so important. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group and on several benches of the LaREM group]] As you will understand, ladies and gentlemen, the Democratic Movement Group will vote with determination in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u294	I put the whole bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u295	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 563 Number of votes cast 498 Absolute majority 250 For adoption 347 Against 151
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u296	The next item is the vote, by public vote, on the draft law ratifying the Ordinance of 11 September 2019 on the legislative part of the Code of Criminal Justice for Minors, taking into account the text of the Joint Joint Committee as amended by the amendments adopted (No. 3831). I put the whole bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u297	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 554 Number of votes cast 518 Absolute majority 260 For adoption 481 Against 37
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u298	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u299	[[The sitting was suspended at 18.00 and resumed at 18.00, with Annie Genevard in the chair.]]
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u300	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u301	The next item is the report of the Joint Joint Committee on the draft law postponing from March to June 2021 the general renewal of the departmental councils, the regional councils and the assemblies of Corsica, Guyana and Martinique (No 3812, 3827, 3884).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u302	The next speaker is Mr Remy Rebeyrotte, rapporteur of the Joint Joint Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u303	After being passed in the Senate at the end of January, the bill to postpone the regional and departmental elections from March to June 2021 was voted unanimously minus seven abstentions by our assembly just a week ago. Together with our fellow senators, the Joint Joint Committee that met last Thursday managed to reach an agreement, in a spirit of open and constructive dialogue. I am pleased that a parliamentary consensus has emerged, reflecting a very broad convergence of views on the finalized text. Changing the electoral calendar and adapting the organisation of campaigns and elections are not anodizing acts: it is an essential democratic issue. The organisation of the next elections next June therefore reflects the recommendations made by President Jean-Louis Debré in his report to the Prime Minister. I would like to thank the Deputy Minister for Citizenship for announcing before the national representative that the two rounds of elections will take place on 13 and 20 June, which gives some visibility to our fellow citizens, to all the candidates, and to the communes that will organise the two elections. The agreement reached in the Joint Joint Committee preserves most of the many contributions resulting from the parliamentary examination: I am thinking in particular of the deadline set at March 2028 for the forthcoming regional and departmental mandates, the use of "double proxy", the extension of the deadline for the filing of campaign accounts and the duration of the official campaign, the setting up of a free number that voters can compose in order to get in touch with the candidates and their teams, or the organisation of an institutional audiovisual communication campaign that our assembly has extended to the departmental elections. I sincerely believe that this institutional campaign is both more operational, relevant and useful than the dissemination of campaign clips on the regional branches of France 3, which would have mechanically reduced the time devoted to debates and regional information. I would like once again to welcome France Télévisions' commitment to support local democracy, as it has been able to do through the 240 debates held last year in the context of the second round of municipal elections, under the supervision of the Conseil supérieur de l'audiovisuel – CSA.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u304	An amendment by our colleague Paul Molac introduced Article 2a, which provides for the publication by the National Commission of campaign accounts and political financing of an updated guide for the candidate and the representative, is also a positive point. The same is true of Article 4b, adopted on the initiative of our colleague from the Dem Isabelle Florennes Group, which provides for the submission of a report from the Government to Parliament on the possibility of using voting machines for the municipalities which wish to do so in view of the forthcoming elections. With the Senate, a balance has also been found in the drafting of Article 2, which also provides for the submission of a report from the Government to Parliament by 1 April this year. As the report of the former President of the Constitutional Council, Jean-Louis Debré, rightly pointed out, this report will not constitute an "automatic re-visit clause", but rather a "situation point" in order to take stock of the health situation in order to consider, where appropriate, decisions and adaptations for the holding of elections and the electoral campaign. For the rest, the requirement of compromise, which characterized the work of the Joint Joint Committee, has led us to maintain Articles 8 and 9 adopted by the Senate, which extend until 31 July 2021 the possibility for the regions and departments to vote their primitive budget and administrative account. On my initiative, our assembly had removed these provisions, which, I am still convinced, are not justified. I regret that a text on electoral law changes, even at the margin and for a fixed period, the rules of the general code of local and regional authorities. In fact, however, the practical consequences will be very limited, with all the regional councils, like the overwhelming majority of departmental councils, having already voted their primitive budget to date. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] In the same spirit of consensus that led to the search for an agreement with our colleagues in this chamber, I hope that the text adopted by the Joint Joint Committee today will be adopted by our chamber in as broad and consensual a manner as it was in a public meeting last week.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u305	The Deputy Minister for Citizenship has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u306	The health situation is questioning the way in which our democracy is exercised and our debates in your House, as in the Senate, have made it possible, I am convinced, to offer our fellow citizens guarantees that will allow them to choose their representatives in the departmental and regional councils safely. I want to thank Parliament, in particular your rapporteur, for the quality of the work that has contributed to the development of the bill. The debates in the Law Committee, in the public sitting and in the Joint Joint Committee led to an operational text, in line with the democratic stakes of the first and second rounds of the election of the departmental councils, the regional councils, the Corsican Assembly and the assemblies of Guyana and Martinique. The Joint Joint Committee has finalized a text that takes into account the contributions of both chambers. A number of measures which Parliament was particularly keen to take will contribute to the successful holding of the June elections. First of all, it is a matter of providing Parliament with a report by 1 April on the health situation in the country and on the conditions under which the vote can be held. In this connection, I would point out that the text does not provide for an automatic re-visit clause. This issue, on which concerns have been expressed, has been raised several times during the discussions. If the elections were to be moved again, which the Government did not wish, Parliament would then be called upon to vote on a new bill. I was also appreciative of the request made by the Senate and the National Assembly to offer the possibility for each agent to have two power of attorneys. In the end, the Government agreed with the Assembly's Law Commission, since this measure will remain limited to the local elections in June and is therefore motivated by the epidemic context. The Government has also supported your rapporteur's measure on the green numbers. Access to a free green number, at the candidate's expense, will therefore be allowed for this double ballot. The candidate will be able, if he so wishes, to answer questions from the voters. A number of measures which Parliament wants will also facilitate the participation of candidates in democratic life. These include, for example, the publication of an updated guide for the candidate and the authorised representative, requested by the rapporteur, or the extension of the deadline for the submission of campaign accounts. Finally, the Government also agreed with the two chambers on the termination date for the regional advisers to be elected in June. It will take place in March 2028, not December 2027, as originally proposed in the bill. Your proposal has the advantage of re-establishing a known deadline for regional councils. The text of the Joint Joint Committee also took into account the information provided by the Government during the parliamentary debates, which I thank you for. On the long-awaited question of the dates of the double ballot, I recall the clear position I have presented here: the departmental and regional elections will be held on 13 and 20 June. As soon as the law we are considering today's final text is promulgated, the voters' notice will be signed and published. The visibility of the dates of the double ballot is necessary for voters, candidates and elected officials who currently sit in departments and regions. It was the subject of a commitment by the Government, which would therefore be respected. The Government's second commitment was to facilitate the holding of the double ballot in the context of the covid-19 epidemic. The Senate placed great emphasis on the provision of security equipment, as it had done for the municipal elections. I would remind you that the State will provide the municipalities, at its own expense, with all the necessary facilities to organise the double ballot in satisfactory sanitary conditions. As I have already indicated, various regulatory measures are planned to pool certain functions at polling stations. We have thus responded to Parliament's strong expectations and the concerns of the communes organizing the election. Let me take this opportunity to thank all the elected representatives and voters who are mobilizing at each election to hold the polling stations and participate in the counting: their commitment is necessary for the proper functioning of our democracy. Beyond the June double ballot, the debates that have taken place since the autumn on the electoral texts underline the desire to modernise the voting procedures. In both the National Assembly and the Senate, many amendments raised the question of electronic voting, voting machines or early voting. The Government heard the appeals that had been made. We will have the opportunity to respond to this in the report on the voting machines affected by the moratorium in force since 2008.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u307	What about your proposal this morning in the Senate?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u308	Some of the avenues raised are in conflict with constitutional principles. Other proposals would require technical developments which will not take place immediately. In particular, we must provide ourselves with sufficient guarantees as to the identity of the person voting. Nevertheless, the Government has heard the expectations expressed with regard to new methods of voting and is now working to meet them, ensuring, of course, that there is no risk to the validity of the vote. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, the elections of the departmental councils and the regional councils will be held on 13 and 20 June in the best possible conditions in the light of the covid-19 pandemic. This major democratic meeting will be held. I would like to thank you once again for the quality of the discussions and exchanges we have had, which have made it possible to complement the proposed mechanism in a useful way.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u309	In the general debate, Mr Luc Lamirault spoke for the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u310	Today we take note of the conclusions of the Joint Joint Committee on the draft law on the postponement, from March to June 2021, of the general renewal of the departmental councils, the regional councils and the assemblies of Corsica, Guyana and Martinique. On behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, I welcome the positive outcome of the CMP. Indeed, as Jean-Louis Debré recalled during his hearing before the Law Committee: "Let us not add to the economic crisis, to the social crisis, to the health crisis, to a political crisis. Let's hold the elections on the scheduled date. We can't limit democracy! " In intelligence with the Senate, we have worked on the drafting of a clear text, protecting our democracy and the health of our fellow citizens. I would like to commend the Government's willingness to do its utmost to maintain these elections in June and to agree to set them for 13 and 20 of the same month. This will allow existing teams and candidates to anticipate the elections as best they can. The epidemic of covid-19 has definitely changed our lives and maintaining these deadlines is a victory in the fight against the virus. The protection of voters must be a priority in the organisation of these elections. I am therefore pleased to note that the text calls for the provision of suitable equipment such as masks and hydro-alcoholic gel. For these elections to be successful, it is essential to do everything possible to reassure the health concerns of our citizens. On this point, I fully trust the mayors and their teams, who have demonstrated their professionalism in the second round of the last municipal elections. As we all know, our objective must be to combat abstention. It is the responsibility of all of us. Whatever benches we sit on, we must encourage our fellow citizens to vote. Of course, the elections of the departmental councils, regional councils and assemblies of Corsica, Guyana and Martinique are not always the most monitored, but remember that these communities influence the daily lives of the French. Maintaining dual powers of attorney will, I think, help to reduce the abstention rate. Article 6 bis of the draft law addresses the lack of awareness of the role of departmental, regional and assembly councillors in Corsica, Guyana and Martinique. Too many people are unaware of the missions of these elected officials, while they are engaged in very concrete projects to improve the daily life of our territories. A major communication campaign on public service programmes will be welcome, but we will not be able to avoid any real reflection on the reasons why our fellow citizens are not interested in these elections – the small number of Members in the Chamber this evening is unfortunately not conducive to this reflection. With regard to alternative voting methods, if we are pleased to see the request for a report on voting machines maintained, the Group would have liked it to also cover electronic voting and mail-order voting. It is essential to explore these avenues in order to be able to discuss them in the next few years.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u311	Parliament can handle this!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u312	[[Applause on the benches of the Action ens group]] In total, our group is satisfied with the bill as a whole. We hope that it will make it possible to organize the elections in the best possible conditions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u313	Mr Pascal Brindeau, for the IDU and independent group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u314	Since last March, the covid-19 pandemic has completely changed our personal and collective lives economically as well as socially. The health situation weighs heavily on the morale of our fellow citizens. The functioning of our democracy has also suffered the consequences of the pandemic. At the national level, the conditions under which Parliament sits are acceptable and ensure the democratic debate and the effectiveness of the parliamentary process. We have, however, experienced moments, especially during the first confinement, during which these conditions were, to say the least, difficult to secure. As for the local assemblies, they have also been shaken in their functioning and are still partly so. The health crisis has strongly affected the democratic process. I am thinking in particular of the municipal elections, the first round of which took place in March 2020 and the second in June. No one imagined, before the pandemic, that we could live in such a situation and that we were led to make the choices we made. As the President of the Republic has said, we must learn to live with the virus. We know better how to protect ourselves now and vaccination will affect an increasing number of French people. All these factors make us say that it would be incomprehensible that, under the pretext of the health crisis alone, the democratic process – in particular the regional and departmental elections – cannot take place. This is the meaning of the report given by Jean-Louis Debré. This is the red line we have set: yes to a postponement from March to June, but certainly not beyond that date. By virtue of bicameralism, the Joint Joint Committee has been concluded and we can welcome it. Mr rapporteur, I asked you to be open-minded enough to achieve this result: I saw, for example, that you had accepted the reinstatement of Articles 8 and 9, when you had refused to do so in the Chamber by rejecting my amendments. The main thing is the result: we can welcome the broad consensus that we have reached on this postponement, so that the elections can be held next June. If that had not been the case, we would have been collectively criticized for conducting electoral tributarys by indefinitely delaying the elections, and the fact that we are satisfied with a further postponement of the elections could have caused us to fear that the same would have been the case in future presidential or parliamentary elections. No one could have accepted this prospect and what it would have meant for our democracy, even though large democracies organized their presidential election in crisis. The Joint Joint Committee has found a balance, in particular with regard to the electoral campaign and the vote, which cannot be subject to an automatic review clause. If a possible postponement were to be considered again for health reasons, it would have to be the subject of a new parliamentary debate. Of course, we are satisfied with that. We had made a number of proposals that might have made it possible to go a little further and to facilitate the conditions for an electoral campaign that will not take place as we are used to. Candidates will not be able – or less easily – to organize door-to-door meetings and public meetings under the usual conditions. Other means must therefore be found and the dematerialization of the campaigns is part of it. [[Applause on the benches of the IDU-I group]] We understand that we are not technically ready to introduce total dematerialization of power of attorneys, but I hope that we will be so by 2022. The health situation must also be an opportunity for us to reflect on the conditions for the exercise of our democracy. Members of the IDU and independent group will of course vote for the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u315	Mr Bastien Lachaud, for the Group of the European People's Party, spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u316	The regional and departmental elections will therefore be postponed to a moment which we all hope will be more serene for democratic deliberation, in a health situation that will enable us to carry out a genuine political campaign. Indeed, and we will never repeat it enough, an election is not a mere election on polling day! The programmatic confrontation of candidates is necessary and citizens who are about to vote must be informed of the different choices available to them. Only in this way will they be able to decide in a truly free and enlightened manner. Without a campaign, a vote cannot be genuine, because citizens cannot really know the intentions of the various candidates. We hope that in June the conditions for a campaign will be better than today. However, I am concerned about the respect for the Debré report, which states that "the sincerity of the elections presupposes that the campaign that precedes them will be held, for a few months, outside of a health emergency law passed by Parliament". Indeed, we have just voted to extend the state of emergency until 1 June! Therefore, the campaign for the regional elections will take place outside the state of emergency for no more than two weeks. The text also provides for a report on the generalisation of voting machines. We are totally opposed to this idea: the vote must be protected and the sincerity of the result must be guaranteed. The vote is and must remain personal and protected from any influence: it is the whole object of the ritual that accompanies it – the insulator, the urn protected by several assessors and the publicity of the recount. With a voting machine, none of this! Results are displayed and we are asked to believe them. But what is the purpose of this report on voting machines? The text asks for a report, but this very morning the Government tabled in the Senate an amendment to the draft organic law on the election of the President of the Republic, in order to open the possibility of an advance vote for this election, using voting machines!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u317	Surreal!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u318	That would be possible for a week before the election! And this idea, coming out of the government hat at the last minute, has been nowhere and by no one the subject of a deliberation! In front of our assembly, the subject was not even raised during the examination of the same text: we were then told of a simple technical text aimed at resuming the evolution of the electoral code since 2017, without any question of touching the general elements of the election. Our amendments on the subject were even rejected without debate on the pretext that they were out of the question. I'm warning about a future democratic scandal! In one week, two of our hospitals were hacked, which paralyzed our health care system and hindered the vaccination campaign. We are not even able to protect these institutions, which are so essential in times of pandemics, against intrusions, but we are told that we will be able to do so for all the voting machines in the country! We are being rebuffed with fear of Russian interference in the elections, but the results of our elections are voluntarily handed over to the skill of hackers! This is ridiculous! Paper ballots, ballot boxes and public counting are neither time nor money lost: it is a guarantee of popular control over the sincerity of the election. To give it up is to give up a little more on the possibility of restoring confidence to the citizens in the institutional system, when this confidence is already almost lost. The presidential election would be in the hands of hackers! Your project is the systematic destruction of what remains of democracy.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u319	Anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u320	What keeps the French people away from the ballot box is not the material impossibility of going there, it is the profound certainty, confirmed after year after year, election after election, that all this is only a masquerade with a democratic appearance, which has as its sole purpose to endorse decisions that will not change anything. Our democracy is sick. Our democracy is deeply damaged. Since the defeat of the Treaty of Lisbon, rejected by referendum but imposed a few years later by a vote of Parliament flouting popular sovereignty, how can we have confidence? Instead of aggravating evil, it must be resolved. France has for years proposed the convening of a National Constituent Assembly, which would work in parallel with the institutions to give our country a new constitution, a constitution written by and for the people instead of this vermoluous and rafistole constitution, the guardian of institutions deserted by the people. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group. – Mr. Pacôme Rupin exclaims]] Due to the Government's action on the draft organic law on the election of the President of the Republic, this morning in the Senate, the group La France insoumise will vote against this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u321	Mr Paul Molac has the floor for the Libertés et territoires Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u322	Rather, it augurs well that the CMP was conclusive. Indeed, on an issue as important as that of elections – in particular regional and departmental ones – reaching a broad consensus among all political forces – or almost – is an excellent thing. Our group supported this text at first reading and it is logical that we will do the same today. We thus demonstrate that we are able to agree and move forward together: it is essential to me, since the legislative power is, in my view, as important as the executive. The fact that Parliament is able to reach an agreement shows that we can be a force for proposals and sometimes even a counter-power. I am therefore among those who attach particular importance to the fact that these elections can take place. Democratic breathing and the confrontation of ideas – albeit a little lively, sometimes – are an integral part of our democracy. The expression of ideas, including those we reject or do not accept, is part of our freedoms. This ideal we have in common – being able to express ourselves – needs to be framed. The pandemic still played us a bad turn, especially at the beginning when we did not know how to cure the disease, but we are gradually gaining in efficiency. I note that we have not been obliged to re-establish, which is an excellent thing for me. Certainly, no one can predict when the return to normal will take place, but democracy must continue to exist. We have witnessed presidential elections in the United States and Portugal, and other elections have taken place in Ecuador, Kosovo and, most recently, Catalonia, a region that is very affected by the pandemic. I am observing what is happening in the other countries of Europe and I think we should sometimes be inspired by it. In Catalonia people tested positive and contact cases are invited to come between 7 p.m. and 8 p.m. to assessors equipped to receive them – so as not to catch the covid-19 – so that they can still vote. This is an interesting example that we could draw on. In the Catalan regional election, the turnout exceeded 50% – a very satisfactory rate in the context of a pandemic, especially when compared to those sometimes observed in our own territorial elections – some did not exceed 30%. Similarly, we welcome the possibility for each proxy to have two power of attorneys in these elections: it is a way for us to maximize access to democracy in a particular context. On the other hand, we regret that the text of the CMP does not retain the senators' proposal on the institution of audiovisual clips. It'll be another time! We will certainly come back to that. You mentioned the regionalisation of France 3, which should be based in particular on information: this is a very interesting measure which is very expected in the regions. In Brittany, the most closely followed newspaper is precisely the regional newspaper. We are also satisfied with Article 2a, which is the result of one of our amendments, and I thank you, my rapporteur, for quoting me earlier in this regard. The current online guide for the candidate and representative must be reviewed for upcoming elections. [[Mr Remi Rebeyrotte, rapporteur, applauded]] Of course, it is a technical text, but it will allow us to vote next June in satisfactory security conditions. We will have to adjust the modalities of the elections, because I think we can still improve them compared to what was done at the municipal level – in particular, we will have to make sure that we organise two rounds one after the other and not stop in the middle of the ford. The Liberties and Territories Group will obviously vote on the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u323	Mr Sebastien Jumel, for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u324	Everyone agrees that in view of the health situation we are experiencing, it was not possible to hold the elections in the departmental and regional elections in March. There is also agreement that the timetable for the June elections seems to be the most reasonable solution to reconcile democratic imperatives with health imperatives. If some had imagined pushing this democratic rendezvous beyond the presidential election – it's probably those who put forward an amendment out of I don't know where to propose an advance vote in the presidential election – it's happy that this position didn't last long. Arbitrator Jean-Louis Debré quickly demonstrated that such a postponement would have constituted a dangerous attack on democracy, which would have placed it for a long time in the containment chamber. Let us salute in passing Jean-Louis Debré's ability to hold the course against winds and tides: in his report, the wise man did not yield to the pressures of the Elysée or I do not know who. He did not give in to the temptation to postpone the deadline to the "after day" of the presidential election, as the President of the Republic wanted, desiring to escape the electoral slamming that I promised you at first reading. In democracy, there comes a time when the state of health emergency stops, when the people fully regain their rights, including in a period of epidemics like the one we are going through. While we must not despair the economy during the period of covid-19, we must not despair democracy and culture, that is to say everything that is essential beyond liberal appearances. For almost a year now, we have repeatedly denounced Parliament's bells and the reduction of the prerogatives of the parliamentarians we are. All the tools have been good to limit political speech and democratic debate – ordinance, health emergency regime – and this has not been effective. We are therefore fully satisfied with the text adopted by the Joint Joint Committee, which reaffirms that democracy cannot remain in the attic any longer. Moreover, it is not necessary to allow the President of the Republic any longer the solitary exercise of power. The people will therefore be able to vote. In our territories, many are in a hurry to do so in order to send you various messages in the ballot box. They want to tell you, for example, that the wrong pension reform, which we have pushed back through the door, is not meant to come back through the window or the backyard. To you and to the regional majorities who apply under another label the same policies – liberal, technocratic and vertical, far from the real life of the French – they mean our desire for something else. We want a republic and regions that take care of the health needs of the population and the hospital, that do not turn away from the rural world, small municipalities and medium-sized cities to concentrate everything – public services, industries and training offers – in the metropolises. We want a republic and regions that do not forget those who live on the steps of the kingdom, away from the metropolises, away from the eyes, but who think of those who live on both sides of the river, upstream and downstream. We want them not to forget, in their plans on rail transport, the lines of life that irrigate the territories, far from the main axes. Thinking of my Normandy and the future of this fishing which is the sap of our coast, I also want them not to forget to support the trans-manche links. We want them not to forget to think of the region as a territory to be set up everywhere and for all, and not just as a window community that distributes Europe's money, thinks it is a state that it is not and negotiates a plan contract in the middle of the campaign for the regions, even before the election takes place. We want them not to forget to repair the damaged elevator of the school of the Republic, by investing massively in high schools and higher education, as our universities fall into tatters and the younger generation is sacrificed and needs to be at his side, at his bedside.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u325	You're already in the country!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u326	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] We want a republic and regions that put the package on research programmes to stop the brain drain, and that invest more massively in the means and infrastructure to meet the challenges of mobility and global warming. We look forward to discussing these needs and emergencies. That is why we will vote for this text so that the departmental and regional elections will take place next June.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u327	Mr Pacôme Rupin has the floor for the La République group on the move.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u328	In this context of a health crisis, it was important to seek and obtain a consensus position from the various political families and from the two chambers of Parliament on what is the basis of our democracy: the holding of electoral campaigns, the organisation and the modalities of elections. The Senate and the majority in the National Assembly agreed that the regional and departmental elections should be held in June, and that we should organize ourselves collectively with this in mind. From the first reading of the text in the Assembly, the minister delegate told us that these elections would take place on 13 and 20 June.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u329	That's a good thing!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u330	This announcement, which we welcome, puts an end to the uncertainty both for the candidates – who thus have more visibility to organise their campaign – and for our fellow citizens. We welcome the adoption by the CMP of the provisions adopted by the Assembly: the duration of election campaigns is increased to three weeks; candidates will be able to have free telephone numbers where electors will be able to contact them to find out about their program. An agreement was also reached on the terms of article 2 of the draft law: on 1 April 2021, the Government will submit to Parliament a report drawn up on the basis of the work of the scientific council and concerning the state of the covid -19 epidemic, the health risks to be taken into account, and the necessary adaptations to the conduct of elections and election campaigns. Like honourable senators, we did not want these provisions to be subject to an automatic re-visit clause. I can confirm that this is not the case and that we can therefore be satisfied. However, Madam Minister Delegate, I would like to take this opportunity to express my surprise at the Government's willingness to create, by way of an amendment to the draft organic law on the election of the President of the Republic, a system of advance voting for the presidential election of 2022.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u331	If even Pacôme Rupin thinks he's surprised!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u332	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] We continue to believe that, while important developments in voting procedures are desirable – knowing that they are not always so – they must be dealt with in a law on all elections. It was this bias that led the La République group on the move to postpone changes that were too important for these regional and departmental elections. For us, the sincerity of the vote is a priority.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u333	The next speaker is Mr Raphaël Schellenberger, for the Republican Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u334	Our group will vote in favour of this text aimed at finalizing the staggered organisation of the departmental and regional elections in June this year. During the debates, we discussed the different assumptions and regretted that the elections did not take place on the usual dates. We now consider that the dates of 13 and 20 June, announced at the meeting by the Deputy Minister, are a satisfactory compromise for the functioning of our local democracy. This issue of timing was one of the main points of exchange and debate during the parliamentary shuttle. While the Senate had adopted a specific deadline, as part of a public announcement before the national representation, the Deputy Minister undertook to issue, as soon as the law was enacted, a decree setting the elections for June 13 and 20. This compromise is all the more satisfactory because these two dates are in the only possible shooting window, because the following week is dedicated to the organisation of school time, and since, in the current state of law, a postponement beyond June would require the adoption of a new text. It is a matter of securing the organisation and convening of elections. However, we remain vigilant on one point that we have also discussed: the risk that there will be three elections on the same Sunday in some territories. I have the weakness to think that our debates in this House are not unrelated to the fact that the Ministry of the Interior has recently organised the convening of by-elections, particularly in the Pas-de-Calais region. Another subject of debate: the dual powers of attorney, which have been in use since the beginning of the health crisis, have been reintroduced by the Senate and accepted into the Joint Joint Committee, which is a reason for our satisfaction. On the other hand, we are disappointed that the Senate's proposal on the deterritorialization of power of attorney has not prospered. We are all the more so since, like the speaker from the running Republic Group, we are surprised at the Government's willingness to allow an advance vote in the forthcoming presidential election. We certainly understood that the technique was progressing and that what was not yet possible at the time of the local elections could be done in the presidential election. However, I am not sure that it is the best opportunity to test the evolution of voting methods, especially when it comes to things as sensitive as the anticipation of voting and the control of voters by machines, while our polling stations operate on paper mailing lists. In any case, there are many questions, and now, one year before the presidential election, we are about to push ahead with the use and modalities of voting in France. Without being opposed to any development, we believe that we should not do so one year before the vote. As for the effectiveness of the campaign account from March – the date on which the election should have taken place – and the 20% increase in the spending ceiling – which is, in a way, the corollary – we are satisfied with that. This text also includes some technical adjustments. As rapporteur for the implementation of the law on the competences of the European Community of Alsace, I cannot be dissatisfied with the extension of the ordinances. We regret, however, that the lists cannot broadcast clips on regional television channels and thus mobilize all means of communication to adapt the policy to the health crisis, as companies have been able to do. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Last but not least, the Joint Joint Committee has been assured that the report due in April will only deal with the arrangements for the organisation of the vote. The Republican Group will therefore be able to vote in favour of this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u335	Mr Vincent Bru, for the Group of the European Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u336	During his hearing before the Law Commission, the former President of the National Assembly and the Constitutional Council, Jean-Louis Debré, said: "We must not add to the economic, social and health crisis, a political crisis. It is for this reason that the departmental and regional elections are due to take place next June. The positive outcome of the Joint Joint Committee's work shows that Jean-Louis Debré's position has brought us together more than divided. Our group can only welcome the consensus that has emerged in both of our houses on this bill. Indeed, we must be able to agree on electoral matters, in order to guarantee the vitality of our democracy. In fact, my colleague Élodie Jacquier-Laforge echoed Jean-Louis Debré's words during the debate on the bill at the sitting on February 9th: "Democracy is not limited. » This consensus of the Joint Joint Committee demonstrates the parties' common will to promote democracy. The postponement of the next elections within a reasonable time – in June – is in line with this objective. Our group welcomes the fact that the Government, through the words of the delegate minister here, has made the dates very clear: on 13 and 20 June. This announcement is reassuring both for voters, who are primarily interested in the electoral life of our territories, and for the communities that need to organize these deadlines. The Joint Joint Committee agreed to retain much of the relevant input from the Senate and the National Assembly, with the agreement of the rapporteur Rémy Rebeyrotte. It had also clarified article 2, which provided that the Government would submit to Parliament a report on the health situation. This report will in no way delay the elections: as the rapporteur pointed out earlier, the article does not constitute a re-visit clause. Our group regrets, of course, that its amendments have been declared inadmissible or rejected. In particular, I am thinking of the experiment with the white vote, which carries an electoral message in its own right, which differs in this sense from the zero vote, but also from the distance, by correspondence or by electronic means. We believed that this experiment was necessary in the current context of a health crisis, an opportunity to practice a life-size test. As the deterritorialization of power of attorneys was withdrawn from the text, we also tabled an amendment to the effect that, for the renewal of departmental and regional councillors, the representative could be registered in the same department or region as the principal. These were, we believe, common sense amendments in the light of the health situation. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem and LaREM groups]] However, we welcome the consensus reached in the Joint Joint Committee and, above all, the fact that these elections will be held in June. That is why the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats will vote in favour of the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u337	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u338	We are again considering the bill postponing the regional and departmental elections from March to June 2021. My point will be brief. I would like to recall three elements: first, the meaning of the text in the current context; then, the enrichment of the project by several provisions aimed, inter alia, at health security; Finally, the measures to be considered to encourage electoral participation and ultimately establish the legitimacy of elected officials in the context of a health crisis.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u339	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u340	The text we are discussing is the one adopted by the Joint Joint Committee, which agreed to postpone the regional and departmental elections from March to June next. Our honourable senators have accepted this three-month extension provided that there is no new one; It was also the position of the members of the Socialist and Related Group. Against the Government's initial opinion, the Senate had adopted an amendment to the effect that the second round would take place no later than 20 June, and we welcome the fact that the dates of 13 and 20 June have been retained by the Government. Behind the deadline for local elections is another, more comprehensive issue. Everyone understood that the urgency we found ourselves in in March 2020 – a sudden event that threatened lives – required exceptional measures, leading to the suspension of certain individual and collective freedoms, and certain principles that characterize our country. But, as has been pointed out, the urgency is by definition temporary and cannot last. This is a time when initial emergency measures can no longer be extended: they cannot remain what they were at the time of the occurrence and must evolve. We have an obligation to anticipate and control and, in the meantime, to validate what has been planned. We have to invent a democracy of bad health weather, by seeking a balance between public health imperatives and other emergencies, among other things the democratic urgency that the departmental and regional elections so well embody. We cannot let the pandemic decide for the French and French; We cannot let democracy depend on the vagaries of a crisis with which we may have to live, perhaps, for a long time. In our country, the source of power is universal suffrage, which must be consulted on a regular basis. We must stand by the deadline of June, which requires very strict health precautions. Additional guarantees have been made by way of amendments: it will be up to the state to provide protective equipment – masks, visors or plexiglas walls – to the communes, as for the second round of the last municipal elections. This postponement of departmental and regional elections will also be used to organize an official radio and television campaign and to facilitate the establishment of power of attorneys for sick or vulnerable people. Each elector will be able to have two power of attorneys, against only one today. He will be able to vote on behalf of two people who are fragile or prevented, which will prevent them from having to travel to the polling station. This deadline will also make it possible to work to convince our fellow citizens of the importance of this election for everyday life: the departments have responsibilities for social action, the regions have competence in the field of transport and the economy, the first and the second manage respectively the colleges and the high schools. This is an opportunity to show that democracy is exercised in proximity and that our departmental and regional elected officials fulfil an important mission, which is crucial for all.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u341	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u342	I would also like to point out that, at the initiative of our colleague Jean-Pierre Sueur, the Senate adopted an amendment to provide a better framework for opinion polls for the upcoming regional and departmental elections. Thus, for greater transparency, survey institutes and the media will need to specify the margin of error of each published survey. It is important to show that voters have the choice in their hands and that the instant image taken at a given time does not in any way determine the result of the election. [[Mr. Guillaume Garot applauds]] Our group will support this bill while, as we have pointed out, we want to open the debate on a modern democracy and on how to change the voting process to ensure that citizens participate differently.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u343	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u344	I put the bill to the vote, given the text of the Joint Joint Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u345	Madam President, I wish to make a point of order!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u346	On the basis of what article? I hope that this is a point of order on form and not on substance. I will not give you the floor for an explanation of vote after the vote!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u347	I wanted to make this point of order, concerning the clarity of our debates, before the vote. Several speakers spoke on the question of voting machines and advance voting...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u348	No, Mr. Lachaud, you're intervening on the merits. I can't give you the floor. This is not a point of order on form.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u349	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u350	Absolutely not! You did not give me the basis of the point of order and you intervene on the merits. That's not possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u351	The next item is the continuation of the discussion of the bill to strengthen occupational health prevention (No 3718, 3881).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u352	Last night, the Assembly continued its discussion of the articles of the bill, ending with Article 9. I'm suspending the session as long as the teams settle down.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u353	Mrs Valérie Six has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u354	I would like to welcome both Article 9 and Article 10, both of which respond to a very strong demand from companies which sometimes complained about the opacity of tariffs. The fact that the multi-year contract of objectives and means is made public contributes to confidence between the prevention service and the employer.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u355	Mrs Anne-Laurence Petel has the floor to support Amendment No. 8.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u356	The amendment, proposed in connection with the Federation of Clean-up Enterprises, aims to include in the law the method of calculating the contribution due by employers when they join a multi-employer occupational health service. The aim is to ensure that all occupational health services comply with the charging rules imposed by the case law and the Labour Code, i.e. a per capita calculation by counting the number of employees FTEs – full-time equivalents – and not according to the company's wage bill, in order to integrate part-time employees. The Court of Cassation confirmed this position. The department's departments have undertaken harmonization work, but we felt it was important to include this rule in the legislation so that it would be respected by all.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u357	Mrs Parmentier-Lecocq, rapporteur of the Committee on Social Affairs, has the floor to give the Committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u358	You highlight one particularly important point, which is one of the concerns of this text: to ensure greater transparency and visibility on the rates for occupational health services contributions. As you have pointed out, the Court of Cassation has already admitted the possibility of a weighting factor according to the number of employees in need of enhanced medical care, and has held that the calculation proportional to the number of employees should be understood as a distribution per employee FTE. The current principle of fixing contributions provides for the modulations that you call your wishes, so your proposal is already covered by the legislation. The text in no way alters these balances, which have also not been changed by the social partners. There is, on the other hand, a lack of application of these rules, but thanks to all of our approaches and the transparent and legible procedure for fees for occupational health services, we will move forward on this point. Since your amendment is satisfied, I will ask you to withdraw it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u359	The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Pensions and Occupational Health, to give the Government's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u360	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u361	Mrs Fiat, on what basis do you wish to make a point of order?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u362	On the basis of the first paragraph of Article 59 of the Regulation. The subject we are discussing seems to me to be very important. However, this afternoon we have just discussed another text and tomorrow a motion for a resolution is on the agenda. Without wanting to diminish the importance of other legislation, I find it a pity that the consideration of the bill to strengthen occupational health prevention is being cut off by a number of other debates. Reflection on a topic such as occupational health does not have to be interrupted by further discussions: this organization undermines our work and undermines the clarity of the debate. Although I disagree with their conclusions, the rapporteurs have worked extensively. Seeing the text intersected by several other subjects does not give the impression that occupational health is given the importance it deserves, since the ideal conditions for examining it are not created.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u363	Mrs Marie-Christine Dalloz has the floor to support Amendment No. 99.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u364	I would like to have the same certainty as Ms. Six on section 9. I am not convinced that it will clarify the concept of company pricing in the context of occupational health. My amendment proposes that a joint order between the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Labour should establish a benchmark, a tariff schedule, as the basis for the discussion. I want the State to be the regulator in this register and the bodies to decide on a tariff within the framework of this benchmark, within the board of directors; Otherwise, disparities may increase rather than narrow. I understand your will, but I am not sure that the measures in Article 9 will achieve your objective.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u365	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u366	You stress the importance of better supervision and monitoring of rates for occupational health services. It is true that contributions can sometimes range from 70 to 130 euros without being really justified. We fully share this finding. But, since they are private law structures, they can set their tariffs freely. Legally, this principle cannot be contradicted. That is why we followed the social partners, who proposed that tariffs be set in a clearer, more transparent way. We have also set a guideline on tariff developments which must not exceed a certain quota of the evolution of the tariffs of the national average, which will allow the small modulations existing according to the territories to be included within a range. I believe that we have found a good balance with the social partners. Amendments will be proposed on the place of the General Assembly in setting these tariffs, which will provide even more answers in line with your expectations. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u367	I have before me eight amendments, Nos 300, 367, 406, 451, 510, 246, 314 and 355 which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 300, 367, 406, 451 and 510 are identical, as are Amendments Nos 314 and 355. I call Mrs Michèle de Vaucouleurs to support Amendment No. 300.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u368	This amendment restores the power of the general meeting to approve the amount of contributions and the rate schedule provided for in this section. It retains the substitution of the concept of amount to that of scale adopted by the Committee on Social Affairs on the basis of the recommendations of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u369	Mr Bernard Bouley has the floor to support Amendment No. 367.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u370	This amendment follows the terms of the National Interprofessional Agreement – ANI – of 9 December 2020, which expressly refers to the General Assembly a role of financial control and approval of the amount of contributions. This order of decisions meets the requirements of the Associations Act, 1901.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u371	Amendments Nos 406 by Mrs Véronique Louwagie, 451 by Mr Richard Ramos, 510 by Mr Gérard Cherpion and 246 by Mr Bernard Bouley are being defended. Mr Paul Christophe has the floor to support Amendment No. 314.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u372	The purpose of this amendment is to leave to the general meeting of the participating undertakings, ultimately responsible for the means used within the inter-company occupational health and prevention services to fulfil their obligations with regard to prevention and health at work, the possibility of freely deciding how to approve the amount of contributions and the rates for supplementary services.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u373	Mrs Danielle Brulebois has the floor to support Amendment No. 355.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u374	It seems logical to leave to the general meeting of the participating undertakings the possibility of deciding freely on the arrangements for approving the amount of contributions and not only to be informed of them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u375	What is the committee's opinion on these eight amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u376	The committee supports the five identical amendments and calls for the following three to be withdrawn. In fact, the identical amendments Nos 300, 367, 406, 451 and 510 are very much in line with the expectations of the Members who tabled them, that is to say, to restore to the General Assembly its sovereignty over the setting of tariffs. This is a subject that we discussed in committee: we need to find an effective way to move faster by giving the board the keys. It is true that it is wiser for the general meeting to take these decisions, which will allow members and, therefore, companies to look more closely at tariffs.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u377	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u378	Same opinion. The Government calls for the withdrawal of Amendments Nos. 246, 314 and 355 in favour of identical Amendments Nos. 300, 367, 406, 451 and 510.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u379	I have before me two amendments, Nos 209 and 79, which can be discussed jointly. Amendment No 209 by Mr Dino Cinieri is being defended. I call Mrs Emmanuelle Anthoine to support Amendment No. 79.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u380	This amendment proposes that the scale of contributions and the tariff schedule be fixed according to a specification approved by a joint order of the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u381	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u382	These are the same amendments as those tabled earlier by Mrs Dalloz. Same unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u383	I call Mrs Michèle de Vaucouleurs to support Amendment No. 397.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u384	By derogating from the provisions of Article L. 4622-6 of the Labour Code, it aims to maintain the current arrangements for financing health services at work between agricultural enterprises which make it possible to finance preventive and occupational health measures for very small enterprises, the majority of which are in the agricultural sector. The trade union and professional organisations representing the national agricultural sector have confirmed their commitment to this mutualisation of financing between agricultural enterprises. In addition, the amendment adds to Article L. 717-2-1 of the Rural and Maritime Code the arrangements for charging for the supply of complementary services which could, where appropriate, be proposed by the preventive and health services at work in agriculture. Its financial management is entrusted to the Central Fund of the Agricultural Social Mutuality in accordance with the terms and conditions laid down by the Rural Code and the Maritime Fisheries Code.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u385	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u386	Thank you, Mr Turquois and colleagues in the Dem Group, for proposing this amendment, since we did not initially take account of the whole agricultural sector. With this amendment, we can apply the entire dimension of the bill to the agricultural sector while adapting it. That is the subject of your amendment. Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u387	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Anthoine to support Amendment No. 80.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u388	This amendment is intended to supplement Article 10(6). Interoperability of computer software is an essential lever not only for regulating but also for promoting the efficiency of services at the national level. However, the magnitude of the task requires that only a national focal point, both for the transformation and modernization of the IT systems of inter-firm occupational health and prevention services, established by joint decree of the Minister of Labour and the Minister of Health, be able to determine the priorities to be met.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u389	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u390	Opinion against this amendment which envisages the interoperability of systems in occupational health services projects. Indeed, it is difficult to imagine that each occupational health service envisages interoperability with others. Occupational health services are already engaged in efforts to reconcile the information systems they are sharing, in order to achieve the goal you are pursuing.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u391	Mrs Jeanine Dubie has the floor to support Amendment No. 126.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u392	The purpose of this amendment is to delete, at the end of paragraph 7, the word "mandatory" after the words "the core set of services" so as to take into account the recommendations of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u393	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u394	Nothing escapes you in the drafting of this text, Mrs Dubie! Thank you for your effort in writing. Favourable opinion of the committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u395	Mrs Gisèle Biémouret has the floor to support Amendment No. 146.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u396	This amendment provides for the addition of the history of financial reports to the documents to be disclosed and made public. The aim is to increase transparency on the finances of health services with a view to improving the occupational health system as a whole. To this end, the social partners have provided in the ANI on occupational health that the certification of occupational health and prevention services should include transparency of the financial flows of services. This amendment was suggested to us by the CFE-CGC.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u397	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u398	I ask that this amendment be withdrawn. Failing that, unfavorable notice. A major effort is being made to ensure transparency among occupational health services, which will come into force once the law is enacted, but it is not retroactive. There will be, then, this transparency that you wish for all the activity reports.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u399	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u400	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u401	Mrs Gisèle Biémouret has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u402	I withdraw that amendment. I will also withdraw Amendment No 141.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u403	I have before me two amendments, Nos 141 and 125, which can be discussed jointly. Amendment No 141 by Mrs Gisèle Biémouret was withdrawn.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u404	Mrs Jeanine Dubie has the floor to support Amendment No. 125.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u405	The national interprofessional agreement of 9 December 2020 defines the transparency of the financial flows of services as a criterion for the certification of occupational health and prevention services. In order to increase transparency on the financing of services and to improve the overall health system at work, this amendment provides for the addition of the financial report to the documents to be communicated and made public by the occupational health prevention services.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u406	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u407	Your amendment is satisfactory because the activity report that we are asking to publish contains the financial elements. I would therefore ask you to withdraw your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u408	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-16-O1172.u409	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one hours: Follow-up to the bill to strengthen occupational health prevention. The meeting is adjourned.
