ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u1	The next item is the discussion, under the simplified procedure, under Rule 103 of the Rules of Procedure, of the bill adopted by the Senate to appoint children born without life (No. 4241, 4692).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u2	Pursuant to Rule 107 of the Rules of Procedure, I now call, in the text of the committee, the single article of the bill and the related amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u3	Mrs Huguette Tiegna has the floor to support Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u4	Losing a child is a painful event for millions of women, men and families. If the ways of assuming such a loss are singular, since that happened to me, recently, I know that this life that has developed within us and that has not come to an end is always part of us and, in a way, of our family, because during the period of mourning, we need to hang on to something. The attachment of families, however, has no official recognition, since this child born without a life is not included in the family booklet. This official document submitted at the birth of the first child or at the time of marriage presents extracts from civil status documents of family members. It must be updated on the occasion of any event occurring after its release, such as the marriage of the parents, a birth, an adoption, a divorce, or the death of one of the family members. Yet, for many newborns who died during the perinatal period and for their parents, everything disappears, as if there had been no child. The woman has not given birth, she is not a mother, she leaves maternity with a medical certificate of late abortion. This bill will give a name and surname to these lost children, to these unfinished lives, because they are not currently registered in the civil registry or in the family booklet. Parents who wish to do so can only exceptionally bury their children, give them a grave and perform funeral rites. There is no tangible trace of its existence, however short it may be. Whether the pregnancy ends before the third trimester or at its end, it is always the same penalty for the parents – I know that. In addition to the trauma of perinatal death, there is also the trauma of the lack of civil and social recognition of their deceased child and, consequently, of the lack of recognition of their pain. Mr Keeper of the Seals, this appeal amendment is intended to remind us that the act of a lifeless child must be carried on the family booklet, in order to recognize the deceased child civilly and socially. At the request of the parents, the family booklet may therefore be completed with the name of the child born without life. In fact, the child's registration in the family booklet will be symbolic of his or her belonging to the family.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u5	Mrs Béatrice Descamps, rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, gave the opinion of the Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u6	As the summary statement indicates, the amendment before us is an appeal amendment. So you won't be surprised if I ask for it to be withdrawn. Thank you, Mrs Tiegna, because this amendment allows me to clarify a question raised in committee, that of the immediate application of the law. The bill that we will pass – I hope – unanimously will make it possible to name children born without life and thereby comfort families facing this painful experience. It enshrines in the law the possibility of giving a first name to a lifeless child and goes further than the existing practice, allowing a name to be given to that child, which is an important step forward. I confirm that all families will be able to benefit from it in accordance with the principle of immediate application of the law. Of course, this possibility of naming children born without life will apply when the birth occurs after the publication of the law, but it will also apply to all previous births. Parents may request the establishment of a lifeless child's act and a family name, or they may add a family name if they already have such an act. We thus provide a human response to all the families who have experienced this ordeal. We must respond quickly. The withdrawal of this amendment, if you accept it, will enable this bill to be implemented as quickly as possible by a proper vote. I'll finish by thanking you, Mr. Keeper of the Seals. Your presence in this House demonstrates the importance you attach to this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u7	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u8	[[Applause on the benches of the UDI-I, LaREM and Dem groups]] I thank all the members of the House of Commons and senators who have been involved in the review of this bill, starting with Anne-Catherine Loisier, the author of this bill, as well as the Government and the administration for the legal analysis of the provisions of this bill. I finally thank all the people I auditioned.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u9	Mr. Custody of the Seals, Minister of Justice, has the floor to give the Government's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u10	When humanism embraces common sense, their union often gives rise to good texts. I am proud to be with you today to support this text and to remind you that the child born without life is not nothing. It belongs to the family. What name are we going to give him? How will we decorate this desired child's room? Which fabric to choose for its cradle? Then it's the drama. And we'd like to see nothing after this drama? This child must bear a first name, and a last name, an unwavering sign of his or her belonging to the family unit. He will of course be remembered by the parents, brothers and sisters who were waiting for him. His name must be written in full in the family booklet. You propose to complete article 79-1 of the Civil Code to indicate that the act of a lifeless child will now be carried on the family book. Here I want to thank Senator Anne-Catherine Loisier, the president of the Union centriste Hervé Marseille group, but also you, of course, the rapporteur, as well as the president of the IDU and independent Jean-Christophe Lagarde group, for having this text on the agenda of your niche. I would also like to thank very warmly the parliamentarians of the majority who have been particularly sensitive to this text, which should allow it to be adopted in a few moments and therefore, as you pointed out, the rapporteur, her very forthcoming entry into force. I therefore thank Mrs Coralie Dubost, Mr Gouffier-Cha, and you, of course, Mrs Tiegna. With this appeal amendment, you give me the opportunity to say a few words. I would like to reiterate to this assembly a warm thought for all these families affected by the pain of a child's loss. The test is immense and it deserves our full attention. As I said in the Senate, I am convinced of the need to admit to the civil code the inclusion of a memorial to ease this long-denied suffering. A family name must be given to children born without life in order not to add oblivion to the unbearable tragedy. I would remind you that in addition to the 740,000 births of live children registered in 2020, 8747 acts of lifeless children have been recorded: 8747 families have been upset by this tragedy. I hear your willingness to ensure the correct interpretation of the law and the effective rights of parents to have the acts of a lifeless child and family booklets supplemented to add the name chosen for the child. I share this will, believe me. In order to answer the questions that may have arisen about the immediate application of the new law, I must stress that this possibility of appointing the child in the acts of a lifeless child will also be opened for acts already drawn up which can thus be supplemented. I would like to reassure you, honourable Member, if there is still a need to do so, by telling you that the registration of the act of a lifeless child in the family booklet is well planned. However, you know that the family libretto regime is laid down by a decree of 15 May 1974 and by an order of 1 June 2006 and not by the civil code. It will therefore be provided by decree that, at the request of the parents, the booklet will be completed or issued. The act of a lifeless child will therefore be mentioned in the family booklet with the date, the place of delivery, as well as the registration of the surnames of the parents, the first name of the child and, tomorrow, thanks to this very important bill, his name – I should say his last name. You have the assurance that these regulations will be supplemented to draw the consequences of this bill. I am also committed to ensuring that these new regulations are widely disseminated to support families affected by this deep mourning. They will also be able to request the addition of the last name on the family booklet already prepared, as I said. For all these reasons, I invite you to withdraw your amendment in order to be able to adopt this bill in accordance with it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u11	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u12	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Mr President, I would simply like to point out, as you have said, that the opposition, on all the benches, I think, of this House, as in the Committee on Laws, has supported this text and will vote on it. Since you have only spoken of the majority, you see me obliged to remind you that the oppositions also participate in this salutary action of the IDU and independent group whose initiative I welcome.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u13	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u14	I thought I had paid tribute to Jean-Christophe Lagarde.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u15	Mrs Huguette Tiegna has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u16	Mr. Keeper of the Seals, I would like to thank you for the commitment you have made. This bill has great added value as it grows in us, as it grows in humanity. On this sensitive issue, this bill will reduce the sentence for many families. It will therefore be possible to enter the surname and first name of the child who died before the end of the term in the family booklet, and I thank you for that. For all the reasons you have put forward, I shall withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u17	Thank you, Mrs. Tiegna.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u18	I put to the vote the single clause in the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u19	The next item is the discussion, under the simplified procedure, pursuant to Rule 103 of the Rules of Procedure, of the bill adopted by the Senate for the establishment of a cybersecurity certification of digital platforms for the general public (No. 3473, 4700).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u20	Pursuant to Rule 107 of the Rules of Procedure, I will only call for the amendments and the articles to which these amendments relate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u21	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 8 and 13. The rapporteur of the Committee on Economic Affairs has the floor to support Amendment No. 8.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u22	It is simply a matter of defining which companies will be subject to this new cyberscore. We do not want a system that is too restrictive or too costly for some companies, especially for small start-ups that are just starting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u23	Mrs Huguette Tiegna has the floor to support Amendment No. 13.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u24	This amendment, also tabled by the Group of the European People's Party, has been very well defended by the rapporteur: it is a matter of improving the legibility of the draft law and making it more easily applicable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u25	I call on the Secretary of State for Digital Transition and Electronic Communications to give the Government's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u26	Both amendments are intended to refer to a decree the definition of the activity threshold from which online platforms will be affected by the cybersecurity obligation provided for in this text. The current wording of the bill refers to Article L. 111-7-1 of the Consumer Code, which concerns operators of online platforms whose activity exceeds a threshold of 5 million unique visitors per month. However, as the rapporteur has pointed out, the complexity of the mechanism we are looking at requires us to untie this threshold established in 2017 and aimed at different objectives. The Government also endorses the use of the term "audit", which is better suited than "certification" to characterize cybersecurity information to be published to the general public. Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u27	Ladies and gentlemen, for the good information of all, I would remind you that in the simplified examination procedure, we can only speak on the amendments, in addition to the rapporteur and the Government, one of the authors of the amendments and, if necessary, one speaker to speak against these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u28	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 3.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u29	I regret that our colleague Philippe Latomb, who is the first signatory, is not here to defend this interesting amendment. We worked together, and I would have liked to greet him and thank him. The aim is to enshrine in the law that the location of hosted data is an integral part of the diagnosis of cybersecurity. Even if some things go without saying, it's always better by saying them... Localization may be one of the future criteria examined by the audit, but Philippe Latomb and I feel it is best to clarify this.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u30	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u31	I understand the intention: to ensure better data protection and, beyond that, to strengthen our sovereignty. But I want to point out that information on the physical location of the data is insufficient to achieve this objective. The fact that data belonging to a French citizen are located in French territory does not protect them if they are entrusted to an actor whose data centre is managed from abroad. To inform the citizen of the place where his data is stored, as the amendment provides, risks in my view creating an illusory security. This could be counterproductive: our fellow citizens could plebiscite services provided by foreign actors, wrongly thinking that the protection is the same as that of a European supplier. The Government therefore requests the withdrawal of this amendment; If not, it will be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u32	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 9 and 14. The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 9.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u33	The aim is to clarify that the audit authority will not be the Directorate-General for Competition, Consumer Affairs and Fraud Prevention (DGCCRF), but rather the National Agency for Information Systems Security (ANSSI), which is more competent in this field.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u34	Mrs Huguette Tiegna has the floor to support Amendment No. 14.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u35	The amendment thus removes an ambiguity.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u36	On the whole of the bill, I have a request for a public vote before the IDU group, which is independent. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. The identical amendments No 10 by the rapporteur and No 15 by Mrs Huguette Tiegna are editorial.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u37	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 11 and 16. The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No 11.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u38	This amendment addresses one of the cornerstones of this bill: cyberscore. When a user goes to a site or platform, he will see a well-identified color code that will tell him that an independent audit has confirmed that his data is well protected but also that the internal security of the site is rigorous.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u39	Mrs Huguette Tiegna has the floor to support Amendment No. 16.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u40	Similar to the previous one, it proposes to refer the definition of the visual format of the display to the public of the audit results and the conditions for access to the results on-line service, as well as any provisions relating to the presentation of results, to the order referred to in the fifth paragraph. Such a division between the law and the regulation has been retained for recent texts that have created nutrient and repair index. However, the amendment maintains the principle of a presentation or complementary expression to accompany the publication of the audit results.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u41	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 12 and 17. The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 12.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u42	It will take time to define the contours of this audit. I therefore propose that the Act come into force only on October 1, 2023.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u43	Mrs Huguette Tiegna has the floor to support Amendment No. 17.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u44	It is necessary to allow sufficient time for the ANSSI to carry out the technical expertise work and for the publication of the planned regulatory texts.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u45	I put the whole bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u46	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 50 Number of votes cast 50 Absolute majority 26 For adoption 49 Against 1
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u47	The next item is the debate on the proposal for an organic law favouring the localization of parliamentarians (No. 4695, 4560).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u48	The Minister responsible for the city has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u49	The proposal for an organic law favouring the localization of parliamentarians, which is currently being considered by the National Assembly, aims at redefining the scope of the incompatibilities between the mandate of parliamentarians and the executive functions of mayor, deputy mayor and deputy mayor in municipalities of less than 10,000 inhabitants. The text, as adopted by the Senate, also tends to expand the possibility of simultaneously exercising the mandate of parliamentarians and many other local executive functions. The proposal for an organic law was the subject of a very rich discussion during its consideration by the Law Committee of the National Assembly, which finally rejected it. As in its discussion in the Senate, the Government, for its part, remains unfavorable to the text. However, it gives him and Parliament the opportunity to examine more broadly the relationship between local mandates and that of parliamentarians, the understanding our fellow citizens have of the role of MPs and senators, and the increasingly rich responsibilities of local authorities, particularly municipalities and inter-communities. This is a useful and fundamental debate, but the proposal for an organic law reduces it to the mere question of the cumulation of mandates. According to the authors of the text, in the eyes of the French, parliamentarians would have become above ground, disconnected from the real and the problems of the territories in which they are elected. In this regard, the introduction of incompatibilities by the Organic Act of 14 February 2014 prohibiting the cumulation of local executive functions with the mandate of a Member of Parliament or Senator would have contributed substantially. The Government does not share this view at all, nor does it share the solution proposed here, which would amount to a return to the movement, which had begun long before 2014, aimed at strengthening the limits to the cumulation of mandates. During the great national debate, our citizens expressed their great need to increase their proximity to public authorities, especially at local level. And they want the elected representatives to be fully involved in their term of office in the assemblies in which they are elected. In a study carried out for the National Assembly by the CSA Institute, the Jean-Jaurès Foundation and FONDAPOL – Foundation for Political Innovation – and published this week, 73% of respondents consider that non-cumulation of mandates is a good thing. Furthermore, the text refers to the need for national elected officials to have knowledge of the difficulties, challenges and competences exercised by local elected officials. The Government obviously shares that view. However, at this stage, we do not believe that the mandate of parliamentarians and that of mayors or regional vice-presidents should be exercised concurrently to that end. I would also like to point out that the law allows parliamentarians to retain a local mandate. Indeed, article L.O. 141 of the Electoral Code provides that the term of office of deputy is compatible with the exercise of one of the following mandates: regional councillor, councillor in the Assembly of Corsica, departmental councillor, councillor in Paris, councillor in the Assembly of Guyana, councillor in the Assembly of Martinique, or municipal councillor in a municipality of more than 1000 inhabitants. As such, parliamentarians can fully take part, in a deliberative role, in the lives of our local communities, be involved in decisions taken on municipal councils, or go to meet the inhabitants of the municipality of which they are councillors. At present, 213 MPs are serving as municipal, departmental or regional councillors, and I do not think that these parliamentarians, who are also elected local, consider themselves out-of-ground or disconnected from the real, as indicated in the foreword of the organic bill. I would add that knowledge of the field is acquired not only by being elected local, but also by the many commitments that most parliamentarians have within the civil society of their constituency, whether they are associations, in connection with economic or other life. Ladies and gentlemen, by your presence in your ridings, you are listening daily to the people who are asking for you,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u50	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u51	... as well as the economic, associative and cultural fabric, both in terms of its problems and its initiatives. The mandates of parliamentarians and mayors therefore require those entrusted with them to be fully available to assume the responsibilities they represent – this topic was widely discussed during the discussion of the text in committee. I stress this point: our fellow citizens ask their elected representatives, mayors or parliamentarians, to be totally focused on their missions, each in its role – I adhere to that. Being mayor – many of you have been – is a difficult and challenging mission, given the responsibilities related to the mandate, the multiple demands, the varied skills assigned to the municipalities and the intercommunalities. And this is all the more valid in the small and medium-sized municipalities affected by this proposal for an organic law. In fact, the mayors of these municipalities are involved in the intercommunities of which they are part: their availability is therefore essential to the proper functioning of these institutions. The mayor represents a point of reference, an interlocutor of the daily. In the same way, as Parliament's work has been greatly intensified and diversified, constant involvement is necessary to carry out the mandate of parliamentarians. In view of the complexity and technicality of many texts, this requires an increasing level of expertise. Finally, voted in 2014, the rules on the prohibition of the cumulation of mandates were applied for the first time in the 2017 parliamentary elections, that is to say, on the occasion of your election. Therefore, taking stock of the consequences of this new arrangement, even though this legislature is not finished, seems premature. While this rule has led many MPs and senators who were also mayors, presidents or vice-presidents of local authorities to choose between their national and local mandates, it has undoubtedly contributed, among other things, to a significant renewal of the political class, both in Parliament and in local executive bodies, thus bringing more socio-professional and generational diversity. This reflection deserves to be continued and deepened, without limiting it to the question of incompatibilities between mandates. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and SOC groups]] For all these reasons, ladies and gentlemen, the Government is against this proposal for an organic law.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u52	Mr Jean-Christophe Lagarde, rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u53	I am pleased that we have been given the opportunity to address this issue of the localization of parliamentarians, which some have considered as a trench since 2014 and which the Senate and the IDU and independent group of the National Assembly have wished to put on the table. In this regard, our will is not, as I have heard, to limit the debate on the cumulation of mandates to this specific question: it turns out that the parliamentary niches, which the Constitution grants once a year to opposition or minority groups, do not allow longer texts to be examined. I am pleased to agree that a more general reflection should take place. First of all, let me present a few figures demonstrating the importance of the debate we are debating today. Only 39% of our citizens say they have confidence in their MP and 37% in their senator, compared to 64% in their local elected officials. You said, Madam Deputy Minister, that a study carried out in particular by FONDAPOL has shown that the French are attached to the non-cumulation of mandates. The same study, which he would have agreed to quote exhaustively, indicates that our fellow citizens, therefore, should not be misrepresented, are calling for their parliamentarians to have more local powers. This is an old contradiction. Thus, to the assertion "political leaders are disconnected from reality and serve only their own interests", in a survey by the Cevipof – the Political Research Centre of Sciences Po – of 2021, 70% of those interviewed said they were "agreed" except when it applied to their local elected officials, particularly mayors and their deputies. That is what we are trying to warn about with this organic bill. Without much optimism about its adoption, we want to open up a reflection and support a point of view: I know that some of you share it. The law of 14 February 2014 strictly prohibited the cumulation of mandates between an executive, even secondary, function and a parliamentary one. This seems to me to be damaging because, when we think about it, the only functions prohibited to Members of Parliament and senators are precisely the local executive functions. It is therefore quite possible to be both a Member of Parliament and a head of a company or a doctor, or to hold very important associative responsibilities, but not also to be an assistant mayor or deputy municipal councillor. For the good inspiration of Parliament, it seems to us that this is not a good thing. In this House, as in the Senate, we adopt texts, sources of standards and regulations that apply to associations, employees, businesses and local authorities. On the other hand, my point is not to accuse anyone of being above ground: I would point out to you, Madam Deputy Minister, that the foreword of the organic bill is that of the Senate, not of my group, which wished to put it on the Assembly's agenda. For seventeen years, I had the chance and the honour of being a deputy and mayor and I saw the difference in the information I received. In fact, you regularly write to the mayors, Madam Deputy Minister, just as the prefects do, in order to enforce this or that circular, as a result of legislation voted here. However, we no longer have colleagues performing these local functions in parallel to know the two ends of the chain. I am not saying that it is a necessity or the only way to be a Member of Parliament, but if it is always possible to meet the mayors, it is not the same thing to listen to as to practice. The reasoning that we have long been served and that civil society should be more represented in this House is similar. A company manager, who can also continue his activity in parallel with his mandate, can obviously provide insight, which is the fruit of his experience. On the other hand, I repeat that this same head of enterprise will have to abandon his local functions if, for example, he is a municipal councillor responsible for water management in his commune. It is this excess that we aim for, trying to return to balance. You quoted numbers, but what was the previous situation? Because of the nature of the constituencies, mayors from very large communes were sitting in this Chamber. Why? Because their political weight in their constituency favored their presence here. You will observe, however, that the organic bill adopted by the Senate is intended, on the contrary, to encourage the presence of mayors of small communes, not, as I have heard, to devalue the role or the work of these elected representatives, who may in any case have responsibilities in the intercommunal system, but to avoid that the mayor's political weight determines his election as a deputy. Indeed, in districts of about 125,000 inhabitants like ours, the weight of a mayor of a municipality of less than 10000 inhabitants is more relative, most of the time, than it was in the past. It is therefore even a reversal of the logic that we propose, by preventing the main local elected representatives of the Republic from sitting here and by allowing the elected representatives of smaller communities to do so.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u54	In the same way, it seems strange to me that we cannot be deputy mayor in charge of the environment or housing, while sitting in this Chamber: we have seen, during the debates on the law on housing, development and digital development, the ELAN law, how difficult our Parliament had been to resist what the administration wanted – and, to know the housing administration well, I am saying that it is before the government, the former elected minister Mézard, knows the subject perfectly. We must therefore achieve a balance, just as I do not deny, we must achieve a balance with regard to local executive functions. It does not seem healthy to me that we can take on two local executive functions. Because when we talk about conflicts of interest between local executive functions and parliamentary functions, we make fun of the world: everyone here represents only 1/ 577 of this assembly and he will not change the vote according to his local interest! On the other hand, when you are both vice-president of a region or department and mayor, the conflict of interest can quickly come to light. That requires that we think about it. Let us take another example: it is not possible today for a parliamentarian to be president of an HLM office. However, the president of an HLM office has no power: the head of the office is his Director General, who assumes responsibility for it, including criminal responsibility. However, a parliamentarian can perfectly be the general manager of an HLM office: where is the logic, therefore, when we know that the chairman of the board of directors of an HLM office is merely chairing the board of directors, between three and eight times a year, so, possibly, that the bidding commissions, if he wishes, but that ultimately it is the Director General who decides? It is this incoherence that we denounce, by pleading for an assembly whose composition is more diverse. There is a need for greater socio-occupational diversity, also in terms of age and, of course, more parity, but we also need local elected representatives: it is not a question of falling back into the excesses of the past, but of amending the rules prohibiting non-cumulation, which are excessive. In this context, we need to consider the limitations on the size of the executive branch or the nature of the mandates. You said, Madam Deputy Minister, that it was not yet time to take stock. But, apart from the fact that there are only six months left before the end of the legislature, the question has continued to arise. I remind you that the yellow vests – the real yellow vests, not the morons of breakers – called for the return of parliamentarians to the field and that the President of the Republic himself questioned during the great debate on the possibility for a parliamentarian to be deputy mayor. As for the Prime Minister, he said recently that a territorial anchor could be useful. It is therefore not forbidden to open the debate even if I have no illusion about the majority's willingness to adopt this text, just a few months before the elections. Unfortunately, I know that an idea in France needs time to infuse. The almost ideological ban that was imposed on us in 2014 to exercise any local executive function prevents us from putting our hands in the country. While we spend a lot of time in our constituencies listening to our fellow citizens and representatives of local communities, businesses, trade unions or associations, listening is not the same thing as doing: we make the norm, but we never have to apply it, which would enrich the work of the National Assembly and the Senate. In any case, there's a trial that I don't hear, it's the one in which we're accused of wanting to go back. I simply consider that we have gone too far and that we need to make adjustments – what we are constantly doing in this House for all kinds of laws. We are opposed to the fact that the parliamentarian must be able to devote himself exclusively to his mandate, but I have just explained that we have a perfect right to engage in other activities, including professional activities, even when they are very involved. Let it be said once and for all: I do not know any colleague, either in the majority or in the opposition, whose week is limited to thirty-five hours, and the truth is that, quite often, the thirty-five hours, we have already done them on Tuesday or Wednesday evening. It is therefore quite possible to be a parliamentarian while also exercising modest local executive functions – I am against the large number of us who perform other functions outside this Assembly. Finally, in the last municipal elections, many MPs and senators chose to leave their benches to become mayors again. Resuming a local executive function is a perfectly honourable choice, but it turns out that the inverted honorum curriculum we have somehow introduced does not allow them to speak out for the difficulties of their territories at the national level. [[Applause on the benches of the IDU-I group]] This does not seem healthy to me, because it is tantamount to licensing the administration. The mayors of small towns do not have access to the Government or even, at times, to the prefect. Under this quinquennium, the administration has considerably increased its power over local authorities – and the majority has nothing to do with it. I have never seen such contempt for the parliamentary function or such authoritarianism on the part of the prefectural administration and other state administrations vis-à-vis local elected officials. This is also the end of the cumulation of mandates, as voted, in excessive terms, in 2014.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u55	In the general debate, Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u56	There is no good or bad time to debate the functioning of our democratic life. Our democracy, everyone agrees, is in crisis. And the quinquennium that is ending has unfortunately not helped to resolve this crisis: it has rather contributed to deepening it. In his 2017 book No more to do, nothing more to fuck, Brice Teinturier, describes this serious and visibly inexorable phenomenon: the "PRAF" makes that citizens, who previously opposed the functioning of our political institutions by protesting their protest, notably through the protest vote, have now disconnected themselves from political life and are only showing disinterest for our institutions. This goes much further than the protest vote. The "nothing to do" is the translation of: "What's the point of voting, since it won't change anything in my personal life? » Parliament has never been weaker than it was under this legislature and, beyond the role of the institutions of the Fifth Republic, we bear collective responsibility for it, for example, when we agree to divest ourselves for a very long period of time of our prerogatives in the management of the health crisis, in favour of the executive. That is why many of our fellow citizens consider today that the National Assembly is only a theatre of talkers disconnected from reality, because those who speak are not those who act and that there is a gap between words and deeds. That is why we wish to discuss at this moment the possibility for a parliamentarian to hold a local executive office of reasonable scope.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u57	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, The real explanation is that Parliament has no power!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u58	It is not the same thing to be a municipal councillor, deputy mayor or deputy municipal councillor, regardless of the size of the commune, and I will have the opportunity to defend several amendments motivated by the fact that the problem is less the size of the community than the number of mandates that can be combined with that of parliamentarians – only one. If it is time for a mandate – you recalled, Madam Deputy Minister, that our fellow citizens are very much attached to the single mandate because they consider it to take full time – then a minister should no longer, logically, be able to also hold a local executive mandate, a regional president could no longer be mayor, a mayor could no longer be vice-president of a department or president of three inter-communal unions. The rule should apply to any elected member of the Republic, whether he or she is a member of parliament or not. It is precisely in order to avoid what seems to us to be a democratic setback that we wish to restore the possibility for a parliamentarian to exercise a local executive function. In reality, the real debate, the real opposition of our fellow citizens to cumulation, is about the cumulation of remuneration, and before the law establishes clear rules on this matter by capping the revenues of parliamentarians – which is not the case for local elected officials – one could in fact legitimately consider that being a deputy mayor or cumulating a parliamentary term and local mandates was a little excessive. To return to the effectiveness of the action of the elected representatives, we all know – and Jean-Christophe Lagarde recalled – that in the face of the prefect, in the face of the administration, in the face of the ministerial authorities, in the face of the state, a mayor-MP will always have more weight than a simple local elected, whatever his qualities. [[Applause on the benches of the IDU-I group]] That is why we invite you to adopt this balanced bill designed to enhance the effectiveness of the elected officials' mandate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u59	Mr Benoit Simian has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u60	The 2014 reform put an end to the French historical model of the MP-Mayor or Senator-Mayor, which was a natural equation in our territories. Almost five years after its entry into force, this bill aims to reverse this prohibition, by allowing parliamentarians, deputies and senators, to serve as mayors of a municipality of less than 10,000 inhabitants or as members of a territorial executive – without being able to assume the presidency. The original text also provided for this to be done without cumulation of allowances, so as to make clear a single objective: to be able to perform both functions by conjugating them in the field, without cumulating the financial benefits, which is normal. Our group, composed of elected representatives who have a strong territorial anchor, is shared on this text. However, we will find ourselves in the context of one observation: the unprecedented weakening of our parliament in recent years. This leads to the following question: Is it related to the disappearance of the Mayor or the Mayor? It must be noted that the 2014 reform carried out by François Hollande did not remedy the mistrust of the citizens or put an end to the criticisms against the elected officials. On the contrary, it seems to have been a step backwards and only fueled this mistrust of elected officials. On the other hand, some believe that the bill we are considering today could lead to the mayors being removed from small communes from local affairs, because being mayor of a commune is a full-time mandate, as well as other functions, such as a Member of Parliament, a head of a company or a liberal worker – I think, in particular, doctors. Others, of which I am a member, are in favour of this bill. I had the chance to be, for a month, Mayor of Ludon-Médoc, Gironde, and I consider that the 2014 reform has undermined the local anchor of parliamentarians, which is essential to stay close to our fellow citizens. It's always easier to walk through the mayor's door than the deputy's door.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u61	That's not true! Just leave it open.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u62	The new system favours apparatchiks, parachutes, the famous "inverted curriculum", as opposed to classical curricula. Therefore, in a context of anti-parliamentarianism, parliamentarians are often criticized for being disconnected from the concerns of the French, whereas such a reproach could not be put against the well-established local parliamentarians, MPs and Senator Mayors. I knew the mayor of Soulac-sur-Mer when he was exercising these two terms; When I go there for annual ceremonies, all the inhabitants tell me how much they regret this time – this feeling is especially evident in rural areas, let's recognize it. Moreover, the 2014 reform deprived parliamentarians of a local base that could strengthen their authority and independence from political parties. Thus, the prohibition of cumulation, combined with the reform of the quinquennium, seems to me to have further aggravated the already very important imbalance of powers in favour of the executive in the Fifth Republic, contributing to render the majority insufficiently independent of the Government, we all see it. Finally, paradoxically, non-cumulation could contribute to gradually devaluing the parliamentary mandate, since political figures are now encouraged to prefer it to that of the head of a territorial executive – it was evident in the past months. Before this Parliament, we had never seen so many deputy members of Parliament abandoning their seats in Parliament, with the sole aim of maintaining their local mandate. That has to question us. If the votes of Members of my group, Liberties and Territories, are shared on this text, we are unanimous that this proposal is far from being able to meet the expectations of democratic reform alone. Renewing confidence requires a profound institutional reform of our Republic, which requires a revision of the Constitution, in order to incorporate the principle of territorial differentiation. A girondina republic must be a decentralized republic, with a strengthened parliament. A local parliamentarian or elected official with an expanded power would never ask himself the question of the cumulation of mandates. Large blocks of competence must be fully transferred to local authorities, as is the case in neighbouring European countries. We believe that decisions must be taken at the closest level, as far as possible, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity. Not everything must be decided in Paris. The Members of our group will vote, as usual, in freedom of conscience on this text. The question of the territorial anchoring of elected officials is essential for our democracy.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u63	Thank you.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u64	Only profound reforms will overcome mistrust and restore the centrality of elected officials.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u65	Mr Bastien Lachaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u66	Human beings "are naturally divided into two parties: those who fear the people, challenge themselves and are inclined to remove all powers from them, and those who love them, respect them, regard them as the most honest and surest custodian of public interests." This dichotomy, formulated by Prosper-Olivier Lissagaray during the Paris Commune, helps to shed light on our debates and to make our votes clear. For my part, and with the Group of the European People's Party, we consider that the solution to any democratic problem is the people. We are therefore deeply opposed to the return of the cumulation of mandates. Returning to this principle seems simply aberrant, both to us and to many of our fellow citizens. To seek at all costs to reconstitute a caste of elected officials who grab the power to share it among them is a company so clearly undemocratic that one comes to wonder how it is possible to have such an idea. Our democracy is very ill, it is true, but the method you propose aggravates the evil it claims to heal, because our democracy suffers from the exclusion of the people from the institutions, and you want to strengthen it! We have heard beautiful speeches about a National Assembly supposedly renewed by the start-up nation, younger and more feminine. That is true, of course. But our legislature is characterized above all by the exclusion of the popular classes from the office of parliamentarian. The civil society of senior executives, the rich, the important have joined the Assembly. There are, perhaps, a few employees, women and men, less than 5% of us. But where are the workers and the workers in our Chamber? Where are the paramedics, besides my colleague and friend Caroline Fiat, the cashiers, the delivery agents, the security agents? Nowhere! Outside, yes, around us, yes. But parliamentarians, never. [[Protests on the benches of the Dem group]] The method of voting creates a grossly distorted political representation: to 17 unsubstantiated MPs, 3% of MPs, we represent 7 million people who voted on the programme "The Common Future", or almost 20% of the vote. With just 1.6 million, or just 4% more votes than we do, LaREM gets more than 50% of the seats! And this godillot reigns as a mechanical executor of the presidential monarch's decisions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u67	Oh!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u68	On Wednesday, a report was presented on distrust of elected officials. And with such a situation, we still manage to surprise ourselves! It is logical that the people do not have confidence in the institutions that are supposed to represent them, because everything is done to ensure that they do not represent them, everything is done to transform the elections into a kind of formality. Indeed, a billionaire of the far right is explicitly trying to buy the presidential election, paying for various media in order to spread hate speech and people's division at his ease. In fact, you want us to rely indefinitely on the same caste, which would joyfully combine the functions of mayor, MP, senator, regional president and even minister, and then, with a slamming of fingers, some barons come back to take possession of their city. This indecency has no limits and the start-up nation has not changed anything. I am open to all kinds of demonstrations, but based on reality. So why don't you explain to me how we can manage a commune in our already overcrowded parliamentary schedules? It's physically impossible! Cumulating mandates inevitably leads to bleaking the task or neglecting one or the other. Not only does the cumulation of mandates exclude the people from elective functions, but it also creates bad elected officials, disinvolent and disinvested in their functions. The cumulation of mandates has also created harmful confusion in the minds of citizens. How many people do I receive at my permanences come to address an issue on which a Member of Parliament has no power? Colleagues, you dream of becoming cumulards again, of cutting yourself on the back of the people of baronies, marquisats, duches and counties worthy of the Ancien Régime. We propose the opposite: that parliamentarians be elected on a departmental basis, as was the case in 1986.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u69	For once, we agree!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u70	We had already proposed it on our reserved day last year. [[Exclaims on a few benches of the Dem Group]] But we have to go further. We want a 6th Republic, decided by and for the people. By 2022, together with Jean-Luc Mélenchon, we will convene a Constituent Assembly. It cannot be composed of cumulards or persons who have already been parliamentarians. This assembly will work in parallel with the institutions, in order to write a new constitution, which will be approved by referendum. The people must recover the sovereign power of which they have gradually been dispossessed by the institutions of the Fifth Republic. To take the formula of Maximilian Robespierre, for my part, "I am of the people, I have never been but from there, I only want to be that; I despise anyone who claims to be something more." We will therefore vote against this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u71	Mrs Marie-George Buffet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u72	Many French and French people no longer recognize themselves in the functioning of our institutions. While this is widely shared on the benches of our assembly, the solutions proposed differ widely. The deputies are the representatives of the people. Their essential mission to debate the law and thus the rights of each individual, as rules of life in society according to the values of the Republic, feeds on meetings, events, debates they share with the inhabitants and the inhabitants. As elected politicians, men and women politicians, we are working on concrete proposals to improve the daily lives of our compatriots. The projects we support, we present them to serve the collective interest. It is our daily availability to our fellow citizens and our vision of society and its future that forges our mandate as elected, and not, ladies and gentlemen, the cumulation of mandates! In itself, this bill is unreasonable. To be mayor of a city with less than 10,000 inhabitants is a full-time responsibility that hardly accommodates the exercise of a national mandate. Beyond that, to go back to the non-cumulation of mandates to remedy the democratic crisis is to deny in a very unshakeable way the deeper evils that go through our democracy. The rapporteur presented the text, arguing that it was his ambition to restore the link between citizens, citizens and their representatives. It is to be forgotten that almost 90 per cent of the French were in favour of non-cumulation of mandates. It is also to be forgotten that this provision has had positive effects, such as the renewal of elected officials. Non-cumulation has also allowed women to take their place in executive positions in many local assemblies and to be more likely to sit in Parliament. The considerable weakening of the role of Parliament is not linked to non-cumulation, but to the fact that the Government is in charge of the agenda, as deputies have very little initiative of the laws and their votes can be circumvented by mechanisms such as second deliberation, among others. This weakening probably contrasts with the continued capacity of local elected officials. However, the addition of powers will not restore the lost confidence of our compatriots in parliamentary action. The reversal of the electoral calendar, on the other hand, is a simple and central measure to restore Parliament's autonomy from the executive. It is important to decorate the presidential election of the general elections, in order to break the spiral of the majority fact. In order to be effective, however, the measure must be accompanied by the termination of the discretionary power of dissolution of the National Assembly available to the President of the Republic. This proposal could have been defended in our House and we would probably have been many to join it because, yes, it would restore its true role to Parliament. But revising the electoral calendar is not enough. It is time to rethink our institutions and, more precisely, the place of citizens within them. They and they don't want to be reduced to a spectator role anymore. The renewal of elected representatives should not be the only way to participate in public life. Thus, it has been years since no President of the Republic resorted to the referendum, and because of this: we all remember the treatment given to the result of the latter. In 2005, a majority of French citizens moved to say no to the ratification of the draft treaty establishing a Constitution for Europe. The campaign was democratic and the result without appeal. Yet, two years later, this popular expression was simply swept away by the newly elected Government, causing a real democratic divide. Would we be afraid of the expression of citizens when it differs from the opinion of those who govern? That is what our compatriots then perceived. [[Applause on the SOC benches]] The advent of a 6th Republic must respond to these democratic challenges, restore power to Parliament, break the presidential monarchy, install the proportional, strengthen the territorial authorities, places par excellence of the exercise of citizenship, multiply the places of listening and exchange, by going to seek audiences often far from the public thing. This is the thread of the Democratic and Republican Left Group, when we are working on institutional and democratic issues. It is because we think it is ineffective and inappropriate that we will vote against this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u73	Mr Jean-René Cazeneuve has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u74	The purpose of this bill is to challenge the prohibition on the cumulation of the mandate of parliamentarians with those of mayor of a municipality of less than 10,000 inhabitants, deputy mayor, deputy mayor, mayor of borough or vice-president of intercommunality, without threshold limits, and to allow for the cumulation of allowances. The text thus proposes to reverse decades of democratic process: the Act of 3 February 1992, which capped compensation in the event of cumulation; that of 5 April 2000, which limited the number of local executive functions to two; the Committee for Reflection and Proposal on the Modernization and Rebalancing of the Institutions of the Fifth Republic, chaired by Édouard Balladur, in 2007; The Commission for the Renovation and Ethics of Public Life, chaired by Lionel Jospin in 2012; the law of 14 February 2014 which ended the cumulation of the terms of office of deputy and mayor. Everything has been said about the issue of the cumulation of mandates, but, as a matter of chance, this subject is put on the table by the opposition just a few months before the elections. The Group of the Republic on the move is opposed to this text for five main reasons. The first is that cumulation is already possible with a local mandate: a parliamentarian can be a municipal, departmental or regional councillor. In fact, 56% of MPs currently hold local office; If we add those who have exercised one in the past, almost two thirds of Members of Parliament have an anchor in local and regional authorities. We can participate in municipal councils, make decisions and vote in local assemblies. I do not believe that representing local and regional authorities necessarily means leading one. Secondly, since the threshold of 10,000 inhabitants is totally arbitrary, there is a significant constitutional risk. This threshold is also counter-intuitive with regard to the workload of the mayors of small communes and villages. Many rely on them: with few agents and a reduced municipal council, they are available to their fellow citizens seven days a week and twenty-four hours a day. How could they, in addition, be deputies? On the other hand, the president of a metropolis can rely on a Director General of Services (DGS) and on many agents who allow him to devote two to three days to the debates in Paris. Mayor is a full-time commitment, and I want to take this opportunity to pay tribute to all the mayors of France who are constantly working for the general interest. Thirdly, the workload caused by a return to the cumulation of mandates would be far too heavy. According to the latest barometer AMF-Cevipof, the mayors of the municipalities from 1000 to 3500 inhabitants devote thirty-five hours a week to their mandate as mayor; It is even forty-five hours for the mayors of the communes from 3500 to 10,000 inhabitants. I don't know how many hours we spend on our mandate as MP, but who can say here that MP is not a full-time term? How can we find time to uncompromisingly exercise the two functions of deputy and mayor? France does not need half mayors or half MPs. Fourthly, some see the cumulation of mandates as a means of moving the issues forward in Paris. Is that really what we want: a Member who could favour a particular municipality at the expense of others? Do the 35,000 mayors have to be MPs to make sure their files move forward? Of course not. Finally, let us be realistic: Members, when they do not sit, are on the ground. We are in constant contact with our fellow citizens in our permanences, with associations, in the markets and on the edges of rugby grounds. It is still too early to learn all the lessons, but the law limiting the cumulation of mandates – which has not yet undergone a full exercise – has allowed for an important renewal of the political class, its rejuvenation and feminization. I also believe that the massive influx of Members from civil society, particularly rooted in the reality of our fellow citizens, has led to tremendous legislative work in a wide range of areas. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and SOC groups]] However, this bill touches on real issues that many here have raised. How can we reaffirm the role of the parliamentarian, who is still too unknown to our fellow citizens? How can we improve the information and work of parliamentarians with the Prefect and some local elected officials? How can we limit horizontal cumulation, when we can be both mayor, president of an intercommunality and regional councillor? How can we limit the cumulation in time that leads to the technocratization of the burdens of local executives? How can we organise a more direct democracy between the Member and the citizens? What status for the chosen man? These are fundamental questions that we would be delighted to address. But they need to be studied globally, calmly and in consultation with local elected officials.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u75	Mrs Brigitte Kuster has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u76	I would like to associate all my colleagues in the Republican Group, on whose behalf I am pleased to speak. Many of them are affected by this law on the establishment of parliamentarians, as they are former local elected officials, mayors or deputy mayors. I myself was mayor of the 17th arrondissement of Paris. I had to leave my municipal office, which was not without emotion. By law of 14 February 2014, the legislator had wished to put an end to the cumulation of mandates by making the mandate of a parliamentarian incompatible with the exercise of a local executive. The first stated objective of this reform was to build confidence in political life by freeing MPs and senators from over-absorbing functions that would apparently have prevented them from focusing on their parliamentary missions. The second objective was to renew the political staff by allowing better representation of socio-professional categories previously underrepresented on the benches of the Chamber and on those of the Senate. The fact is, it's not. The promoters of the non-cumulation promised us the return of French confidence in political life. However, the adoption of this reform did not solve the difficulties faced by French representative democracy. The proof is that the non-cumulation did not bring the French back massively to the polls in the last local elections. Similarly, the image of parliamentarians in public opinion has hardly improved, when it has not deteriorated. This is reflected in the attacks on some of our colleagues, the deterioration of electoral tenures, and the death threats and insulting messages received by some of us. Almost five years after the entry into force of the law on the non-cumulation of mandates, it must be noted that democracy has not been strengthened, on the contrary. Worse, the negative effects of non-cumulation of mandates outweighed the virtuous effects that we were promised: is it necessary to recall that Parliament rarely appeared so weak and the balance of powers, or rather the imbalance of powers, so much called into question? Prior to 2017, parliamentarians had a local base that could strengthen not only their authority and expertise, but also their independence from the executive, not to mention the much stronger dependence on partisan apparatus. Reform has taken place at the expense of those who previously had a parliamentary mandate with hard-earned local mandates. Even more worrying, because it concerns the very future of the parliamentary mandate, many MPs and senators now prefer a local executive to the detriment of national democratic representation. The municipal, then departmental, elections were a striking illustration, as if being in direct contact with the citizens, locally, was ultimately more rewarding. The forced removal of parliamentarians, deprived of local executive mandates, has led to a stronger sense of disconnection that our fellow citizens feel. In Paris, it is even more striking: few Parisians know their deputy, when the figure of the mayor, including the mayor of borough, is much better identified.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u77	It's just to be known, then?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u78	Let me just take a moment to look at the Parisian case. Paris, divided into boroughs, has not only a municipal executive around the mayor, but also seventeen borough mayors. The latter, deprived of real prerogatives, exercised by the city hall of Paris, were subjected to a double penalty: they had no real lever of action to influence the development of their borough, and could not exercise a parliamentary mandate more than the other mayors of France. There is, you will agree, a measure that limits to absurdity. That is what will lead me to defend an amendment just now in favour of an adjustment of the non-accumulation of mandates for the mayors of arrondissement and sector of Paris, Lyon and Marseille. For exercising both functions, it seems to me quite possible to carry out simultaneously the borough mayor's missions – which, I repeat, are eased in relation to a full mayor – and the missions of a parliamentarian. I am even firmly convinced that the functions of mayor of a small commune – we are talking here about municipalities with less than 10,000 inhabitants – or of a borough are perfectly complementary to the work of a deputy. Finally, on behalf of my group, I would like to raise a final incongruity with the law on non-accumulation of mandates. Indeed, while it is particularly demanding with deputies and senators by prohibiting them from serving in a local executive, it is much less demanding with members of the Government. If it has been the practice of a minister for several decades to abandon his or her position as mayor or president of a territorial community, he or she is not legally obliged to do so. This has allowed some members of the current or previous Government to resort to cumulation: I am referring here to the Minister for the Interior, as well as to the Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs, who was, at one time, president of a regional council. Explain to me how this is possible when you refuse to cumulate with parliamentarians! The argument concerning the need for full-time focus on his local mandate or national functions does not appear to apply in this case.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u79	Madam Member, I'm going to ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u80	[[Applause on the benches of the IDU-I and LT groups]] The Republicans will support this bill in favour of a stronger territorial anchoring of parliamentarians.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u81	Mrs Isabelle Florennes has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u82	In recent years, democratic life has seen a defiance that widens the gap between the elected and the French. It is expressed in a variety of ways, including an increasingly high rate of abstention, including for elections that previously appeared to be preserved. The abstention rate increased dramatically in the first round of the 20 June 2021 departmental and regional elections, reaching 66 per cent: only one in three voters moved, compared with one in two in the last elections of the same type. At the same time, social networks show growing verbal violence against elected officials, and our mailboxes are overwhelmed with threats, which are sometimes death threats. Injuries, violence, abstention: all this reveals a profound challenge to representative democracy. How can we stop and breathe new life into our democracy? First of all, we need to hear from our fellow citizens. The French tell us that they want more proximity and localization. The colloquium held last Tuesday in the National Assembly on the French's perception of the mandate and work of MPs shows that 70% of them want their MP to deal first with local problems, but the same proportion remains hostile to the cumulation of mandates.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u83	There you go!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u84	It is in this context that the proposal for an organic law comes into play. It proposes to reverse the ban on the cumulation of mandates in the name of a parliamentarism firmly rooted in the reality of the territories. Is that the right solution? The question really arises, but not in an isolated approach. Mr rapporteur, the Group of the European Democratic Movement (MODEM) and the Group of the European People's Party (Allied Democrats) believes that this issue should be addressed in a comprehensive reform, under the penalty of disappointing the French. The stakes are important: it is a question of restoring the confidence of the French in our democracy. Our political family has been involved for many years in drawing up proposals aimed at revitalizing and strengthening our democracy by fighting, for example, against an increase in the rate of abstention. This requires the modernisation of voting operations, as well as, certainly, better control of the parliamentary calendar. We have thus put forward proposals on the simplification and modernisation of the vote, defended in particular by my colleague Jean-Noël Barrot; We are working to establish a proportional dose and we have a concept of the mandate of a Member of Parliament focused on proximity and on a permanent and strong link with the French. The debate we have today must therefore take place in a broader, more inclusive proposal for reform. We cannot believe that the return to the cumulation of mandates, even if the question arises, is the only response to the crisis of democratic confidence in our country. Let us work together towards a more pragmatic reform and more attentive to the French. In addition, a great deal of work is currently under way in the National Assembly as part of the fact-finding mission on electoral participation or the study group on the organization of democratic life. Outside the Chamber, working groups are also working to grasp all the challenges of the crisis and then to formulate specific proposals. It is by carrying out this long work of reflection that we will manage to reform our system in depth. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group and on some benches of the LaREM group]] Colleagues, the challenges of re-establishing the bond of trust with the French are important and deserve concrete and lasting answers. France is a great democracy and must remain so. That is why we have a responsibility not to satisfy ourselves with incomplete answers. The restoration of the cumulation of mandates cannot be considered independently of any other response, and that is why the Dem Group will vote against the proposed organic law.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u85	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u86	We are debating a text from the Senate, which the members of the Socialist and related group consider to be declining and regressive. Once again, he questions the non-accumulation of mandates. The road is long and difficult. We fully agree to strengthen the local anchoring of parliamentarians, in accordance with the wishes of local elected representatives and citizens, and ours. We share the objective, but we disagree on the tool that the Senate, relayed by the IDU and independent group, proposes to use to achieve it. In our view, the cure is worse than evil. We have tabled an amendment to delete Article 1. I beg you to excuse the radicality of this: you know that the opposition, subject to a requirement of clarity, cannot afford to be too vague and must express its point of view as soon as possible. We will therefore defend this amendment to express our clear opposition to the text we are considering. On this occasion, I welcome President Ferrand's initiative to have commissioned an inquiry into the French's view of the National Assembly, the results of which have been timelyly addressed to us recently. According to this serious, strong investigation, the citizens are waiting for Members to show a local anchor. I note that the reduction in the number of Members envisaged at the beginning of the term of office is contradictory to the objective of maintaining a local anchor, which assumes that the size of the constituency makes it possible to meet with citizens in a given time. According to this survey, 70% of the French want their MP to deal with the problems of his constituency, which we do, by using to help them, without falling into compromise or conflict of interest, the power that our national mandate gives us, when it is in the general interest. I would point out that, at the same time, 73% of French people refuse to return to the non-cumulation of mandates. Anchoring is therefore necessary – on this point, I share your concern. How, then, can we promote it, if not through the cumulation of mandates? In our view, we must first maintain a sufficient number of parliamentarians, so that the size of the constituencies is compatible with our task. Secondly, it is necessary to regulate the MP's presence by laws and regulations, so that it is not left to the discretion of a prefect, institution or local authority. When a Member expresses a desire to explain a device or to verify the application of a measure, the doors must open in the name of the national mandate. Indeed, our role as a national elected representative is to take account and to report – but the legislative and regulatory mechanisms must take this requirement into account. Local anchoring also presupposes that the national elected official fulfils his task of monitoring the practical application of the law he has voted in the territories. This is not the case at all. The effectiveness of parliamentary work would be appreciated much more accurately in the territories, in situ, rather than here, during the weeks of control, which must be described as insipid, which we breed year after year, in order to pretend. I see that Mr Jean-Noël Barrot is present: we have worked together – well – as part of the fact-finding mission on the implementation of the laws, and we have opened up prospects that will have to be seriously studied for the next legislature. Finally, beyond laws and regulations, there is the fundamental law, the Constitution. It does not say anything about the local role of the MP, who exists in fact. During the next legislature, we will have to work to create a constitutional and legislative framework that details the local role of the MP.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u87	Mr Benoit Potterie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u88	The link between the French and their representatives is the cement of our political society. Parliament must therefore be the place where all sensitivities, realities and disagreements are expressed. Because a feeling that no voice in the Republic comes to express, an opinion that is not heard in our democracy, a forgotten territory of national representation, it is a part of our nation that is banished. It is therefore essential that elected officials be anchored in cities, departments and regions. That is why, for several decades, as of the Third Republic, our political system has been characterized by a large proportion of parliamentarians exercising a local executive mandate. However, the Organic Law of 14 February 2014 made the term of office of MP or Senator incompatible with any local executive functions, including the presidency or vice-presidency of local deliberative assemblies, consular councils, or member of the Bureau of the Assembly of French Foreigners. The proposal for an organic law that we are considering plans to revisit this measure. As adopted by the Senate, the text is intended to allow Members and Senators to hold a significant number of local executive functions. In particular, they would be eligible to serve as mayor or deputy mayor of a municipality of less than 10,000 inhabitants, vice-president of territorial communities and president of consular councils. Thus, this text reopens a debate that has been in our institutions for several years now: we must thank its authors for this. It is always positive that Parliament should address the issues that are going through French society. The concerns raised at the time of the adoption of the Organic Act of 14 February 2014, which give rise to this bill, are legitimate and must be heard. The non-cumulative nature of mandates poses a real risk that parliamentarians will be disconnected from realities on the ground. In addition, until 2014, a member of Parliament or a senator with a local executive mandate was likely to have more weight and autonomy, particularly vis-à-vis political structures that were sometimes gangregnated by their own immobilism. Symmetrically, a mayor or president of a territorial community can only be better heard, especially in the face of the prefects, if he or she is in line with national issues. All in all, the cumulation of mandates favoured the articulation of the national and local levels, the cooperation between all the living forces that we cannot do without, as the health crisis has shown again. However, it should not be forgotten that the 2014 reform made sense and still has it. Indeed, the first challenge was to adapt to the development of the prerogatives of the National Assembly and the Senate that the 2008 constitutional review had undertaken. To be fully assumed, the powers of Parliament must be exercised by elected officials focused on the mission for which they bear the scarf: to draft the law, representing the interests of all citizens. In order to restore the confidence of the French in politics, we must also respect the division of roles between local elected officials and elected representatives of the nation. Similarly, it was a matter of respecting the spirit of decentralization laws, by allowing mayors and community presidents to fully exercise the new competencies that were given to them. This argument is always valid: more than ever, to revive our economies, to recreate the link between the French, to meet the major contemporary challenges, decentralization is indispensable. More than a principle set out in our Constitution, it must be a logic at every moment followed. In addition, in 2017, the ban on the cumulation of office, in conjunction with the renewal brought about by the election of the President of the Republic and his majority, led to a significant refreshment of political staff. As a result of this change, some categories of populations, which have been excluded in the past, have become more visible. I am thinking in particular of the number of women in this House, which, without achieving parity, has increased by more than 11 points. Therefore, each of us can see that it is not possible to turn aside the question of the link between Parliament and the territories. However, due to the lack of empirical studies in this area, and in light of the diversity of feelings that inhabit the French towards him, the relevance of the cumulation of mandates remains a very subjective question. As a result, the Members of the Action Group will each make their choice, in conscience and in accordance with the convictions of those they represent. For my part, I will vote against this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u89	That's too bad! Listen to the reasonable voices of your group!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u90	Mr Guy Bricout has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u91	The best of us!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u92	Unfortunately, year after year, we see that our fellow citizens show disaffection with politics and distrust of elected officials, and that the rate of abstention in elections reaches sad records, when the majority of us try to do the best they can to honour their mandate. This situation poses a real danger to our democracy. We must collectively look for its causes and try to find solutions to them. There are many reasons, but one is probably the lack of proximity between the national elected representatives we are and our fellow citizens. It is in this global reflection that this bill takes place modestly, which wants to promote the localization of parliamentarians by adjusting the rules of non-cumulation of local and national mandates voted in 2014. A few years after the entry into force of a reform, it is always appropriate to take an interest in its results and to open a debate on its implementation. However, voter turnout in elections is undeniably still declining; the movement of yellow vests has shown us in particular that distrust of policies does not weaken; Worse still, many elected officials are subjected to physical or verbal attacks. It must therefore be noted that the law on non-cumulation was far from being a miracle remedy. On the other hand, we are well aware of the perverse effects, the most damaging of which is, of course, the accusation of a parliamentarism totally out of the ground.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u93	No, no, no, no, no, You're the one who said it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u94	[[Laughs]] We still have the right to say something! The text we are looking at this morning tends not to go back completely, nor to allow unlimited cumulation of mandates, but simply to restore some balance in a device designed to the pointer.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u95	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u96	The Senate and our rapporteur propose to adjust the non-accumulation in order to restore to parliamentarians the localization they need to carry out the mission entrusted by our fellow citizens. Indeed, the mayor's or deputy mayor's mandates allow for a necessary proximity to all, a better knowledge of the terrain, a greater ability to raise demands, a greater weight to the executive. The deputy mayor is not what is called pejoratively a cumular, he is an elected member closer to his officials, who can make the link between the local level and the national level, in order to adapt the policies in the constituencies in a coherent way. I myself have been mayor for many years. When I became a Member of Parliament, I had to find other ways to keep in touch with my fellow citizens. I have therefore established an electoral district council, and I am increasingly convinced that all citizens need that proximity. It is no coincidence that municipal elections generally have the highest turnout. It is not desirable to create legal barriers between the mandates of mayor and parliamentarians. They talk to each other, enrich each other, complement each other. Far from being against each other, they can be both. [[Applause on the benches of the IDU-I group]] Ladies and gentlemen, you will have noticed that I have not mentioned a farandole of figures and surveys, which unfortunately we know too well. Nor did I speak very land-to-earth of the effectiveness of public action, of an over-centralizing power that neglects our territories, or of a whole host of other issues that support this bill. In the five minutes I was given, I tried to express with simple words why I believe that the text that the IDU and independent group defends this morning is indispensable to restore a little humanity and body to our function, in the interest of our democracy and of all the people it serves on a daily basis.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u97	Mr Bruno Bilde has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u98	Decentralization laws of 1985, 2000 and 2014 have considerably reduced the scope for cumulation of mandates. They were intended to make the parliamentary mandate more effective and to improve the transparency of political life. At the time, we were assured that the cumulation of mandates was the cause of a serious crisis of trust between parliamentarians and citizens. Seven years later, the steady increase in abstention shows that the law on the new territorial organization of the Republic (NOTRE) has not resolved anything, while the number of parliamentarians off the ground has increased. Worse, the MP is almost no longer in the field. President Lagarde is right: the administration is replacing elected officials, little by little. The drafters of the organic law envisage a partial review of the law of 14 February 2014 prohibiting the cumulation of local executive functions and a parliamentary mandate. The purpose of this bill is to keep alive the link between the French and their elected representatives. It is true that combating the disconnection of parliamentarians must be of concern to all of us. The sense of abandonment of the territories and rurality is particularly strong and legitimate. There is a certain hypocrisy: the Government opposes the text, while ministers are themselves cumular. Democracy has not improved since the organic law prohibiting the cumulation of mandates; On the contrary, it participated in keeping the elected representatives away from the citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u99	We can cumulate, we just don't have to be mayor!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u100	The large regions and cantons have accelerated the process of expulsion. The longer the distance between elected officials and citizens, the more confidence erodes. The local and the national were opposed by cutting the parliamentarians off from their local anchor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u101	Go to the markets!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u102	That is why it is positive to bring a dose of freedom to this matter. When we were elected local, we have a less disembodied view of public policy.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u103	Anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u104	The essential criterion must remain the effectiveness of public action. Since 2014, the decentralization landscape has changed considerably. Since NOTRE law, the cumulation of mandates is no longer vertical, but horizontal: it concerns internal appointments to municipal and departmental councils, as well as to inter-municipal executive bodies. Some political figures combine a large number of local functions and mandates, becoming real barons. One can thus be mayor of Nice, president of the metropolis of Nice and vice-president of the Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur region; In my constituency, you can be mayor of Lievin, vice-president of the agglomeration and vice-president of the departmental council; but deputy and deputy mayor, no. What hypocrisy! The bill makes it possible to complement the parliamentary mandate with that of mayor or deputy mayor. Only a local elected official can understand the realities on the ground and voters must have the freedom to choose in whom they place their trust. Localization and anchoring on the ground are essential for the proper functioning of democracy, in order to maintain a strong link in the territory. [[Brigitte Kuster applauds]] However, the text could be more ambitious. I am, of course, talking about the proportion that you promised: another betrayal, because if the link between parliamentarians and the field is a subject, it is nothing in relation to the crisis of Parliament's representativeness. Thus, we are seven deputies to represent more than 10 million voters; Not even a parliamentary group, while we were present in the second round of the presidential election. This is a major democratic scandal that makes our country one of the most in crisis in Europe, as demonstrated by the yellow vest crisis. It is obvious that abstention and distrust of policies will diminish when the French feel not only that they know their elected officials, but above all that they are represented.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u105	The general discussion is closed. The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u106	At this point, I would almost dare say that the organic bill that we are resuming from the Senate has achieved much of its objective. I do not have the naivety to think that on the eve of the presidential and legislative elections, the National Assembly will have the courage to go further. In fact, I observe that among those who told us that it would be too early or that it would have to be more comprehensive, with a broader view of reforms, none took the initiative to do so during the legislature. It is November 26, 2021: we were elected on June 19, 2017 and, since then, nothing has happened – neither on this subject nor on others – that would have improved the attractiveness of public life. Everyone noticed it and regretted it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u107	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u108	Of course, from election to election, abstention continues to progress, but I do not think it is the only measure to assess this deterioration. In reality, our ambition is to make our citizens think not only about Parliament, but also about our citizens. I have heard many of our colleagues refer to their opinions or opinions. It seems to me – it is in any case the philosophy of the IDU and independent group – that our mission in this House is sometimes to change the public mind, even when our fellow citizens are wrong. I repeat, we had no ambition to return to the previous system. We simply see – this often happens in this House, on many subjects – that the 2014 law pushes too much logic. I am very happy to acknowledge that it has completely left out, through electoral demagogy, the problem of the cumulation of local mandates that has just been mentioned by several of you. Let us be honest – I come with a lot of good faith: in a parliamentary niche with several texts, the first two of which were adopted in a simplified procedure, we do not have the opportunity to propose a comprehensive reform. At the beginning of the legislature, there was a discussion on the Constitution, unfortunately aborted for the reasons we know and which never came back to the table. There has been no bill that would have reorganised some of the functionings of local authorities or the capacity for differentiation. [[Ms. Yaël Braun-Pivet, Chairperson of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, smiled]] I simply ask that we do not make the false trial of saying that we would only look at that. I say this for the colleagues, because I imagine they are in good faith, but also for those who listen to us, especially the usual internet trolls that are deeply indifferent to me – I invite them not to waste their time, I never look at their comments. We do not have the ambition to reform the whole of democracy. I agree with some of the speakers: of course, there would be other things to do, starting with modifying or modulating the Fifth Republic. Michel Debré wanted a reasoned parliamentary life: the truth is that it is stopped! I am lucky to have sat under four majorities: forgive me to say so, but the croupion parliament has been made up of all these majorities. I don't sue anyone: the Fifth Republic is like this! The situation has been aggravated by the quinquennium, since most of the deputies of the majority – those of Mr Hollande yesterday, of Mr Macron today or of Mr Sarkozy the day before yesterday – owe their mandate to the President of the Republic: they are made to understand that we should not rebel too much.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u109	Absolutely, congratulations!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u110	When they had local warrants, it's true that sometimes they could resist better, but I don't do that. The problem is the Fifth Republic, it is not the current majority or those of MM. Holland and Sarkozy. I heard earlier a reflection from Mr Lachaud, with whom I do not share much in general. He stated a reality: one of Parliament's difficulties is its lack of power; it is the weak control of his agenda; It is the total absence of its means of control over the Government's actions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u111	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u112	Go to Germany, where there is a real parliamentary democracy! Look what the Bundestag means to know what the federal government is doing! We're having fun with reports that are written by the Government and that we don't even have the means to control reality! It is not the fact of this majority, it is an institutional problem that is major, because it leads not only the Government – with all due respect, Madam Deputy Minister – but also, above all, the administration, to exercise power more than we ourselves. I said earlier that I do not like the debate on conflicts of interest. Each of us represents 1/ 577 of the legitimacy of the assembly, but it is better to convince the ministers' councillors, whom I call the little men in black – pardon, you serve the Republic very well – than the deputies: because, when you convinced a minister's adviser, the law applies; If you try to convince the deputies when the government is opposed, you will see that, whatever the majority, it does not work. [[Bruno Bilde applauds]] I was more successful in going to convince the senior officials of the Ministry of Housing – who should not have as much power – to share between the tenant and the owner the benefit of an energy saving investment, than by trying to make it clear to my 576 colleagues. That is the reality of the parliamentary mandate!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u113	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u114	I know very well that he can be caricatured, but we must also assume our institutional functioning if we want our citizens to understand that different balances could exist. With regard to each other's interventions, allow me to begin with Pascal Brindeau, because this corresponds to the order of passage, and with my friend and dean of the group, Guy Bricout. The question asked is not a question of practicality for the holders of elected officials, it is a question of efficiency. It is normal for us, both in this chamber and in this chamber, to have elected representatives from all sections and categories of society. One day, I will have to be told why all the functions, except that of mayor, are authorized in parallel with the mandate of MP. It is even authorized with the office of minister! I'm not going back, because it's caricatural. Moreover, you could have taken the opportunity of this text to prohibit it. Since the majority did what they wanted, they could introduce an amendment to prohibit them from being ministers and mayors at the same time!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u115	We had to drop him off!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u116	Madam Deputy Minister, I can still table an amendment, but you also have the opportunity to do so! I leave this case aside because it would be too controversial. More seriously, who can explain to us that the only ones who cannot sit in this Chamber or in the Senate are the municipal councillors, the deputy mayors – I turn to you, Mrs Untermaier – or the mayors of the small communes? How can we be told, as I have heard from many of you – I am thinking in particular of Mr Cazeneuve – that being mayor of a small commune is a full-time mandate that occupies a lot? That's right! Someone talked about thirty-five hours or even forty-five hours of weekly work: it's true! I still observe that local elected officials in small municipalities all perform full-time professional functions, unless they are retired, if only because their allowances are so low that this mandate is almost voluntary. [[Applause on the benches of the IDU-I group]] Let us be consistent, ladies and gentlemen! The truth is that most local elected officials are either pensioners or people who perform a professional function. Their mandate is said to be a full-time job, but that is not true. Full time for local elected officials and parliamentarians is not thirty-five hours a week. I want the French to hear it, since we are often the target of quolibets. Recognize that no mayor in France works less than thirty-five hours a week; he does a lot more and he often does it in addition to his profession. No Member of Parliament works thirty-five hours a week.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u117	Of course I do!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u118	This idea of full-time has no meaning, from my point of view, since the full-time of the French is not that of the elected ones.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u119	This has nothing to do with it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u120	I am replying to arguments that you objected to: you cannot say that this has nothing to do with it! As Guy Bricout said, there are many reasons for disaffection: this is one. We're looking for a balance with a text that's been up to the point, on one point – I've addressed other institutional issues that I'd like to see applied here. If we were looking for something transversal between national and local elected representatives, it seems to us that the right balance would be the cumulation of an executive and a representative mandate, at all levels, both to protect conflicts of interest and to allow the one who represents, in a departmental council, in a regional council or in a parliamentary assembly – here or in the European Parliament – not to have an anchor, but to assume the standards it sets itself.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u121	I think that would strengthen Parliament's control capacity. For several years, I served as a parliamentarian and mayor: 95% of my parliamentary activity was inspired by what I lived as a mayor, particularly through the interaction between local administrations and elected officials. The Association des mayores de France et des présidents d'intercommunalité (AMF), which we have heard, has made the following observation, although it does not have an official position, that the mayors look less naturally to their parliamentarians – this is not the responsibility of the latter – even the senators, because they feel they are not concerned with the same subjects. Of course, as parliamentarians, we are in contact with the mayors, but it is not the same to have to apply the circular of the prefect, the academic director of the National Education Services (DASEN), the rector, the family allowance fund, than to hear someone say that it is likely to pose a particular problem. Our bill is not about anything else. It is true, we must not go back to the system in which, for example – let no one feel targeted – we could be both mayor of Paris and deputy of Corrèze: it is impossible. However, how do you explain that it is allowed to be mayor of a small town while exercising a professional function, but that there is no permission to cumulate with the mandate of MP? I think this ban is a mistake. As you said, Mr Simian, the original bill – we will come back to it when we look at the amendments – prohibited the cumulation of allowances. It is simply a question of avoiding fuelling the fantasy that we would exercise several mandates for a matter of money: the objective is only that of efficiency – as Pascal Brindeau mentioned – that of promoting the plurality of approaches and the diversity of experiences during parliamentary debates. Did a mayor or executive president also have more weight vis-à-vis the population? I can't say. On the other hand, it is certain that his ability to resist the government, his own party or political group was much greater: this applies both to the Assembly and to the Senate. Our party has a group in both assemblies, and we see that the current incompatibility does not help to strengthen the power of elected officials in the face of administration, which should be a collective obsession. As usual, Mr. Lachaud sought to oppose the good and the bad. Such a vision of the world is detestable, because the world is not in black and white, nor in red and black: there are simply different ways of organizing public life. You have stated that the purpose of this bill is to exclude the people from the assemblies, which makes no sense, even if the sociological representation of our assemblies may leave something to be desired – you are right to emphasize this.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u122	It's good to recognize him already!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u123	Similarly, contrary to what you have said, it will not be possible to combine the office of minister with that of regional president. Finally, Mr Lachaud, you consider that the mandate of a parliamentarian must be completed on a full-time basis; However, being a film producer and parliamentarian at the same time does not seem to be a problem, nor does pretending to be a good MP.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u124	Neither of them, for the sake of the matter!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u125	Watch what's happening in your own group! That is why – and I plead guilty – we can be both president of a political party, which takes time, and parliamentary, which is the case of a number of us, almost in all groups, with the exception of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats. Do you really think that the office of president of a political party does not take time? You have, Mrs Buffet, exercised this kind of responsibility. Therefore, the argument of time does not hold.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u126	It takes less time!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u127	You mentioned, Mrs Buffet, the necessary availability of elected officials. Our constituencies are nearby and I have never heard a single citizen of your constituency say that you were not available; I also do not think that you have heard this from me during the 17 years during which I served simultaneously as a Member of Parliament and as a mayor. For when you assume both types of warrants, people ask you indifferently under one or the other: it is not a question of availability, it corresponds to the time you devote to it. On the other hand, I disagree with you, Mrs Buffet, with regard to the opinion of the French, which you say is unfavourable, for 90% of them. The inquiry commissioned by the National Assembly shows this: the French refuse the cumulation of mandates, which is presented to them as a personal facility or interest – hence our proposal to abolish the allowances – while hoping that their mayor can be heard where he is not currently – which is an institutional problem that you were right to mention, I will come back to – and that their deputy has more power at the local level. We all receive people who tell us that we can't do anything for them because we don't have the controls, which is a paradox, given the number of citizens – I'm not talking about the pressure groups – who ask Members for particular problems – those who come to argue a political idea are unfortunately too few. If our Republic were really decentralised – and I am also replying to Mr Cazeneuve – it would probably not be useful for Members to seek to move a particular dossier forward or to intervene with the central administrations, but our Republic and most of its administrations are still extremely centralised. The argument which makes the cumulation with a local mandate legitimate in an average city – we talk again about the threshold, which would be around 10,000 inhabitants or 9,000 inhabitants, no matter what – is precisely that of the lack of access of local authorities to central administrations. The mayors of Toulouse, Marseille or Lille will always have access to the ministries. On the other hand, the mayor of a city of 3000 or 4000 inhabitants does not have it and he needs parliamentary intervention. I disagree with you, Mr. Cazeneuve: no, advancing the issue of such a community is not a priority. I don't know how many communes you have in your constituency.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u128	Two hundred and ninety-four!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u129	For my part, in my constituency, at the time of the Chirac presidency, I fought so that the city of Bobigny, led by a communist, could benefit from a free zone: I did not favour it but I helped to meet a need of the inhabitants and to promote economic development. There is no conflict of interest, because it is part of the work of parliamentarians: which of you would refuse to try to advance a local issue? This behaviour is perfectly logical and legitimate. If the mayor of a city of 4000 inhabitants becomes a parliamentarian and does not defend the files of his commune, I fear that he will not be a Member of Parliament for a very long time! These arguments therefore do not hold. It is natural that a parliamentarian, wishing to help some local authorities, seeks to intercede with central administrations that do not consider them, or to remove them from the deconcentrated administration – prefectures sometimes cause blockages. That is also our role. As you mentioned, Mr.Cazenuve, it is possible to combine the mandates of municipal councillor, departmental councillor or regional councillor with a parliamentary mandate. However, I was an opposition municipal councillor for 12 years and a mayor for 17 years: you won't make anyone believe that being an opposition municipal councillor, or even a majority, is the same thing as managing a commune, especially those of a certain size. That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u130	In that case, there's no point in having municipal councillors anymore!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u131	They're not useless, they're doing something else!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u132	Mr Cazeneuve, it is very different to direct a municipality or to participate in its management as deputy mayor or as deputy councillor: if you are not mayor, you go to the municipal council once a month to discuss an agenda imposed by the mayor – the agendas of the municipal assemblies are not part of the initiative of the municipal council, which I regret, because in other organizational systems, particularly in Germany, the mayor is not the president of the assembly and does not have that power. Moreover, in most cities – those with fewer than 100,000 inhabitants – elected officials do not have time or allowances to devote themselves to their mandate. They can't even check the information, so the mayor can say what he wants to say to his opposition – some of you sometimes experience it. The situation is therefore very different depending on whether one exercises a share of the responsibility or whether one sits by seeing the balloons pass without knowing what is behind it. Finally, you say that civil society has brought a great deal to Parliament: I am not saying the opposite, but it is curious to consider that everyone can bring something to Parliament, except the local elected representatives; I don't think so. I am delighted that professionals in the health, industry, technology and agriculture sectors can sit on these benches, because I am totally incompetent in the agricultural field: I do as everyone else, like you, I read, I inquire. We are all more or less specialists in a subject, most often related to a passion or professional experience. But who can claim to speak wisely about atomic energy as part of his professional career? Who can speak with certainty about medical issues – they were numerous during this quinquennium? A Member of Parliament is both a specialist of what he or she knows and a generalist of other subjects. Why is the local elected office the only one banned in this House? It's a mistake. Of course, it was a good feeling, Mrs Untermaier, to fight against excessive baronies, because being mayor of the main city of the department – the constituencies were not divided in the same way – made it possible to secure its seat for sure and, indeed, not to perform the two functions. Let us, however, take the example of Sophie Métadier, one of the last MPs to join us, following the departure of Sophie Auconia. Mayor of a small rural commune, she practiced her profession, while presiding over the union of small communes. It now continues to defend them, but without knowing what is going on between them and the central administrations, which is a pity. In what way does this enrich Parliament by having torn it from the management of a commune of a few hundred inhabitants? On the contrary, all legitimacy is necessary for a parliament, or, to put it differently, as one of you mentioned: all opinions must be accepted here, which must include the diversity of experiences. Thus, we will very soon be considering the bill on differentiation, decentralization, deconcentration and various measures to simplify local public action, says 3DS – in this respect you have rightly mentioned, Mrs Kuster, the particular problem of the cities of Paris, Lyon and Marseille, particularly as regards the democratic organisation of the metropolis Aix-Marseille-Provence. The case of a metropolis headed by a person who lost the municipal elections in the main city and entered into an agreement with the majority to recentralize the powers of the municipalities to the metropolis, against the will of the mayors, would it not justify that the mayors could express themselves on these benches? The mayors of the intermediate cities located between Marseille and Aix no longer have the word and lose all power: this is the reality that none of them will be able to evoke in this Chamber, for lack of the right to sit there, even if they are mayor of a city of 4000 or 5000 inhabitants.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u133	You just did it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u134	Of course, but with much less opportunity to make the voice of these fictitious mayors heard than if they themselves could question each other in this House. This is not useful all the time and not everyone must be in this situation, but the fact that it is impossible helps to diminish the quality of the law that we are voting for. Finally, I fully agree with you, Mr Cazeneuve, that more comprehensive measures should be taken, but you are well aware that this House will not do so in this Parliament. We are therefore trying to move the debate forward on these issues.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u135	We have to change the majority!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u136	What will be the next assembly? Optimism is allowed to everyone, the majority as well as the opposition. I do not know if I will retain my mandate as a Member of Parliament, so I am trying to advance ideas in the assemblies in which I sit, rather than in those in which I hope to sit tomorrow. You are right, Mrs Florennes, and I thank you for your pertinent question: the answer will be plural. Indeed, the French are full of contradictions which must be taken into account but which must also be pointed out with pedagogy to them. It is quite unpleasant to hear systematically say that people are against the cumulation of mandates. That is true, but they want parliamentarians to have powers at the local level. It is therefore necessary to explain – in this respect, no one refuses the debate and we have already achieved our objective, that of making people think – that there are not necessarily difficulties related to conflicts of interest or the time available, that this is only one aspect among others that would not by itself be sufficient to reshape the whole of democracy. I simply invite you to acknowledge the existence of this contradiction. I did not meet many people who expressed criticism of those who had simultaneously served as mayor and as parliamentarians. As is often the case, people do not like a particular category of people, but appreciate their neighbour: this contradiction exists and must be taken into account. Finally, Mrs Florennes, I know that your group would have liked the President of the Republic to honour his promise to establish proportional representation during the quinquennium. However, if there is a case where it would be necessary to introduce a cumulation of mandates, it is if the partial or integral proportion was introduced.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u137	Oh!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u138	If the MPs were elected on a proportional basis, they should be able to combine that term with a local executive function, except for the risk that the elected officials would be completely out of the ground. A member elected on a proportional basis owes his or her term of office only to his or her party; So he's more interested in talking to him than to the public. If one day, as I wish, the National Assembly was elected by proportional ballot, the deputies would need to combine mandates. [[Mr Bruno Bilde acquiesce]] Finally, Mr. Bilde gave me the opportunity to think. Yes, the administration has increased its power since the end of the cumulation of mandates, I see it in my department I do not sue officials: the institutions guide the conduct of the administration. They have in front of them elected officials who have less political and electoral power; Therefore, they behave differently than the time when cumulation was allowed...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u139	Parliament's downsizing is the cause!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u140	...– Madam Deputy Minister, it is very difficult for a minister to ensure that he or she has control over his or her administration, whether deconcentrated or decentralized. It is not the Member of Parliament for the Seine-Saint-Denis who speaks, but the President of a political party and a political group. It was not the President of the Republic who wanted this situation, but the institutionalization of an imbalance in power relations created it. We can deny it. If I asked those who have the profession to study political life – I think academics and not actors – to observe this phenomenon, they would quickly realize it. I repeat, the proportional, of which you are one of the supporters, would worsen this weakening. You are right, there would be an interest in better representation of political opinion in the Chamber. In this case, the elected party must find a source of legitimacy other than that of its political party. In conclusion of this long answer...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u141	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u142	[[Smile on the benches of the Dem group]] Colleagues, if you want me to speak more, I can do it again. More seriously, this is our parliamentary niche, so let us manage our time as we wish.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u143	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u144	Several arguments have been made clear to those who want to think about them. I thank the speakers, who have not been caricatural with a few exceptions. Even if a new majority is elected next year, we must reflect on this issue in a more general and balanced way. Ms. Untermaier, you are part of the majority that passed the organic law prohibiting the cumulation of local executive functions with the term of office of a Member of Parliament or Senator. We could no doubt have found a balance before its adoption and we will not find it during this legislature; But it is necessary to determine it. No one will be able to challenge some of the arguments I have put forward in support of the possibility of exercising both a parliamentary mandate and a limited local responsibility. In the worst case scenario, if you do not want the parliamentary term to be combined with the office of mayor, it could be combined with that of deputy. Why can't we be delegated municipal councillors at the same time as parliamentarians? It makes no sense, it is an ideological position that is harmful to the exercise of parliamentary work. We had discussions on aquatic management and flood prevention – GEMAPI; God knows this subject is complicated! It is better to have your hands in the cambodia from time to time to check that the standards we adopt are not out of step with real life. Finally, given that everyone has handed over their own small institutional layer, we are advocating for a right to differentiation – I am speaking to you, Madam Deputy Minister: it was promised to be introduced during this legislature, but that was not the case. The yellow vest movement provided an opportunity to amend the Constitution, including through referendum, as several political forces agreed. If the right to differentiation is ever introduced, it will require parliamentarians to combine local responsibilities in order to make the differences between the territories heard and felt. Indeed, a border territory differs from a central territory, and an urban territory from a rural territory. That is why there are so many constituencies. Cumulativeity must be measured and limited, including on the issue of remuneration on which I have tabled an amendment. We cannot tell the French that we are in favour of adding both duties and allowances. I am opposed to the fact that this provision is not constitutional; I reply that I prefer to let the Constitutional Council do its job. It can be understood that a parliamentarian can exercise local mandates without being compensated because, after all, he is already doing so for full-time work.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u145	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u146	Your very succinct comments – if you allow me this trait of humor – open a broad debate...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u147	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u148	[[Mr Pascal Brindeau exclaimed]] ...on fundamental matters, no one can deny it, directly related to our representative assemblies, and that you do not deal with in the bill. In addition, you are denouncing the fact that the office of minister is combined with the local mandate, as is Mrs Kuster, without providing for a ban. You are asking us to table an amendment on a bill that the Government is opposed to; So we're not going to drop them off. However, on several occasions, the majority and the Government have indicated their desire to hold a debate on all the issues that you have addressed, as part of a comprehensive reflection. Today, it is premature to take decisions to meet the expectations of our fellow citizens regarding electoral participation and representative assemblies. We do not say that Parliament should not be representative of civil society and local elected representatives; He is. Here, parliamentarians come from civil society, such as those in liberal professions, or have been elected local. Among them, some were mayors and chose between their parliamentary mandate and their local mandate. The chairman of the delegation to local authorities and decentralization, Jean-René Cazeneuve, who served as mayor, had to make this choice. The representativeness of this assembly, which you call of your wishes, is respected. A member of Parliament is elected from one constituency and not from a single municipality. You are a member of an electoral district with three communes, while some have fifty, one hundred...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u149	Two hundred and ninety-four!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u150	[[Mrs Christine Hennion and Messrs. Guillaume Kasbarian and Jacques Marilossian applaud]] [[Same movements]] ...or maybe two hundred. You don't have to mix everything: when you're a member of Parliament, you're not disconnected. Your comments – and not your bill – suggest that a Member of Parliament who does not hold a local office is out of the ground; I am deeply convinced that he is not. As Mr Cazeneuve pointed out, MEPs are on the ground and in direct contact with local institutions, economic actors, the associations and our fellow citizens. Thus, when elected as a Member of Parliament, one is elected locally while acting globally for French society and for a whole country; We have been able to demonstrate this during these four years of mandate. [[Mr Pascal Brindeau exclaimed]] [[The Chair of the Law Committee and Mrs Monique Limon applaud]] Mr. President Lagarde, I have been a member of Parliament, I am today a minister delegated to the Minister for Territorial Cohesion and Relations with Local and Regional Authorities, who is responsible for the city, when I have never been mayor. By multiplying the contracting devices, which are, in a way, tools of differentiation, we are not next to the plate. We are moving in the right direction with the elected representatives: when we implement programmes such as Action coeur de ville or Small cities of tomorrow, we are not next to the plaque. Mrs Buffet, you have recalled your position which is not new. Mrs Florennes has indicated our agreement on the need to revitalize our democracy in order to combat abstention. The debate must be part of a much broader reflection; I mentioned it in my opening remarks. The fact-finding mission aimed at identifying the powers of abstention and measures to strengthen electoral participation, launched by President Ferrand, looks at these issues in a comprehensive manner; Let us not draw hasty conclusions. That is why, Mr Lagarde, the debate you are proposing today is interesting but premature.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u151	It is not premature to criticize the Fifth Republic!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u152	I will end my remarks by replying to the Member of Parliament Lachaud, who, together with his group La France insoumée, once again mixes everything.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u153	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u154	He said he was against the cumulation of mandates while asking for more power. In your remarks, you take the opportunity to insult the presidential majority.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u155	It's pretty common!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u156	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Your contempt and condescendence are not worthy of democratic debate. You look at the socio-professional category of the majority and you take advantage of it to shed hatred against success, which I fight every day in our neighborhoods.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u157	Hallucinant!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u158	We must not be against success and ambition; success must be seen as it is and not as a question of what we are, of our history, of our journey, of the social origins of our parents or of the difficulties encountered. Member of Parliament, success makes it possible to get out of resignation, this house arrest in which you and your group want to lock up the poor classes and the popular classes. Ladies and gentlemen, I also say to our fellow citizens: do not let anyone question what you are and what you have done. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] To return to the bill that you are considering today, we are not opposed to this debate, as we have told you. The arguments you have presented are not such as to convince us; We are therefore not in favour of your text. The debate continues and I am very happy to take part, provided that we respect each other.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u159	I now call the articles of the bill in the text originally before the House, since the committee has not adopted any text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u160	Three speakers are inscribed in the statement. Mrs Aurore Bergé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u161	Mr rapporteur, you are weakening the role of a Member of the European Parliament in every word you have said; I'm bent on that. You consider that we are neither effective nor useful. Your only argument is that we would only become a member of Parliament if we combined our mandate as a member of Parliament with another elected office, that of mayor. As if this combination alone made it possible to carry out actions at the service of the French.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u162	That's not what he said!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u163	That's exactly what he said!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u164	Yes, that's exactly what was said. What provisions, resulting from proposals from parliamentarians, have we voted in recent months? We have passed the bill creating the position of principal or principal of school, defended by a former principal assistant; an amendment to strengthen the rights of owners in the event of squatters, tabled by a member from civil society; the proposal for a law to ensure the revalorisation of the lowest agricultural retirement pensions, drafted by an elected member of a rural territory...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u165	What does that have to do with it?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u166	... comprising 219 communes – it would be difficult for him to choose the municipality of which he could be mayor; the proposal for a law in favour of the involvement of associations and the proposal for a law to improve the cash flow of associations, defended by deputies engaged in associations;...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u167	But this has nothing to do with it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u168	[[Exclaims on the benches of the IDU-I group]] ... the bill prohibiting practices aimed at changing a person's sexual orientation or gender identity, introduced by a Member of Parliament who makes this struggle the fight against his or her parliamentary mandate; the bill to change the training of midwife, submitted by a doctor and a former nurse anaesthetist. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Mr Lagarde, the anchoring is not linked to the office of mayor. There are no instructions for use when you become a member of Parliament. The mandate of a Member of Parliament is what you do with it, it is the measures that you defend. These actions are supported on a daily basis by the parliamentary majority. Being in the field, it's not invented and it's not because you're mayor that you're necessarily going through it; However, we are there every day. It is through the territorial anchoring that we have been able to establish that our bills, which have been passed, are being implemented today.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u169	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u170	[[Laughs on the benches of the IDU-I group]] [[Applause on the benches of the IDU-I group]] I hear your remarks, Mrs Bergé: in the end, the majority would be composed only of parliamentarians who have taken advantage of their professional and field experience, in order to advance France. In this case, explain to me why so many of your colleagues were candidates in the municipal elections in 2020 – with the success we know, the rest, which probably explains why they remained parliamentarians... Explain to me why so many colleagues from the majority were also candidates for regional and departmental elections – with, again, the success we know, which explains that they remained parliamentarians! Colleagues of the majority, it happens that being a Member of Parliament and a member of a local executive is just as useful for France!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u171	Mrs Geraldine Bannier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u172	Since the beginning of the legislature, we have been told ad nauseam that we would be disconnected and out of the ground. This is all the more unbearable for those of us who have been elected local: having been mayor of a small commune, Mr rapporteur, I would like to set a counter-example of the situation that you have now set out by saying that the mayors of small communes can no longer be elected deputies. That's the opposite! Previously, in my department, one had to be mayor of one of the three main municipalities in order to become a member of parliament. From now on, it has become possible to be a member of parliament and elected from a small commune. I sat yesterday again on a municipal council and, as a community councillor, I take part every month in the council of the public institution of inter-municipal cooperation (EPCI); So I know the local files perfectly. You show very little appreciation to the municipal, departmental and regional councillors, whose mandates allow them to know the local life and the life of the communities. Your idea isn't good. If you again allow mayors of communes with more than 10,000 inhabitants to combine their term with that of deputy, it is precisely they who will be elected deputies, to the detriment of mayors of small communes! [[Applause on the benches of the Dem and LaREM groups]] We are anchored in the territory, based on our experiences. Hear this, because it is simply wrong to pretend that Members are out of the ground and disconnected!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u173	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u174	Mr M'jid El Guerrab has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u175	I thank President Lagarde for opening this exciting debate that concerns us, although it is probably not among the first concerns of our fellow citizens. He asked the question of the office of parliamentarian. There are two opposing visions: first, that of the deputy mayor who, at the time, often led a large commune – it was a local baron, according to the expression of Mr. Bilde, a mayor anchored in his commune who fulfilled five or even six terms of office as MP and mayor. But since 2014, this is no longer possible. During this legislature, we have experienced the other vision and see all the virtues: MPs do their job as MPs,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u176	It's not a job!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u177	... monitor the action of the Government and call upon it when necessary, evaluate public policies and, above all, vote the laws. In spite of this, since you mentioned trolls and social networks, it must be noted that there are few Members in the Chamber in important votes, for example on the health pass. That is what our fellow citizens are wondering: a full-time Member of Parliament already has so many activities that he is not always in a position to sit in the Chamber, and that must be explained. As for the question of the means available to him to monitor the Government's action, it is a matter of fact, and I agree with you; I wrote a 300-page book on the subject last year, which I recommend you read!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u178	You're not telling us where he's on sale?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u179	You're advertising yourself now!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u180	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u181	Like Mr. El Guerrab...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u182	Do you, too, have a book for sale?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u183	From the beginning, your contribution to the debate through interjections is decisively very constructive, dear colleague... Ms Bergé's comments did not seem to me to reflect those of the group speakers. You want to make it appear that our proposal is our only objective and concerns the only problem in our democracy. I repeat that, if only because you have not changed the legislation and the organisation of powers, the group that I chair, which has eighteen Members, has the right to control the Assembly's agenda only for – stand still – twelve to thirteen hours a year. However, we can only devote this day to one subject, because we have several institutional proposals. The constitutional debate was aborted by the Benalla case; However, we had proposals to make. Did the majority wish to reopen it, either on their own initiative or according to that of the Head of State? No. So don't give us lessons by pretending that this would be our only concern; It was up to you to make this debate more thorough. I did not say, Mrs Bannier, that cumulation with a mayor's term was the only way to be a Member of Parliament; On the other hand, let me be told why only this way is forbidden! What is the good argument that this occupation is the only one that the deputies of the Republic cannot exercise? That's all. Mr. El Guerrab, who represents the French established outside France, cannot combine his mandate with a local executive function; This is proof that there are other ways to be a Member of Parliament, no one disputes it! Why, in this debate, should we give in to caricature?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u184	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u185	I didn't caricature anyone. I also measure the suffering – which I did not realize – that appears in the comments and reactions of some Members of the majority: you are constantly repressing the phrases "out-of-ground" and "disconnected", but did I say that?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u186	Yes.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u187	We talked about it together, Mr.Cazereuve: agree that the purpose of this text is not to bring this case! If not, I could give another speech in the gallery... But no, it's not about this trial. I don't care about the elections that will take place in seven months. I'm trying to get some thinking forward. Mrs Bergé has given us a self-satisfaction of the Members of the majority, depending on the action of one or another.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u188	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u189	[[Mr Pascal Brindeau applauds]] Since I do not know anything about the functioning of a parliament or of a government, I imagine that the Government has never, at any time, supported, favoured or solicited a deputy. And since you have talked about it, even if the debate will not take place here, let us remember that while an anti-squatter measure was adopted, reverse instruction was given at the same time to all the prefects of France not to expel anyone without relocation, including squatters!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u190	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u191	Anything! You don't know your files!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u192	For this reason, without contact with the local elected officials, who denounced this situation, I could not have mentioned it here. [[Applause on several benches in the IUD-I group]] It goes without saying, Mr El Guerrab, that the Members of Parliament are doing their job! I'd almost say it had nothing to do with it. The work of Members cannot be measured by their presence in the Chamber. In a ministry, in a constituency, in meetings, Members do their job, which is not limited to the Chamber – we all know it here, even if we struggle very hard against an image. At the time when the cumulation of mandates was allowed, the niches of Parliament attracted as many Members as today. We're never 577 here! Moreover, we must tell the French – I say at the foot of the gallery, Mrs Bergé, rather than demagogy – that the work of a Member of Parliament does not consist of being systematically in the Chamber. As our work is organised, we may not be able to participate in certain votes because they are not scheduled. No Member of Parliament, in the majority as in the opposition, during this Parliament as in the previous one, spends all his time in the Chamber, because that is not his function. Some of them, who are permanent today, sit to guarantee a majority, but their colleagues who are absent are also working. Let's stop providing the sticks to those who want to beat us! To remain in the Chamber is not just a Member's function. Even when MPs were exercising other mandates, Mr El Guerrab, they were working! I, for my part, never blamed a Member of Parliament for not working. On the other hand, the diversity of the sources of inspiration for Members' action can be questioned. I would add that our proposal provides exactly the opposite of the political situation that you described, as Mrs Bannier did. We do not ask that the elected representatives of the largest cities – you could, if you want, set the limit to 5000 inhabitants, although it is very difficult for the mayor of a city of this size to make it appear that he controls a constituency of 125,000 to 150,000 inhabitants – have the right to cumulate mandates, because they already have access to the major administrations and the media more easily than local elected officials; On the other hand, they are the only ones permanently ejected from this House. Everyone has the right to stand there except them, if they want to continue their activity. Finally, I would like the expression "civil society" to be banned from the Chamber.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u193	Oh, good!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u194	[[Claims on several banks of the LaREM Group]] [[Applause on several benches in the IUD-I group]] I don't know where, what nobility I come from not to be civil society. This happened to me: at the age of 33, I was elected. Wasn't I previously a member of civil society? And wouldn't I be because I'm elected? In that case, no one is from civil society here! This expression is also a stick to make us beat, and I think we need to ban it from our political debates. I don't know anyone here who is civil society: you have all been parliamentarians for four and a half years, some for even longer, but that doesn't make us out of the ground!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u195	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor to support Amendment No 8, which seeks to delete Rule 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u196	Indeed; I apologized for its radical nature, but you will understand that I do not withdraw it because the debate took place...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u197	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u198	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] ... and everything was said; The rest would bring nothing more. I want to stress one point. It is clear from our discussions that the local role of the MP needs to be better defined.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u199	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u200	[[Applause on several benches of the Dem group]] We have not done so in the wake of the non-accumulation of mandates, and I agree with you that this process has not been completed. Nevertheless, we must pursue it, not by going back to non-accumulation, but by organizing the capacity of Members to work in the territories, with or against the executive, if any. From this point of view, we should be able to carry out in situ checks on the application of the laws we are voting on, rather than saying as you do, Mr rapporteur, that we are setting the standard but that we do not have to apply it. Precisely, we do not want to make the standard and apply it, because that is where the conflict of interest lies. We make the norm taking into account the terrain, the hearings, the dialogue between colleagues; Then we will monitor its implementation by meeting with the mayor, prefect, prosecutor or court president, asking them what they think about the implementation of the important texts we have voted for and what is happening in the day-to-day exercise of their work. Where I join you is that it is very difficult to do so. We should therefore bring together our strengths and establish a mechanism that reinforces the local role of the MP – because it obviously corresponds to a reality. You all have permanences, you work in your territories. We must not see a personal attack behind the non-accumulation of mandates. You've all been elected and you're all doing your job, no matter where you come from, from civil society or not. In any event, the priority of the priorities must be to reflect on parliamentary democracy and its role in the territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u201	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u202	It is obviously unfavorable. Everything would have been said, announces to us Mrs Untermaier; I don't believe it. Some amendments are intended to cover secondary functions other than mayor, president of local executive or deputy and should be considered. On the other hand, if this amendment were adopted, it would mean that the question that was the one of the President of the Republic in 2019 – is there a debate? – and the comments of both of them recognizing that the problem arises even if it is not to be dealt with in this way, were not sincere, since it would be to interrupt the debate. Today we do not take time for anyone, since this unique and annual day is dedicated to us. I therefore believe that it is necessary to reject this amendment so that we have the right to debate. Otherwise, everyone would recognize that the problem exists while refusing to discuss it; That would be regrettable – it would even be a form of hypocrisy. You have already announced that you will not withdraw the amendment; I therefore ask the House to reject it so that the debate can continue – unless it disturbs.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u203	[["And Mrs. Minister! » on the benches of the IDU-I group]] I have received numerous requests for the floor, and I shall confine myself to three statements, namely, in order of order, Mr Cazeneuve, Mr Lachaud and Mrs Buffet.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u204	We must look everywhere in the Chamber, Mr President!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u205	[[Claims on several benches in the IDU-I group]] I fully respect this niche of the IDU and independent group, that is not the issue. Simply, we have rules of procedure that we can't stand free from. Please, ladies and gentlemen, the floor is now open to the Deputy Minister to give the Government's opinion on the deletion amendment. We will then advise on other requests for statements.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u206	He's a speaker for, a speaker against, not three!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u207	Mrs Untermaier, I agree with you that the separation between the legislative and executive branches of government makes it possible to better assess the effectiveness of laws passed in Parliament and to monitor how they are applied in the territories, thanks to the action taken by the Government. The Government's position on this bill as a whole should naturally lead me to give a favourable opinion on this deletion amendment. However, I hear the expressed willingness to see the debates complete, which may give me the opportunity to respond to the questions raised by each other. You are well aware that the Government is in favour of democratic debate and respects parliamentarians. I therefore rely on the wisdom of your assembly: it is up to you, ladies and gentlemen, to decide whether our discussion should stop there or continue. (Mr. M'jid El Guerrab applauds.)
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u208	Mr Jean-René Cazeneuve has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u209	It is in accordance with the quality of our legislative work that I believe it would be necessary to judge the value of cumulation. And when I look at the record of this legislature, I think I can say, like Aurore Bergé, that what we have done is of excellent quality, even though it is no longer possible for us to combine parliamentary and local executive functions. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Let us go further, ladies and gentlemen: what was the situation during the previous parliamentary term when cumulation was the rule and the Assembly had a large number of mayors? Well, I have to see that there have never been so many laws against local territories and elected officials! I refer you to the law on the new territorial organization of the Republic (NOTRE) and the map of the major regions, the law on the modernization of territorial public action and the affirmation of metropolises (MAPTAM), the abolition of 10 billion euros of allocations to the local authorities!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u210	Who was then the Minister of Economy?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u211	If cumulation was panacea, such laws would not have been passed. That's not the only rule. To be linked to the land, you do not necessarily have to have been mayor for tens and tens of years and remain so. I ask the question: who is the most disconnected, the one who has been a Member of Parliament for decades or the one who has lived in a company, in a hospital, in an association and who brings his experience to this Chamber? The answer, of course, lies in the first option. Of course, it's not exclusive,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u212	Indeed, it is not exclusive!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u213	...but I believe that we must also recognize the strength of these realities. I mean,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u214	I'm going to ask you to close.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u215	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] ... we had planned not to vote in favour of this deletion amendment so that the debate could be held, but we now consider it to have taken place. It has been almost two hours since we started discussing this bill, and there are still other bills to be considered. I therefore propose you, ladies and gentlemen, to adopt it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u216	Mr Bastien Lachaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u217	[[Claims from several banks of the LaREM and Dem Group]] Madam Deputy Minister, I believe that you have not listened very well to my speech. It is not the fact that there are Members from the upper classes that I have criticized, I have simply deplored the fact that there are no Members from the popular classes.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u218	There are! Again, you're lying!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u219	There are no workers in this assembly! You mentioned the success but who called my colleagues "MPs bacca-2" or "MPs call center" if not the members of your majority who showed a nameless contempt for the poor and the MPs of the popular classes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u220	You're just lying!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u221	You also talked about the social elevator, but how do you want it to work when in the Seine-Saint-Denis, in my constituency, students have neither French nor English nor history since the beginning of the school year and that the only answer of the national administration and education is to say that there is no teacher and that there will be no teacher!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u222	But what does that have to do with it?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u223	[[Protests on several benches of the LaREM group]] Minister, how dare you boast of individual success when you have destroyed any possibility of republican success and ruined any social equality? You're a scandal!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u224	Expert word!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u225	It's shameful!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u226	Mrs Marie-George Buffet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u227	I believe that the debate, and I want to thank President Lagarde for opening it this morning, must continue and go beyond this bill to deal more comprehensively with the institutions of our Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u228	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u229	[["Yes! » on several benches of the IDU-I group]] The gap between our compatriots and political representation is widening, and there are several reasons for this, including, of course, our institutions themselves. The Fifth Republic is worn out, tired, and its drifts have accentuated the centralization around a presidential monarchy. Citizens must be given the power of initiative and decision-making power. We need to change our institutions. We must return to the quinquennium and to the reversal of the electoral calendar, which has weakened the role of MPs. We have to go to the proportional. Yes, we need a real debate on our institutions and I hope it will come to the agenda. [[Mr Hubert Wulfranc and Mrs Anne-Christine Lang applaud]] We also need to reflect ourselves on the political offer. Is this gap between our compatriots and political representation not also due to the fact that it is not strong enough, coherent and global for citizens to re-enthusiasm about politics? To be a Member of Parliament is, of course, to move the issues forward, of course, it is to vote the law, but it is also, excuse me for this expression, to make politics and bring a certain idea of society in the public debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u230	In order for all speakers in the groups to speak, I will give the floor to Mrs Brigitte Kuster and then to Mr Pascal Brindeau.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u231	The Deputy Minister has relied on the wisdom of the House, which is reflected in the majority's call for a vote in favour of the deletion amendment. It has become a tradition in our Chamber: in every parliamentary niche of a minority group, Article 1 is systematically deleted, which puts an end in the vast majority of cases to the debate. This morning, the debate has been taking place for two hours and it could continue for hours without much change because the institutions are worn out, as Mrs Buffet points out, and there are still aberrations, such as the ban on the cumulation of mayors and parliamentarians.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u232	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u233	I remind you that this bill comes from the Senate and if honourable senators have passed it, it is because they have good reason to do so: they are elected by a college of great voters, of which mayors are members, but they cannot be mayors. It is not today that we are going to solve the problem. We all agree, I think, that democratic governance should be restored. If the French have a disinterest or even a disgust or a rejection of politics, it is because they no longer know who does what. It is difficult for them to recognize the role of everyone, with the enlargement of regions and the development of inter-communities. As the deletion article is going to be adopted, I will not be able to defend my amendment which deals with the mayors of arrondissements or sectors of Paris, Lyon and Marseilles who are being imposed a double penalty, as I pointed out in the general discussion. I would like to have your position on this, minister: why can't they be so Members of Parliament? Some have been under previous legislatures – I am thinking of Claude Goasguen and Philippe Goujon – and I do not believe that this combination has prevented them from being good Members. [[Mr. Mansour Kamardine applauds]] Their mandate as deputy also allowed them to form counter-powers against the city hall of Paris, whereas if they had exercised their sole mandate as district mayor, they would not have had the same weight. However, there have been no counter-powers in Paris for years. It would therefore be useful to allow this cumulation to strengthen Parisian democracy.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u234	We're not just gonna do the law for Paris. You're not the center of the world!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u235	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u236	We agree on all the benches of this House to say, as Jean-Christophe Lagarde pointed out, that this debate is not limited to the bill that is before us this morning. It is a question of addressing all the ills, including those of an institutional nature, that our democracy suffers. Democracy also requires respect for the days of parliamentary initiative. It is up to the independent IDU group to decide freely whether this debate should last two hours or more. It is up to each group, during the day reserved for them, to choose the themes on which it wishes the discussion to focus. Only once a year. Philippe Séguin said that the role of the President of the National Assembly was to protect minorities from the excesses of the majority. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, if you adopted this deletion amendment, you would once again demonstrate what excesses you have fallen into since the beginning of this Parliament.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u237	Anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u238	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u239	Mrs. Kuster, you asked me about the district mayors. There is no objective reason for them to be exempted from the rule of non-cumulation with the parliamentary mandate, whether they are mayors in Lyon, Marseille or Paris.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u240	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u241	They have exactly the same powers...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u242	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u243	They exercise powers...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u244	Not the same as the other mayors!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u245	You ask me a question and I'll answer you, Mrs. Kuster. They do exercise skills, even if they are different. They participate in deliberative assemblies.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u246	But what a lack of knowledge!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u247	We believe that the prohibition of cumulation concerns local executive functions as a whole. I know you don't like it, ma'am, but that is our position.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u248	I have before me four amendments, Nos 11, 18, 12 and 19, which can be discussed jointly. The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No 11.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u249	No luck, ladies and gentlemen of the majority: it is not by getting rid of Article 1 that you will avoid the debate. Quite frankly, four and a half years ago, when I saw the new majority arrive, I thought that behavior would change. Accept the idea that we have never opposed any discussion by the various opposition groups, including those we are fighting against, because we believe that the bills discussed during the parliamentary days can be used to fuel the debate, especially since you do not have to make the law, that is to say, to vote on the texts that the Government is asking you to adopt. The deletion of Article 1, following Mr Cazeneuve's intervention, who did not fully defend the same position outside this House, has just shown that you do not want the debate to take place.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u250	It happened!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u251	[[Protests on a few benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Everyone seemed to say that it had to be more global and go beyond this bill, but the result of your vote proves that it bothers you. I don't know exactly why, but obviously, that is the case.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u252	That's incorrect!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u253	Lie! Lie!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u254	I take note of that. Was the question posed by the President of the Republic sincere or not? I do not know, it is always that the majority has decided and that everyone will be able to know in what direction.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u255	Amendment No 11 provides for the impossibility of cumulation of allowances in the event of cumulation of duties in Article 1, the deletion of which therefore renders the amendment irrelevant. I would nevertheless like to say – again, even if you feel that you are wasting your time, this is the time given to us to express our opinions – that the most unbearable to the French was undoubtedly the cumulation of the allowances resulting from that of the duties. Members of Parliament or senators are compensated: there is no reason for those who would simultaneously exercise another mandate to receive more. If the debate could proceed healthyly, it would therefore relate to the decision of the Senate to allow the cumulation of allowances, which the authors of this text did not want – I am thinking of Hervé Marseille, the chairman of the Senate group Union centriste. Too often, in the Chamber, the argument that such a measure would not be in conformity with the Constitution has been put forward, most often by the majority, sometimes by the Government: quite frankly, in general, Parliament would benefit from considering that only the Constitutional Council can decide on it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u256	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u257	We would thus cease to be constantly self-censored, without even having any certainty since the Constitutional Council sometimes changes its opinion; It is up to us to vote the law and to it to censor, if necessary, the provisions which it considers to be contrary to the Constitution. To return once again to the amendment, I withdraw it, since it is no longer necessary to be because of your decision to ban the debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u258	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor to support Amendment No 18.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u259	I also withdraw it, because it was intended to supplement the list drawn up by the rapporteur, and the deletion of Article 1 therefore renders it irrelevant. Finally, our colleagues in the majority are in complete contradiction because we were dealing with more technical aspects than the political debate, in the broad sense of the term, on the cumulation of functions – except that the single mandate will now be the rule for all, which would be a democratic mistake. Shouldn't we be able to discuss it again?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u260	Amendments Nos 12 by the rapporteur and 19 by Mr Pascal Brindeau were withdrawn.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u261	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 10 and 20. The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 10.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u262	If the debate could take place, this amendment should be considered. We have often been confronted with the risk of a conflict of interest: it is therefore intended that the term of office of Member of Parliament be incompatible with the functions of Chairman or Vice-Chairman of the Board of Directors of the National Centre for the Territorial Public Service (CNFPT), as well as with those of Chairman of the Board of Directors of a Territorial Public Service Management Centre. It is no longer about the mandates of mayor, deputy, deputy municipal councillor: circulate, there is nothing to see, you refuse to discuss it! I am talking here about functions that could perfectly fall to a Member even though he would not be elected local; I also referred earlier to the chairmanship of the board of directors of a social lessor, whether it takes the form of a public office or a mixed economy company (SEM). Under what questionable logic would it be refused to us, while we can run a business? [[Mr Jean-René Cazeneuve protested]] I repeat, the organic law of 14 February 2014 has gone too far. Only the elections are approaching, and the fear of the voters generates demagogy: we must not touch anything! That was your reaction, Mr. Cazeneuve! That is not what you told me about the spirit in which you would address this debate. Knowing why such functions are forbidden to us, it was worth discussing. I have heard you all say that it would be interesting to give more room to parliamentarians on the ground; In this case, once again, it is no longer a matter of local executive functions or allowances, but of allowing parliamentarians to sit on the board of a particular body, which would not be absurd. The Assembly appoints some of its members to represent it in such important bodies as the National Commission on Informatics and Freedoms (CNIL) or the National Commission for Commercial Development (CNAC)! We were simply trying to highlight inconsistencies in the law so that they could be examined, which would obviously be impossible, although I do not wish to withdraw this amendment. You tell us that a bunch of working groups have been or are going to be created, that everyone is thinking about democracy; However, by the end of the quinquennium and the legislature, nothing will be achieved in the Chamber. Perhaps you are right to expect a renewal of your mandate: the French will decide. In the meantime, I repeat, nothing has been done! One day someone will have to see these inconsistencies and the law will have to be amended. I recently met with the president of a company employing 800 people, who wants to join the ranks of parliamentarians: it makes no sense that he can, once elected, retain his current functions, but not assume them in an inter-municipal union, whose size and power are limited. That's absurd!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u263	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u264	[[Mrs Agnes Thill and Mr Mansour Kamardine applaud]] Through this debate, we wanted to denounce the contradictions of the law: beyond the electoral postures, I hope I have led some of my colleagues to reflect.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u265	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u266	So your amendment is still in place, Mr. Lagarde?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u267	Of course, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u268	Mr Pascal Brindeau's Amendment No 20 is being defended. The rapporteur's opinion is obviously in favour. What is the Government's opinion on these identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u269	Favourable! I anticipate the opinion of the Deputy Minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u270	You know all the friendship I have with you, Mr Kamardine, but I will be against these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u271	That's too bad!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u272	It would be unusual for a parliamentarian to chair the board of directors of a public institution, when he is supposed to evaluate the application by these institutions of laws passed by Parliament. Moreover, nothing prevents him from sitting on the same board as a mere member.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u273	It is our mission to monitor the action of the Government!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u274	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u275	Mr rapporteur, you have said that you do not understand that you can be a Member of Parliament while exercising a profession. Apart from cases of incompatibility, I do not see why it should be avoided: our profession is our safety net after an extremely complicated mandate, of which, except in rare blessed constituencies, there is no guarantee of renewal, because we are not senators. At the most, we would have liked to frame his exercise, find a way that it does not devour the mandate and thus guarantee the citizens that their Member is really involved. This need for guidance goes hand in hand with the need for reflection on conflicts of interest. Doctors or lawyers, when we discuss texts that concern us professionally, this is a problem. Once again, we must not exclude the exercise of a profession, which would lead to the professionalisation of politicians, but limit the amount of work that it involves – which is usually already done by Members – and fight the risk of conflict of interest.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u276	Mr Jean-René Cazeneuve has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u277	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Mr Lagarde, you argue that the mandate of a Member of Parliament would be compatible with a whole series of other functions: this may be true on paper, but not in fact. Do not imagine that a company or an association would continue to pay one of its employees, for example an engineer at Dassault Aviation, who became a member of parliament! In fact, most of us put their jobs in brackets to devote themselves exclusively to their mandate. You have to say it and say it again: MP is a full-time activity! [[Same movements]] On the other hand, we were very prepared for this debate, because many of us rightly believe that there are real questions about the role of the deputy, his local integration, his relations with local elected officials, with the prefecture and with the administration. We have discussed: only, Mr Lagarde, instead of giving a relatively concise opinion on each amendment, you have made the choice – which is a matter of your freedom that I respect – to intervene at length, addressing all aspects of the subject from the outset. After two and a half hours, it's called a debate!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u278	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u279	Mr Cazeneuve, you have invented the legislative time programmed for the niches of the opposition: this is a novation in relation to our Rules of Procedure, in any case in relation to the spirit in which it was drafted! You consent to the debate, provided you whistle at the end when you please do so. In democracy, it is a discourteous choice; At least accept your decision! Mrs Untermaier, you plead that Members should retain a balance of professional practice. Mr. Cazeneuve argued that their mandate was full-time; The law authorizes them to combine it with all kinds of activities, hence the institution of the Ethics Officer of the National Assembly, responsible in particular for preventing conflicts of interest. We are therefore swimming in hypocrisy: not all Members are fully committed to their mandate, for example, because they are allowed to continue to teach medicine or law. Don't tell the French about such bad things, at least not in this House! Finally, Madam Deputy Minister, your answer was not appropriate to these amendments. You say in substance that a parliamentarian cannot run a public institution, because it applies the law. Isn't a company doing the same? A Member of Parliament may be a member or head of a professional organisation: does the latter apply less of the law? To be a member – not even as president or vice-president – of the board of directors of a local public institution, what a spending of time, what a dramatic impossibility under the 2014 law, which everyone knows is nothing excessive! The supervisory board of a local mixed economy company (SEML) is even worse: you're a member of parliament, get out of there! All this gives a very balanced legislation, ladies and gentlemen, which does not deserve to be debated. In fact, I hope that you will have the opportunity to resume this debate, because it is necessary to remove from the law the exaggerations of 2014, which you did not want to see.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u280	We have completed our review of the articles of the proposed organic law. Since the articles and amendments containing the additional article were all deleted or rejected, it was not adopted.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u281	The next item is the debate on the proposal for a law introducing various provisions relating to officials and military personnel from overseas countries and territories (No 4554, 4694).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u282	Mrs Nicole Sanquer, Rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u283	It is marked by an ambivalent feeling that I present myself before you in the gallery. First of all, this feeling is a matter of pride: I have the chance to bring the words of fellow citizens who are suffering terrible injustices every day. It starts with appointments, with attentive and dismayed listening. We question the Government by all means in our possession, dozens of letters, multiple interventions, amendments: it is our work as parliamentarians. Philippe Dunoyer, Stéphanie Atger and I had the opportunity to prepare an information report specifically on the Temporary Retirement Allowance (ITR), the recommendations of which have been reflected in a bill that I have the honour to submit for your consideration. It is then a feeling of revolt that comes to me – yes, revolt, ladies and gentlemen! I have been particularly upset by the purely political positions taken by certain groups in committee. There is no policy when it comes to the distress and suffering of our fellow citizens. In particular, I would like to address the Group of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and Related Democrats, who claim that these measures are not relevant, that they are bandages and that they are not likely to provide a quick response. The injustices have persisted for seventy years and we have been calling on the Government for years. If we introduce this bill, it is because nothing has been done so far! The measures presented today, the result of several years of work on the ground, have been enriched by the various hearings of the parliamentary mission. The text is certainly not perfect, and I am convinced that the democratic debate can perfect it. I am delighted that many of my ultramarine colleagues have tabled amendments that reflect the evidence gathered. I come to the bottom of the text. Article 1 is intended to freeze the gradual termination of the ITR. This allowance, set up to compensate for the high cost of living overseas, has been totally diverted from its original purpose; She is now a victim of abuse. No one disputes that. On the other hand, everyone is campaigning for the emergence of an alternative system, based on an overcontribution on premiums and allowances. This was also the commitment of the then government, when the ITR reform came into force, with the establishment of a working group on the implementation of the alternative regime at the ITR. Except that, almost two years later, it was not an alternative system that emerged but a report concluding that the reform did not justify considering the creation of a substitute mechanism. You now understand, ladies and gentlemen, why this subject is very sensitive. The beneficiaries of today and tomorrow feel that they have been blurred by the state, which has failed to fulfil its commitment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u284	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u285	They have to pay for a few profitors while the existence of a mechanism that compensates for the cost of living overseas is more indispensable than ever. I would remind you that prices are on average 38.5 per cent higher in French Polynesia and 33 per cent higher in New Caledonia. We are confident, Madam Minister, that we will make good progress with you on this issue, which we absolutely need to resolve. The adoption of article 1 would send a strong signal on the reopening of discussions with the State and would be a guarantee of the confidence restored between the various interlocutors after a long silence. Can you take a step point on the progress of the work? The reform of the Centre for Material and Moral Interests (CIMM) in Article 2 proposes to incorporate the eligibility criteria into the law. The CIMM evaluates the membership of an officer in an ultramarine territory for the granting of an enhanced leave, transfer or RTI. However, this procedure feeds a strong sense of vexation among the agents who submit to it. They feel like they are passing an "ultramarine" test, while decisions can be totally contradictory from one jurisdiction to another. During the hearings of the parliamentary mission, the criticisms focused mainly on the arbitrariness of the decision, the lack of adversariality of the procedure and the unipersonality of the decision. The incorporation of the criteria into the law will help to guard against this arbitrariness by removing the discretion of the administration, the latter having to observe only the meeting of the criteria. The fact that the agent must prove that he or she belongs to his or her territory of origin on a recurring basis feeds and amplifies his or her resentment. That is why it is proposed that, once obtained, CIMM be acquired for the natives of our territories. In committee, I have heard that the establishment of legal criteria would run the risk of overturning the case law. I confirm it, and it's happy! In our parliamentary report, it is written black and white that the impossibility of referring to stabilized case law is a source of error. In fact, ladies and gentlemen, in the event of disagreement on the proposed criteria, you are free to table amendments to amend them. Some have done so, and I thank them for that. I would add that some of the current criteria are highly questionable, such as where children are born and where they attend school. The staff member temporarily assigned to Hexagon has no choice but to attend school there and has even less access to their place of birth. The place of registration on the lists of electors is also not a relevant criterion, except that it is normal to have to fly at each vote. I am not sure that the good practice guide proposed by the majority changes anything, as it is the result of an internal evaluation of state services. We come to Article 3 and the Ultramarine Military Installation Allowance (INSMET). Since the 1950s, military personnel in the overseas departments have received a nine-month pay bonus for their installation in the metropolitan area – twelve months for Guyanans. For Polynesians, Caledonians, Wallisians, Futunians and Mahorais, there's nothing!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u286	Not normal!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u287	Pacific communities, particularly French Polynesia, have one of the ratios of military recruits to the largest population in the country. These people risk their lives in the same way as others; Their commitment to the service of the homeland has no less value. I would also like to recall the ultimate sacrifice of Tanerii Mauri, Brigadier-Chief of the 1st Regiment of Fighters of Thierville-sur-Meuse, on December 28, 2020, as well as those of his brothers in arms; They remind us of the heavy cost paid by our armies to ensure the safety of all the French. Yet, discrimination has persisted for seventy years. The Minister of Armed Forces committed to harmonize the scheme and open it to members who are unjustly excluded from it: she did so for the first time in February 2019 and a second time in October 2021, announcing a draft decree to be published in January 2022. We hope that the process will succeed this time, and we will be extremely grateful for it; However, inclusion in the law would allow the number of beneficiaries and the financial burden to be taken into account.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u288	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u289	On the other hand, and unless I am mistaken, no mention of this new expenditure is made in the budget documents for 2022. Harmonisation would therefore take place on a constant budget; In other words, it is on the other ultramarine territories that the weight of the correction of injustice would rest. You don't solve an injustice by creating another one, minister. Solidarity must be national and not just ultramarine, because it is good for the entire nation that our soldiers commit themselves. Article 4 calls for the submission of a report on the vocational retraining arrangements of Pacific military personnel. Many of them do not have the mechanisms deployed in metropolitan France, while the state civil service in French Polynesia has 11,000 posts. This issue would require further analysis. The majority will reply that it could be the subject of a parliamentary report. But this bill itself is a translation of a parliamentary report, which you sometimes make little use of, ladies and gentlemen, even though a member of the majority is the co-author. Perhaps a government report would find more thanks to you. Finally, Article 5 proposes to cover the travel expenses of military personnel so that they can travel to the territory where their ICMM is located every two years, following the model of enhanced leave for civil servants. [[Applause on the benches of the IDU-I group]] In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I do not claim to believe that this text is perfect; It is the very essence of the parliamentary debate that you are free to enrich it by means of amendments. I have the weakness to believe, on the other hand, that it reflects fairly faithfully the powerful resentment of many ultramarines deep within themselves.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u290	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u291	The Minister for Transformation and the Public Service has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u292	On behalf of the Government, I welcome the consideration of a bill introducing various provisions relating to overseas civil servants and military personnel. My colleague Sébastien Lecornu, Minister for Overseas Affairs, cannot be present with me, but be assured, ladies and gentlemen, of his ministry's full commitment to these issues. Before I begin, I would like to welcome the commitment of public officials working in or from the Overseas Territories and working in one of our public services, in the difficult health context we know. In keeping with the commitments made by the Prime Minister at this rostrum in July 2020, I have been entrusted with a mission essential to the proper functioning of our country: to territorialize the core of public policy that we are conducting, so that public action can make sense in each territory. The challenge for me is to carry out the transformation by ensuring that, in each territory, public action is adapted to the terrain and realities experienced by the inhabitants, with agents whose skills are relevant to meet the challenges posed everywhere. Territorialisation, of course, takes on a particular meaning in the ultramarine territories because national public policy is not conducted in the same way in Saint-Laurent-du-Maroni, Nouméa, Pointe-à-Pitre or Papeete, and it is not expected to have the same powers. Specificities historically justify statutory and compensatory features for overseas public services, the evolution of which must remain guided by criteria of impact and efficiency but also by the maintenance of a principle of equality and equity. I would like to pay tribute to the important parliamentary work carried out by, among others, Members Stéphanie Atger, Philippe Dunoyer and by yourself, Mrs Sanquer, which led to the drafting of several proposals in the information report on the reform of the temporary retirement allowance. You are proposing in section 1, Madam Member, that we return to the gradual termination of the ITR. You intend to draw the consequences of a report that shows that the termination of this system reduces the replacement rate for some staff members. The fear is that their economic situation will be weakened, in a context of expensive living. However, the Government does not wish to go back to the termination of the ITR, which was established in 1952 in order to compensate for the monetary gap between the mainland and the overseas region, where the CFA franc or the Pacific franc was then circulating. Since 2008, the termination of the ITR has been legible and predictable, allowing agents to know the reality of the amount of their pension in view of the decreasing ceiling between 2020 and 2028. I would add that the additional pension of the ITR is not accompanied by an over-contribution or even a condition of residence overseas during the activity of the public official. It applies only to State officials, with the exception of territorial and hospital public functions. It also covers only part of the ultramarine territories, since Guyana, Guadeloupe and Martinique are excluded. Finally, I say that it is decorated with the cost of living actually observed. For these reasons, the Government cannot support this article. Never since 2009, the interruption of this extinction has been put on the table. I would like to remind you here, because this extinction is fully justified. But the issue of the retirements of ultramarine civil servants deserves to be dealt with differently, taking into account the reality of these territories. I had discussions with you, the Member, and with your colleagues Stéphanie Atger and Philippe Dunoyer a few weeks ago. As the President of the Republic announced during his visit to Polynesia, Sébastien Lecornu, Minister for Overseas Affairs, will convene an advisory committee with two objectives: to share an objective diagnosis of the retirement pensions of public officials in these territories; develop, in the medium term, equitable solutions for the public service pension system in view of the consequences of the reform of the ITR. This committee will lead a partnership work, with experts, representatives of the territories and administrations and, of course, trade union representatives, on taking into account the over-payments, which are themselves justified by the cost of living, in the pensions of ultramarine civil servants. It will meet and provide initial responses in the first half of 2022. Ladies and gentlemen, this government is the first to undertake an assessment of the situation, with a view to providing adequate, concerted and comprehensive responses to the question of the cost of living and purchasing power of retired public servants overseas. The second article of the draft law deals with the conditions for granting ICES, providing for the inclusion in the law of an exhaustive list of criteria. This recognition allows in particular the granting of enhanced leave but also of a legal priority of assignment in mobilitys, established by the Programming Law on Real Equality Overseas of 28 February 2017. This new statutory assignment priority is of course being implemented by all departments. As Minister of Transformation and Public Service, it is my responsibility to ensure this. The terms and conditions for its implementation have been set out in each department's management guidelines. First of all, I would point out that the recognition of CIMM is already a real acceleration of transfer for the agents who request it, since their applications are twice as likely to succeed: 28 per cent of mobility applications made under CIMM result in an allocation compared to 15 per cent of other applications under other legal priorities. Today, the criteria for a public official to justify CIMM are actually set by regulation and, as you point out, leave a certain margin of appreciation to the public employer. Defining the reality of the ties that attach a person to a territory implies entering into the complexity and uniqueness of each personal, family, material and moral situation. It is a question of humanity before being a question of legal criteria. We have already called for a simplification of the establishment of the IMMC so that it remains valid for six years. This is a real step forward in terms of readability and predictability. We have published a guide for officers that presents the criteria, neither exhaustive nor cumulative. I told you about the results. We must ensure fair, equitable and transparent treatment of every request. That is why the answer you are proposing does not seem relevant. This concept of CIMM is by nature complex and covers too many situations. I am afraid that by defining too precisely the criteria in the law, we would be abusing excessive rigidity of the system, some of which would very legitimately require simplification in a few years' time. An overly broad allocation of ICES would also lead to the emptying of its substance of the very notion of legal priority of allocation. The many amendments tabled to this article show the difficulty of defining a precise and complete list of criteria. I now come to the provisions concerning the military. Article 3 concerns INSMET, which is paid to military personnel whose centre of moral and material interests is located in an overseas department, when they are designated to serve in metropolitan France following their entry into service or a transfer in the interest of service. Regulated by decree, it excluded until now, you recalled, the soldiers domiciled in New Caledonia, French Polynesia, the Wallis and Futuna islands, Saint-Pierre-et-Miquelon or Mayotte, and transferred for the first time to metropolis. These men and women who commit themselves sometimes pay a heavy price to defend our country. The result was a difference in treatment which was difficult to justify, since the hardships associated with the installation in the metropolis are generally the same for all ultramarine military personnel. This has led the Minister of Armed Forces, Florence Parly, to announce in this Chamber, in front of you, an unprecedented reform of the compensation scheme for the installation of ultramarine military personnel in metropolitan France. This reform was announced by the President of the Republic on 27 July during his speech in Papeete at the end of his visit to French Polynesia – some of you were present. The regulatory work on this issue is expected to be completed before the end of the year to be applied in 2022; this inequality will be corrected. You can count on my vigilance for its proper implementation. Article 4 provides for the submission by the Government of a report on the professional retraining of military personnel and former military personnel established in New Caledonia, French Polynesia or the Wallis and Futuna Islands. Quite honestly, the branches of the Defence Mobility Agency, opened by my colleague minister of armies in our territories to offer professional solutions and a future to those who served our armies, seem to me to be much more effective and concrete than a piece of legislation and a report. The figures speak for themselves: in three years, 170 military personnel were accompanied by the two Pacific Mobility Defence Branches. Finally, Article 5 provides for the extension of enhanced leave to military personnel. As you know, military personnel benefit from a device adapted to their specific characteristics and the hardships associated with their missions. This arrangement allows military personnel whose IMMC is located in an overseas department or community to receive their untaken permissions for a period of three years, up to a maximum of six months. It also provides the military and its family with the opportunity to receive back and forth transportation costs in this context. Therefore, the retention of article 5 does not appear to be relevant in this regard. For the above reasons, the Government is against your bill as a whole. Mrs Sanquer, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Commons – particularly Mrs Atger and Mr Dunoyer, whom I know to be particularly involved in all these matters – thank you for your extensive work. Of course, you can count on the entire Government, including the Minister of Transformation and Public Service whom I am and the Minister for Overseas Affairs, to respond in concrete terms to the expectations you have expressed. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] We intend to continue to build a public service that is like our society and that derives its legitimacy from its effectiveness in the territories. For the Overseas Minister and myself, it is crucial to promote the recruitment and mobility of public officials from overseas, both in the ultramarine territories and throughout the public service, and to ensure the attractiveness of these territories for those whose value is recognized and who intend to engage and serve where major economic and social challenges are to be met.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u293	In the general debate, Mr Philippe Dunoyer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u294	Overseas government officials and military personnel, particularly in Pacific communities, may be victims of unequal treatment compared to their Hexagon compatriots. This is a reality that originates in several legislative, regulatory or administrative sources. Unsurprisingly, these differences in treatment lead to incomprehensions and a legitimate sense of injustice among the population. This bill by our colleague Nicole Sanquer is intended to combat these injustices and to provide practical solutions to some of the problems that have long been identified, as you have pointed out, Minister, and to which we have been drawing the Government's attention for several years. On these issues, we are progressing step by step, and I have no doubt more than you that we are able to give them a positive outcome, today and in the coming weeks, particularly on the ITR. First of all, I would like to remind you of the situation of the soldiers from the Pacific. As you know, the place of the army is powerful there, its important will and its essential role, in particular in terms of training and job paths, through adapted military service (SMA). More than 800 young men and women from French Polynesia and Wallis-et-Futuna engage each year, making the Pacific a formidable recruiting pool for the army; These soldiers show the same dedication and commitment to the service of our country as their colleagues, a dedication and commitment that we must salute, encourage and value. That is why we consider that they should receive the same installation premium as their ultramarine colleagues when they are assigned to Hexagon, the cost of travel when they return to their home territory, and also the appropriate support at the time of their conversion. Since 1950, our regulations have provided for accompanying overseas military personnel when they are posted in metropolitan France, but, for some unknown reason, this accompaniment expressly excludes those from the Pacific. In this regard, I would like to associate myself with your thanks to the Minister of the Armed Forces, who made a commitment to remedy, by decree at the beginning of 2022, a seventy-one-year-old injustice. Section 3 of the bill seeks to ensure that we can jointly define the modalities for this correction. The budgetary obstacles that were pointed out at our hearings must be overcome, in order to avoid new misunderstandings. On the subject of enhanced leave, we have made progress, since the scheme was extended by a decree of 2 July 2020 to civil and military officials from Caledonia and Polynesia, in accordance with a long-standing request. Article 5 of the bill goes a little further by aligning the enhanced leave arrangements for military personnel with those for civilian officials. Another key topic is the proposed ICES Act, a very nice acronym that covers a series of criteria designed to establish a legal priority of assignment in these territories. As you said, a review of the application of these criteria was sent to us last week, which concludes, without surprise, that there is a satisfactory use, framed and clarified by case law. I would like to say, Madam Minister, that this is not the case. More than one element attests to this, if it is necessary. Firstly, this is the subject on which the greatest number of amendments have been tabled, notably by Olivier Serva, chairman of the overseas delegation, who is absent today but very much invested in this subject, as you know. An almost caricatural illustration of the subjective nature of these criteria is mentioned in the report that our colleague Stéphanie Atger and I have given: the same person has benefited from the ICES scheme for his invalidity pension, but has not benefited from it for his retirement pension. And this is just one example among others. It is important that we can go back to the application of these criteria, which are too often inconsistent and which give rise to decisions that fuel the misunderstanding or even anger of the agents concerned. That is why it is proposed to set the criteria in the legislation in order to put an end to differences of interpretation. I will conclude by referring to an important subject – they are all – which is of particular interest to me: that of the temporary retirement allowance. Since 2019, whether it is with the chairman of the delegation to overseas, or in the report for opinion on the appropriations of the Overseas Mission of the Finance Bill for 2020, or as part of the information report that we published on the reform of the ITR and that you were kind enough to recall earlier, we repeat that this subject needs special attention and vigilance. The report makes several observations: first, the reform of the ITR decided in 2008 was legitimate, and it must be recalled, because it was necessary to put an end to the effects of unacceptable bounties which allowed, for example, officials who had no connection with the Overseas Territories and had never worked there to choose to retire and to benefit from it. However, it should also be pointed out that these effects have now disappeared. From now on, no official is allowed to benefit from the ITR if he or she does not have a direct connection with our territories and cannot justify having completed at least 15 years of effective service there – this last criterion has been added. The expected budgetary impact, i.e. the reduction in the cost of the measure, has been validated on several occasions by the State. From now on, only officials from the ultramarine territories or who have been living there for a very long time will be eligible for the ITR, at least until the device has completely disappeared. This is the second and most worrying effect highlighted in the report. We were able to measure the replacement rate – that is, the amount of a person's retirement when he or she leaves the professional world – following the gradual disappearance of the ITR: while it is of the order of 60% to 65% in France and Europe, it will increase from about 73% to 40% in the ultramarine territories. More than a drastic decline, the purchasing power of former civil servants and new pensioners living in the ultramarine territories will fall by half, to the point that some of them plan to leave the territory where they were born to live their retirement elsewhere, given the very low level of retirement – they told us and I want to mention their testimonies here. Some of them will even receive pensions less than the minimum old age, although we have schemes equivalent to the minimum old age in our territories. The third point concerns the cost of living in our territories: our colleague Nicole Sanquer has pointed out that it is generally higher, from 33% to 37%. Ultramarine territories are those where life is most expensive: I deliberately take the example of food, for which the prices of products are 73 per cent higher in New Caledonia than in metropolitan France. In this context, and as legitimately as it is necessary to index the salaries of civil servants, temporary retirement allowance, or the introduction of a supplementary pension, is essential. This subject is expected by thousands of our compatriots, as you know, Madam Minister. We have recently crossed – I would like to thank you for this – an important course at the meeting that you mentioned and in which we participated, with Nicole Sanquer and Stéphanie Atger. This course is all the more essential as the government committed 13 years ago to engage in discussions with the ultramarine territories and trade union organizations. After thirteen years of forgetting, we hope to achieve concrete progress with you. We will be very attentive to the development of this issue. Turning to this bill, I would like to point out a point of vigilance: once we have introduced a supplementary contribution on the entire salary of public servants, we will not have provided a response to what can be called the sacrificed generation of those public servants who will not have time to contribute enough to compensate for this loss. But I know you've identified this problem very well. We must therefore make progress together on these issues. In this regard, the announcement of the forthcoming creation – the goal announced is the first half of 2022 – of an advisory committee, under the auspices of the Minister for Overseas Affairs and involving trade union organisations, is very good news. I will conclude by stressing that opportunities to address the issues of the military and overseas officials are quite rare in the Chamber. By submitting this bill for your consideration, we are defending the voices of our compatriots who face too many daily difficulties. I hope that our discussions will enable us to confront our ideas and address their legitimate concerns. [[Applause on the benches of the IDU-I group. – Mr Mansour Kamardine and Mrs Marie-George Buffet also applaud]] The IDU and independent group will of course vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u295	Mr Benoit Simian has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u296	More than ever, the ultramarine territories call for unwavering support from the state. Recent events in Guadeloupe or Martinique, such as the strike movement in Wallis-et-Futuna, have highlighted the persistent territorial and social divides in these regions. The Libertés et Territoires Group will fully support this bill, which helps to combat the unequal treatment of certain ultramarine civil servants and military personnel. In the overseas territories, both public officials and the rest of the population face more difficult living conditions than in Hexagon, with a significantly higher cost of living. In order to deal with these particular challenges, our group recalls that the State, as an employer, is bound by an obligation of exemplaryness: it must give fair support to its agents in order to avoid any stalling. I will start by reminding you of a little legislative history: at the end of 2008, Parliament voted to phase out the temporary retirement allowance; In return, an alternative mechanism had to be deployed: what has become of this provision, which has been adopted in this House? It simply remained a dead letter. Since then, thirteen years of unacceptable incurrence for ultramarine civil servants have passed. By re-establishing the ITR until an alternative is found, this bill would allow us to break this immobilization and remind the State of its commitments. In addition, our group supports the intention of the authors of this text to redefine by law the concept of the centre of moral and material interests, the famous CIMMs. This concept gives rise to several advantages: ITR, transfer, enhanced leave, payment of change of residence costs, etc. It is currently a source of misunderstanding for our overseas citizens. In this sense, the Libertés et Territoires Group deplores the opaque conditions for the examination of files by the central administration. We share the view of the delegation to the overseas countries and territories, chaired by our colleague Olivier Serva, who has highlighted sometimes shocking inconsistencies in the handling of cases. For example, on the basis of the IMMCs, the same officer's file was accepted for his disability pension but refused for his retirement pension. These contradictory answers, without explanation, in a word arbitrary, are no longer acceptable today. We can no longer give these agents "ultramarine" examinations. The legislator may, without encroaching on the regulatory field, include new criteria in the law. By proposing a more calibrated definition, the aim of this text is to limit the currently too wide scope for interpretation of the administration. I turn to the last part of this text, which concerns ultramarine military personnel. They must receive equivalent treatment: how can we accept that the installation allowance in metropolitan France is still not open under the same conditions to all these soldiers, regardless of their community of origin? This fight for equal treatment is dear to our colleague from Wallis-et-Futuna Sylvain Brial, whom I salute and who has been involved in this issue for a long time. He had thus alerted the Minister of Armed Forces in 2019 on the exclusion of Wallisians and Futunians from the settlement allowance in metropolitan France, ostracism which is perceived as injustice and discrimination by the hires and their families. Differences in status should not lead to the exclusion of ordinary law provisions, but to the introduction of suitable alternative arrangements. We take note of the announcement by the Minister of Armed Forces of the issuance of a decree to extend the scheme to currently excluded members. Nevertheless, Parliament should take the opportunity of this text to proceed without delay with this extension. We support the intention of the authors of this bill to ensure equal treatment for all military personnel, in order to strengthen the engagement of young ultramarines in our armies. Before I conclude, I would like to raise one last point: on Wednesday evening, our House voted in final reading on the second amending finance bill for 2021. This law introduces an inflation allowance of 100 euros for 38 million French. Once again, some French territories such as Wallis and Futuna, New Caledonia and French Polynesia are excluded from the measure. While I can understand the limits of the status of these territories, it is necessary, however, to develop an alternative arrangement in cooperation with them and to devote the budgetary resources to them; Otherwise, we would accentuate inequalities. I am nevertheless pleased, Madam Minister, that you have announced, following the visit of the President of the Republic, the organization of a round table in the coming months. [[Applause on the benches of the IDU-I group]] The Libertés et Territoires Group wishes to acknowledge the work of the rapporteur Nicole Sanquer – Mauruuru, Nicole, thank you! – and will vote in favour of the adoption of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u297	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u298	You set a good objective for this bill: better guarantee the equal treatment of civil servants and ultramarine military personnel. I am replacing my colleague Philippe Naillet to express the positive position of the Socialist and related group, which will vote for this text as it did in committee. It should be recalled that this bill aims, on three distinct subjects, to end differences in treatment of state officials and ultramarine military personnel. The first subject, dealt with in Chapter I, concerns the RTI, a pension supplement created in 1952 and abolished in 2008. At that time, the Government committed itself to considering alternative and compensatory measures for officials who were legitimately entitled to such compensation. However, more than ten years after the start of the reform, no compensation system has been introduced and the financial benefit of the abolition has not been returned to the territories concerned. The second issue relates to eligibility for the ICES scheme, which was introduced in 1984 and which the proposed law wishes to clarify. The law provides that if an applicant meets certain criteria, which will be included in the law, the administration will have to grant him the benefit of the scheme. The concept and criteria of the CIMM are the result of a jurisprudential construction that needs to be legalised. Finally, the government's promise that all overseas military personnel will benefit from the settlement allowance in metropolitan France should be realized, as the minister has committed herself. The State is far from being an exemplary employer for many ultramarines who have decided to devote their professional lives to its service and to that of the general interest and of all citizens of our country; This text will force him to be a little more. This bill does not respond to all emergencies, as we know, but it provides answers to some of the major challenges faced by public servants and ultramarine military personnel. I shall conclude by repeating a comment by my colleague Philippe Naillet, whom I share: we will have to go further and reflect on the supply of jobs and internships in the ultramarine territories, which, in general and recurrent, is much less attractive than in the Hexagone in terms of remuneration or allowances, in particular, while unemployment is close to 40% of the working population and 40% of the population lives below the poverty line. In any case, I would like to thank your parliamentary group and yourself, the rapporteur, for presenting this text, for which we will be very happy to vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u299	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-26-O1073.u300	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Further to the discussion of the proposal for a law introducing various provisions relating to officials and military personnel from overseas countries and territories; Discussion of the bill to create a platform for referral and care of chronic covid-19 patients; Discussion of the draft law for the employment of experienced workers until retirement; Discussion of the motion for a resolution to recognise the genocide of the Kurds in Iraq. The meeting is adjourned.
