ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-26-O1217.u1	The next item is the debate on the theme: "France in the face of the NBIC revolution: what place in the US-China match? " The Conference of Presidents decided to hold this debate in two parts. As a first step, we will hear speakers from the groups and then from the Government. We will then conduct a question-and-answer session. Mr Thomas Gassilloud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-26-O1217.u2	We are gathered today to discuss France's action in the field of NBICs – nanotechnologies, biotechnology, computer science and cognitive sciences – in the light of the Sino-American strategic competition. Indeed, the geopolitical dynamics between China and the United States will structure the Great Game of Nations for the next thirty years. We are already seeing illustrations on the diplomatic, commercial, and sometimes even military levels. First of all, I would like to thank the Chairman of the Group of the European People's Party, Olivier Becht, for choosing to put this topic on the agenda and for offering me to speak to indicate our group's position. During the second half of the 20th century, the era of the information revolution was marked by the convergence of information technologies, giving rise to a series of scientific disciplines, industrial processes, and services. The Internet, for example, which everyone here is well aware of the consequences in their daily lives, has emerged from this convergence. Similarly, research on the human genome, which continues to progress, is the result of the convergence between biology and information technology. Indeed, while the decryption of the genome was made possible by the increase in computing power, the information technology community, on the other hand, drew inspiration from advances in biology, inventing neural networks, swarm intelligence and DNA computers. The rapid emergence of cognitive sciences has led to a growing interaction between life sciences, computer science and engineering, and has given new impetus to artificial intelligence and robotics. As we can see, the technological advances allowed by the convergence of NBICs cause unprecedented disruption effects. They offer as many opportunities for the visionary strategist as risks for those who, out of fear or lack of ambition, remain behind the march of the world. It is sometimes difficult to identify the challenges of technologies with such significant disruption effects. Fiction then takes precedence over reality. In this regard, our collective imagination is abundant: from Terminator, the emancipated killer robot from man's tutelage to the Matrix – artificial intelligence exploiting man to make it a source of energy – to Hulk, an uncontrollable supersoldier to the modified genome, these references from popular culture are for us, political decision-makers, rich in teachings on the perception of technological ruptures.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-26-O1217.u3	How many times has reality not joined fiction!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-26-O1217.u4	The first is that if the development of a technology of rupture is not sufficiently mastered ethically and technically, it ends up harming man, his rights and nature. The second is that the conditions for healthy development can only emerge within an international framework – that is the foundation of multilateralism. This is the second lesson we are debating today: how to make France – and, behind it, Europe – a leader in the field of NBIC, so as not to be subjected to the pressures of the Chinese-American competition? In the race for power, the role played by technological competition is nothing new. Controlling the secret of bronze, iron, rudder, powder, steam machine, and then of the atom: this is what has rhythmed the history of the world, made and defeated empires, brought prosperous sovereignty to certain peoples and condemned others to vassality. For those who still doubt, let us recall that in 1957, Washington had trembled at the time of the launch of the Sputnik satellite. Faced with this technological Pearl Harbor, the United States then embarked on a space race. At the time, many Americans had not grasped the strategic issues, but all benefited from its scientific and technological benefits, such as GPS, television, satellite telephony and computing. Beyond the technological leap in each of these scientific disciplines, it is the convergence of the four – nanotechnologies, biotechnology, computer science and cognitive science – that offers unprecedented opportunities and raises new questions. We, human beings, are increasingly linked to technology: it is on a large scale that it enters our lives, through smartphones, activity trackers, social networks, online games or augmented reality glasses. These digital devices interfere with our private and social lives and have an increasing impact on human exchanges. Indeed, the interactions with the machines around us – video surveillance cameras, smart shoes, DNA chips, facial recognition technologies – allow us to characterize digitally, the data collected concerning our genetic heritage, our health, our feelings, our preferences, etc. At the same time, the importance of the interface between man and machine continues to increase, reducing the distance that existed so far between man's abilities and those of the machine. Thus, some robots can imitate human behaviour to the point of competing with humans in the labour market and in everyday life.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-26-O1217.u5	Happiness!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-26-O1217.u6	These robots, capable of automatic learning through experience, become autonomous; They have a huge memory capacity and develop an ability to reason. New machines with artificial intelligence will be used in expert systems, military command, diagnostic and decision support, and financial management. They will be able to recognize forms and words. Some machines can even express artificial emotions and solve complex problems. The dual advances offered by certain technologies also extend economic confrontation to new areas of competition: digital, robotics, artificial intelligence, very high-speed telecoms. Faced with these new developments, European states sometimes advance in dispersed order, with accumulated R&amp;D budgets – often undersized, especially in relation to Chinese and American efforts. These shortcomings are likely to deprive Europe of its residual advance and its influence in these areas. The risk of an irremediable downgrading, or even an erasure of the European continent in world affairs, can no longer be ruled out. The results of the covid-19 vaccine race are a good example and are a first warning: other continents have been more ambitious and stronger than us. Unlike ours, the ambitions of the People's Republic of China are immense. Again, the covid-19 pandemic revealed some of the Chinese regime's strategic ambitions and modes of action. Openly assuming its strategic rivalry with Washington, exploiting all the opportunities that existed, Beijing has developed over the last three years a diplomacy as active as it does aggressively, based on influence actions at the global level, and that its efforts in espionage and technological capture and the weight it now represents in economic and industrial matters have allowed to increase – not to mention its military resolution. Beijing intends to weigh more directly on global issues and to promote its strategic aspirations. Beyond an economic competitor, China has thus become a systemic rival for the European Union, but also a leading diplomatic partner, particularly on the climate issue. She took advantage of the pandemic to conduct health diplomacy and showcase her businesses and products. China's pharmaceutical industry ambition is part of the Made in China 2025 plan, which makes biotechnology one of the ten research priorities. The five-year plan for 2016-2020 presented pharmacy as one of the five priority industries, with particular emphasis on vaccines. On the other side of the Pacific, the digital revolution is largely caused by American companies, first among them the famous giants Google, Amazon, Facebook, Apple and Microsoft, the GAFAM. Their presence is overwhelming in online research, e-commerce, operating systems and platforms, which host and distribute content that conveys America's values. These companies thus assert themselves as one of the instruments of the American soft power. This dominance continues to grow, as Silicon Valley companies grow by absorbing newcomers, whose innovations may threaten them. The exponential nature of digital growth allows them to constantly widen the gap with their rivals who later arrived on the market. To complement this success, U.S. digital players want to master all the value chains in which they sign up. Their approach is comparable to the so-called pearl necklace strategy applied by China, which aims to ensure its supply of hydrocarbons through the acquisition of ports along maritime routes. U.S. companies have been able to make the necessary physical investments upstream of the value chain. Google, for example, has nearly 900000 servers, works with quantum computers and collaborates with NASA, the US Space Agency. To master their services globally, digital giants are now also investing in private Internet networks that combine security and performance. With this logic, American actors are able to harm their competitors or, at the very least, put them in a state of insecurity. Finally, globally, the United States dominates the synthetic biology sector. The dual nature of these research and technologies, which present both civilian and military applications, must therefore be seen from an operational point of view. So, in the face of these challenges, what must France do? First of all, it must give itself the means to its ambitions. The President of the Republic has announced an ambitious plan for artificial intelligence, and unveiled on 21 January the quantum plan, which aims to organize the country's industrial and research forces to make France a major player in quantum strategies. We also need to better identify the risks on supply chains, even if necessary, to develop our own channels. Some strategic industrial sectors need to be given special attention, which can go as far as capital support. Finally, in order to strengthen their sovereignty and assume their shared responsibilities, our European allies will have to increase their technological and industrial independence. [[Ms. Mireille Clapot applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, mastering the NBICs is not a simple option, either for France or for Europe, because it conditions our sovereignty, that is, our ability to decide by ourselves and to formulate our public policies, including the fight against climate change. May this debate contribute modestly to the awareness of each and every one of us, so that we may together build a better world for our children.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-26-O1217.u7	Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-26-O1217.u8	Nanotechnologies, biotechnology, computer science and cognitive sciences: these four words cause as much concern as they open doors to the future. In the eyes of the Communist deputies, the question of the race for progress poses a fundamental problem: ambitious private companies play to the sorcerer apprentices and impose the consequences of their findings on the peoples. But these findings are sometimes dangerous, and their consequences can never be known in advance. The development of these new technologies is not motivated by the pursuit of the good of humanity or the preservation of life on earth, but by the hope that they bring great value to the first companies that will be able to file patents. This undemocratic nature of basic research is extremely serious. For years, both in France and in the rest of the world, public research has been disinvested in basic research, leaving this field to private companies that engage in it without concern for ethical reflection, aiming not at the common good but at substantial benefits. In passing, I note a contradiction among those who, on the right, advocate conservatism in the field of bioethics: on the one hand, they support the freedom of the market and its invisible hand, but on the other, they are surprised that entrepreneurs-apprentices sorcerers do not give themselves any limits and lend no interest to the possible consequences of their discoveries. I therefore hope that this debate will allow some to accept the idea that, in a fully liberalised market, anything can happen. It is precisely for this reason that the Communists demand strong regulation of the market, coupled with a system of democratic validation. Only at this price can discussions on bioethics be held honestly. Such validation is fundamental: many citizens are offended by the imposition of new invasive technologies in their daily lives, such as 5G or Linky meters, even though the harmful nature of the waves from which they are source is not known, nor by a possible "drinking effect" due to long-term exposure and cumulated with other wireless networks such as wifi. How can we claim that such choices should not be the subject of a referendum? Technical progress must be part of tomorrow's democratic challenges. Robotization to limit hardness to work, yes, but robotization to eliminate jobs and to better control citizens, no! In this regard, what will the NBICs serve? Only naive people can believe that they are meant to improve the fate of the human being, because these technologies are primarily used to control the citizens. For example, in order to make 5G accept, which reduces the latency of Internet networks, it is claimed that it will allow immediate access to videos on mobile devices – that's what you're making the young people of France look forward to after purchasing it with phones – but its real purpose is to make facial recognition cameras work on a large scale and to collect, send and process data almost in real time, which is not possible with 4G. On this issue, we should have given the word to the people and let them decide, but you do not want it. The precautionary principle is systematically ringardized. The very formulation of the theme of our debate – "France in the face of the NBIC revolution: which place in the US-China match? – suggests that we are in a permanent confrontation. Do we have to start a crazy race to the precipice? Are we forced to do so because our neighbours, however powerful they may be, are running too? Could we not, in France or at European Union level, create a third path, that of improved technology for the benefit of people and of progress that would serve other than to control people and increase the profit of large companies? That is the subject of our debate, not to comment on a game. And if it's really a game, rather than taking the place of spectators or players, let's be the referees! Let us reinvest world diplomacy massively by affirming our vision of the world, of firm democratic values, and do not make neoliberal capitalism, which leads us straight into the wall, our only and only master. Rather than letting the obsessive of technology reign, let us be a democratic space in which informed choices are made. Let us embark on a third democratic path, resolutely oriented towards the future.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-26-O1217.u9	Mrs Mireille Clapot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-26-O1217.u10	In recent decades, the NBICs have grown dramatically. N for nanotechnology which manipulates atoms, B for biotechnology applying to genes, I for computer based on bits and C for cognitive sciences, based on the study of biological neurons. The famous convergence of these four technologies will allow us to enter into a new scientific or technological paradigm. NBICs are known to crystallize conflict between the United States and China. For Washington, technology occupies a cardinal role in the political tradition and construction of hegemony, but the GAFAMs have gradually emancipated themselves from American federal politics. In Beijing, since Deng Xiaopin, economic, social and geopolitical ambitions are anchored in a techno-scientific policy. The BATX – Baidu, Alibaba, Tencent and Xiaomi –, the Chinese equivalent of the GAFAM, are powerful relays of Chinese foreign policy. In both cases, NBICs are the cornerstone of the technological race. They open up exciting prospects for those who aspire to hegemony: economic prosperity, military supremacy, socio-political control of the population and prospects of resolving the environmental crisis without calling into question the capitalist production regime. Hence the particular importance given to artificial intelligence, which, according to Putin's word, will enable it to be the master of the world. The investments of these two giants are colossal. Artificial intelligence alone accounts for $1 billion of the $450 billion in US research and development, with a private investment of $60 billion from GAFAM. China spends $22 billion and sets a target of $60 billion by 2025. There is therefore political, economic and financial supremacy of the United States and China. What about Europe and France? The European Union has delayed the emergence of strategic research objectives and it is only recently that the European Commission has guided its policy according to a new doctrine: that of strategic autonomy and digital sovereignty. Of course, 8 billion euros are dedicated to digital in the future multi-annual financial framework 2021-2027 and 20% of the 750 billion euros foreseen in the European Recovery Plan will be allocated to digital, while the PIIEC – an important project of common European interest – for microelectronics is a success. Europe promotes major technological innovations such as 5G or artificial intelligence – about which the White Paper published in February 2020 focuses on ethics. We fully subscribe to this ambition, even if – it is not a great secret – the culture of data is far from widespread within the Union, whose agility is not the cardinal virtue. It will therefore be necessary to wait a little longer before a European ecosystem takes shape. France is therefore active in its sovereign levers, with the France Plan relaunching over two years, the IAPs, or future investment programmes, over five years, the strategies to accelerate the IAP 4 and, beyond that, the financing of the research that our recent law on research programming brings to 3% of GDP, i.e. 25 billion euros over ten years. We should also mention the deployment of an AI strategy – artificial intelligence – to the recognized success, the nano 2022 plan and a major plan for quantum technologies unveiled in January by the President of the Republic with €1.8 billion. Finally, cybersecurity, digital space and the cloud of trust should be priorities for the next French presidency of the European Union in 2022. I now turn to the societal aspect of these technologies, seen from a purely national perspective – it will be a kind of response to Mr Lecoq. Indeed, we need to ask ourselves an essential question for our fellow citizens: the NBICs, for what, in essence?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-26-O1217.u11	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-26-O1217.u12	Let me quote Pic de la Mirandole, who, in 1486 in his Address on the Dignity of Man, made the creator speak to man: "If we have not made you heavenly, earthly, mortal or immortal, it is so that, so to speak, endowed with the arbitral and honorary appeal to model and shape you yourself, you will give yourself the form that would have been your preference. The NBICs predict applications in the field of health, with predictive medicine and intelligent drugs, but also, and above all, an increased man with bionic limbs and artificial organs.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-26-O1217.u13	For the richest!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-26-O1217.u14	It opens the door to transhumanism, of which Pic de la Mirandole was the forerunner. More pessimistic, some of our fellow citizens are concerned about possible negative consequences: job losses, surveillance, manipulation, toxicity. We will probably have to convince them by showing them that they will live better and that the planet will be preserved. [[Mrs Maud Gatel applauds]] Yes, France, in a Europe that is well-founded and proud of its values, can hold its position in the NBIC sector, while standing aside from the American and Chinese platforms, in the interests of European citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-26-O1217.u15	We'll talk about it in fifty years, about the state of humanity!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-26-O1217.u16	Mrs Maud Gatel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-26-O1217.u17	First of all, I would like to thank the Group of the European People's Party for its inclusion in the agenda of this essential debate. Questioning France's place in the face of the NBIC revolution is, more broadly, questioning Europe's place and its autonomy in the strategic sectors of today and tomorrow, as well as our ability to regulate and impose our ethical standards in a complex international game. Conjugated, the NBICs will upset humanity. Their extensions appear both promising and promising when it comes to caring, informing and feeding, and potentially very threatening when it comes to transhumanism or the exploitation of data. At a time when technological revolutions are well underway in the United States and China, and international champions from outside Europe are emerging, the Union has been slow to realize the importance of the NBICs, the prospects they offer, and the threats they carry. However, a work of anticipation, regulation and supervision is imperative if we are to master the consequences of their development on the physiognomy of our future societies. European strategic autonomy is therefore at the heart of the debate on a development which, given its scale and intensity, is designated as the fourth industrial revolution. At the beginning of the year, the European Commission announced the creation of a European Observatory for Critical Technologies and the launch of an action plan called the "three-point belt", the aim of which is to promote Europe's strategic autonomy. These announcements echo the work launched since spring 2020 by Thierry Breton on the definition of industrial ecosystems and the lessons of a health crisis that acts as a revealing of our industrial weaknesses in the field of health, whether it is our ability to produce traditional medicines or our ability to innovate. If this dual dynamic of awareness in favour of industrial autonomy and the health sector is central, it is because one of the focal points of the NBICs, where many of the issues are concentrated, is human health. The biotechnology revolution came to light with the placing on the market of messenger RNA vaccines and the award of the Nobel Prize to Emmanuelle Charpentier. Some areas of medical research – nanopharmaceuticals, artificial cells, nanomaterials – are not just about biotechnology, but about the cross-breeding of NBICs. Each time, the technological challenges are compounded by ethical considerations: if we need to take the turn of innovation for health, we also need to promote and enforce our bioethics principles and prevent any drift. In fact, we find the same dilemma in more and more areas: justice – what about the right to be forgotten or copyright? – taxation – where, how and by whom to ensure the taxation of the wealth created? – culture – how to prevent the plundering of the value created by European artists? – or ethics – what changes to the immediate environment of man? Our action must therefore engage in a double movement. The first is regulation, so that the NBIC revolution is an ethical revolution, respectful of our values and of the human. This framework can be national – I am thinking of the law passed in 2019 on the initiative of Patrick Mignola to create a similar right for news agencies and press publishers – or European – such as the Audiovisual Media Services Directive. At the international level, a balance of power will have to be committed in order to preserve European independence and sovereignty and respect for our democratic model. The second movement is to stay at the forefront of innovation within the ethical framework that we have defined, which is reflected in the Scale-up Europe initiative launched earlier this month by the Government to promote European channels and champions. It is with the same objective that the Union has embarked on the task of strategic autonomy. Only proactive political action can bring out nuggets on our soil. [[Applause on the benches of the Action ens group. – Mrs Mireille Clapot also applauds]] The margin is as narrow as the breadth of the NBIC revolution. We are facing four technological areas where major technological leaps are being made and where the alliance opens the way to new fields of knowledge and action. We are facing international actors engaged in a significant economic and industrial turning point. We'll need some momentum. We'll need limits.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-26-O1217.u18	The Secretary of State for Digital Transition and Electronic Communications had the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-26-O1217.u19	I will begin by thanking MP Jean-Paul Lecoq. As you can imagine, we do not quite share the same position, but I would like to highlight its presence, which reflects a form of respect for democracy and public debate. Yesterday, I saw each other react to the speech of the President of the Republic. President Mélenchon enjoyed denigrating the vaccination strategy. It must be noted that when it comes to commenting on the French delay in vaccine production, there is always a world on the opposition side – which is normal to some extent – but there is much less, on the other hand, when it comes to participating in a debate on the root causes of France's delay in biotechnology and therefore in vaccine production. This morning, I don't see President Mélenchon. There is no one on the benches of the La France group, no one on those of the Socialist and related groups, no one on those of the group Les Républicains.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-26-O1217.u20	I'm alone!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-26-O1217.u21	Indeed, only the Communist Group is there among the opposition groups and this is explained, in a way, because I think that in the history of the Communist Party there is a special relationship with the technique, which goes beyond the mere framework of the technique. Of course, there is the majority, which I thank for choosing this debate on an essential subject. [[Ms Maud Gatel, Mr Thomas Gassilloud and Ms Anne Genetet applaud]] There is some inconsistency in the actions of politicians. It is too easy to comment on the French delay in vaccines on television sets and then to leave the Chamber when it comes to discussing such important subjects as technical progress, investment in research and the European delay in this field. Both would benefit from a degree of decency in political action. But let us come to the heart of the debate that is taking place today and that I would like to thank the Group of the European People's Party and the Group of the European People's Party for proposing. It raises complex questions, particularly given the existing social and geopolitical tensions, but absolutely decisive for the future of France and Europe. You will allow me to extend it to the research and technological competition of the major global groupings of the United States, China and Europe and some other countries. Whether we find it positive or not, the technological competition is very strong and that is where my position differs a little from yours, Mr Lecoq. As a member of a constituency that includes part of Le Havre, you are witnessing more than others, given the importance of maritime trade in international competition – but also intra-European, since the first competitors of the port of Le Havre are the ports of northern Europe. But you also know how important technological progress is, of course, progress to be conceived with respect for human beings and transitions. The risk, faced with the ports of Antwerp and Rotterdam, that Le Havre would run to not innovate, not to be at the cutting edge of technology, is unfortunately to be downgraded in the international competition. A few days ago, I was in this beautiful city to evoke 5G, which we consider to be an absolutely indispensable element of the competitiveness of the ports. While it is a matter of debate, I believe that the responsibility of policy makers is to take into account the world as it is and not as it would like it to be. Of course, we would all like to see a comprehensive international cooperation that would allow each country to focus on part of the research in order to maximize the gains for all. By the way, it would be interesting to know, from the point of view of economic theory, whether this model would be more effective than a model of competition, but no matter what, the reality is that we are in competition with the United States and China. The choices that we make today, the choices that we made yesterday, determine the future of our jobs, our sovereignty, our social models. If we look at the world as it is, we see that there is a technological competition, a competition in research as there has not been for several decades. We are witnessing an arms race, symbolized by the enormous investments of China and the United States in certain critical technologies – artificial intelligence, quantum, cloud and NBICs. More generally, as Thomas Gassilloud said, we are seeing a convergence of biotechnology, nanotechnologies and microelectronics. Countries compete to eventually acquire technological and economic supremacy. What is at stake for us is always our national sovereignty and the independence of Europe because both France and Europe are exposed to the risk of significant downgrading. I will quote a few figures to illustrate my point. In 2017, when Emmanuel Macron was elected President of the Republic, the differential investment in artificial intelligence between the United States on the one hand and Europe on the other was the same as that between Europe and China: a ratio of one to ten. The reasons for this are not the same, of course. In the United States, a capitalist market based on private initiative, investment is essentially of private origin. Realize that Amazon invests annually in research of the order of $20 to $22 billion, while French R&amp;D, as a whole, represents $60 billion. In other words, an American company alone provides one third of the resources devoted to research in France. China, for its part, is based on another model, based mainly on state investment. The risk we run is downgrading. France invests 2.83% of its GDP in R&amp;D, while Germany is already 3% and targets 3.5%. If we stick to this 2.83 per cent and the Germans go up to 3.5 per cent, it is 60 billion more dollars each year that they will spend on research, their industry, their future. In Europe, we are generally lagging behind, although in some areas we are still in the race. We can see it as the result of political choices made by the previous majorities that they must assume. In our view, political choices or non-choices are decisive, and that is why the Government has chosen from the outset to make the technological issue an extremely strong focus of its policy, sometimes being a little ridiculed, in particular, on the issue of digital technology. These are the sectoral plans on artificial intelligence, quantum, cybersecurity, biotechnology. More broadly, the research programming law represents an effort of more than €25 billion over ten years. Some felt that this ambition was insufficient – what did they draw from such conclusions when they were in power; For us, this historic investment in public research is absolutely indispensable. Let us not decide unconsciously to abandon our economy, our jobs, our sovereignty and our social model. The French social model is based on certain economic choices, of course, but also on inventiveness, creativity, the audacity of entrepreneurs, researchers, entrepreneurs and researchers who chose, at the end of the nineteenth century and at the beginning of the twentieth century, to devote themselves to rail, chemistry, aeronautics, and the aftermath of the Second World War, to nuclear energy. In fact, Mr. Lecoq, if a referendum had been held for him then,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-26-O1217.u22	That would have been a good thing!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-26-O1217.u23	...I do not think that the idea of investing so much money in the atom would have aroused great enthusiasm among the French population. And I'm not sure that without nuclear power, France would be what it is today, but it's another debate. Let's face it: we need to reinvest in R&amp;D and innovation and we need the private sector to do so too because what differentiates us from the powers of innovation is not public spending, which is higher in France than elsewhere, but private spending. As Jean-Paul Lecoq and Mireille Clapot pointed out, the question of the acceptability of technological progress has emerged in Western societies. Of course, it is decisive and we cannot continue on the road to innovation without taking the time to have a debate on it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-26-O1217.u24	Shit!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-26-O1217.u25	Having said that, I do not think that these problems can be resolved through referendums – I have already said my opinion on what would have happened if one had been organised on the nuclear issue. This requires lengthy, precise and contradictory debates.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-26-O1217.u26	On education too!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-26-O1217.u27	The next presidential election will, in my opinion, be the best democratic way to give everyone the opportunity to make the choice of their relationship to technological progress and short-term progress. This issue will occupy a central place in the electoral debate and artificial intelligence, 5G in the band of 26 gigahertz, biotechnology or nanotechnology will all be essential topics. It seems essential to me that France should return to a discourse of progress. I agree with most of the speakers that the alliance of an extremely strong ambition for research and innovation and human consideration must enable us to find a French path on these issues. However, this requires that we be able to have a calm debate and that we do not misapprove certain principles such as the precautionary principle. In an interview a few weeks ago, Professor Étienne Klein stressed that the precautionary principle should push for research and not block it. Make it a principle of refusal of progress,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-26-O1217.u28	But what do you mean by progress?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-26-O1217.u29	...a principle of fear is to mislead him in relation to his original philosophy. If we are not able to see lucidly what we have to win and what we have to lose, then we will find ourselves in the same situation as today with vaccines. France's difficulties in biotechnological research are partly the result of a departure from the precautionary principle. We've overweighted the risks in technological innovation processes, all biotechnology researchers will tell you. Why did Emmanuelle Charpentier, the last Frenchman to receive the Nobel Prize in Chemistry, go to Germany? One has to wonder why some sectors are exposed to a form of technological decommissioning.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-26-O1217.u30	Because the researchers are underpaid!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-26-O1217.u31	If we only address the issue of health innovation from a risk perspective then, at the end, it is the other countries that will produce the vaccines. Technological research is based on a lucid balance between risks and gains. And I think that's what the President of the Republic meant when he came back to the issue of risk in his speech yesterday. There is a risk report, a report on failure that we must find. We built our technological prosperity, our social prosperity through people who took risks. You had to dare get on a plane when it had just been invented.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-26-O1217.u32	Of course, but if it crashed, it didn't have any consequences for the entire planet!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-26-O1217.u33	The same applies to vaccines. If we refuse the risk, then we have to bear the consequences. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] I'm not going to dwell any longer on this subject that, as you see, I'm passionate about. I would like to reiterate once again the importance of this debate and to thank the majority and the Communist Group for their presence this morning. I have no doubt that we will have the opportunity to continue this debate beyond the set of questions and answers.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-26-O1217.u34	Mr Secretary of State, if I welcome the presence of Jean-Paul Lecoq, I must tell you that in the National Assembly it is not customary to take part in the elected representatives of the nation when they are not present in our Chamber. I would like us to move calmly to the second part of this debate. I would remind you that the length of questions and answers is limited to two minutes and there is no right of reply. Mr Pierre-Yves Bournazel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-26-O1217.u35	If the revolution in nanotechnology, biotechnology, computer science and cognitive science is a technical challenge, the answer lies in human capital. The technological locomotive of robotics, artificial intelligence or biotechnology is primarily fuelled by the brains of young researchers. To seize the NBIC train and not stay on the dockside of data producers subject to Sino-American supply, France must pursue an ambitious policy of training, guidance and loyalty. Major groups such as Facebook, Google, Samsung, Fujitsu or IBM have understood the potential of French talent and are betting to set up their new research and innovation centres on artificial intelligence in France. It is therefore essential, in order to support and convert French scientific work into competitive dividends, to develop, first, skills and human capital through initial and continuing training, then to create an environment conducive to the intensification of entrepreneurship and the transfer of technologies, and finally to promote attractiveness vis-à-vis international actors and the best talent worldwide. In this sense, France's strategy for artificial intelligence aims to attract the best talent by setting up a national programme for artificial intelligence, coordinated by INRIA – Institut national de recherche en sciences et technologies du numérique: doubling the number of students trained in artificial intelligence by the end of the quinquennium; strengthening synergies between public research and industry; creation of individual chairs to bring in the best researchers; launch calls for projects, finally, to attract the best research projects. The quantum plan should create 16,000 direct and indirect jobs by 2030. This rise will be based on different levels of training, combining initial, continuing, technical and research training. The aim is to train 5,000 new talent in quantum technology – technicians, engineers, doctors – and 1,700 young researchers, thanks to a doubling of the number of tests per year. Can you tell us what the Government's strategy is for the orientation, training and retention of brains? France and Europe remain poles of power, but we must not ignore the risk of a technological downgrading.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-26-O1217.u36	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-26-O1217.u37	You put your finger on the nodal point. The battle in artificial intelligence, as in research, is above all a battle for human intelligence. Historically, Europe and France are excellent researchers. However, they faced a twofold problem: they did not form enough of them and many of them, especially among the best, left. The core of the strategy in all the sectors you refer to is therefore to create the conditions for keeping the best researchers. What does that mean? First of all, to raise wages. That is why, as part of the artificial intelligence plan, we have created 270 doctorates, developed the number of chairs and made sure that the conditions for research in this field, for French or foreign researchers, are improved. The question of the salaries of researchers, particularly in the early years of their careers, is thus central to the PBRA – multi-year research programming law. The second element is the question of the environment and ecosystem in which a researcher is evolving. He decides to stay and work in a country if the ecosystem, the people he meets, the other researchers are at the right level. To give you an example, I recently met a researcher who came to work at a research centre – that of Facebook, I think. This Frenchman, who lived in the United States, came back to work in France on artificial intelligence precisely because Google, but also other companies, other researchers were present on the territory. The question of France's attractiveness to the best companies and research centres is therefore quite central. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM groups and Action ens]] That is why we are investing in training more people in the various sectors – quantum, artificial intelligence, cybersecurity – and we are working to encourage the investment of foreign companies, but also French companies, such as Clieo or Orange, to create a favourable environment that will enable us to attract and retain the best international talent.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-26-O1217.u38	You recognize that the salaries of researchers are too low! I want you to do the same for the other officials!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-26-O1217.u39	Mr Lecoq, we were delighted with your presence, do not abuse it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-26-O1217.u40	It is rare to see the Government admit that wages are too low!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-26-O1217.u41	Mrs Anne Genetet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-26-O1217.u42	NBIC: This acronym, which no one knows how to spell out, hides a fierce competition, from which France and Europe could be excluded. They face two giants who have put considerable resources on the table to develop their own tools and standards. We therefore need to define, in an urgent and coordinated manner, a European strategy that combines investment of consequence, competent personnel and installation of production sites. On this last aspect, the crisis of the Covid-19 highlighted our dependence. Without a massive and rapid European response, these will be crucial sectors of our daily lives that we will put in the hands of these two giants: health, education, defence, administration, applications are virtually unlimited. The French do not yet know the scope, but we must prepare for it. In order to deal with very important data flows, we will have to equip ourselves with adequate infrastructure, which means, in particular, to cover the entire national territory in very high speed, on the one hand – the President of the Republic had committed himself and the Government is working on this through the France Recovery Plan and I can testify that the fiber optics arrived in the small village of the Lot of which I am elected; On the other hand, we must equip ourselves with 5G relay antennas which, contrary to what the mayor Europe Ecology - Les Verts M. Éric Piolle may have said subtly, will serve something other than, I quote, "look at porn in the HD elevator". Our patients, waiting for state-of-the-art surgery, will appreciate it! In reply to our colleague Jean-Paul Lecoq, I would like to point out that the tool is not the problem, but rather the use that we make of it: thus, a hammer can be used to build a house, but also to rob it by breaking a window.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-26-O1217.u43	Let's talk about screw clamping!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-26-O1217.u44	Mr Secretary of State, how do you respond to the ideological, militant, and even electoralist rejection of 5G?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-26-O1217.u45	Oh, there!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-26-O1217.u46	That's aggressive!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-26-O1217.u47	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-26-O1217.u48	The arrival of 5G should be apprehended in a non-partisan and lucid manner. Twelve European countries deployed it before France, and the health authorities in these countries have addressed this issue, particularly in the northern countries, whose sensitivity to public health is known. These authorities validated it. Over the past fifty years, 27,000 studies have been carried out on electromagnetic waves. In fact, I do not agree with MP Jean-Paul Lecoq: no study recognized by the scientific community has ever considered that below the accepted threshold of exposure to the airwaves there was any risk to human health. However, in France, in Le Havre as in Paris or elsewhere, we are on average exposed to levels that are 150 to 200 times below the maximum level. The elected representatives of the various cities of France know this well, however partisan they may be, and we can only see in certain postures a form of role play – we are still looking for in Paris what the new charter signed by the operators contains different from the previous one! After having had to deal with the reluctance of some of their majority, all the cities have accessed the 5G deployment or are going to do so. And for a simple reason: within a year, 4G networks will reach saturation. Three choices will then be possible: let it be done, but I am not sure that the plates are ready for it; deploy more than 4G; or deploy 5G which, for the same bandwidth, consumes ten to twenty times less electricity. Based on a very basic environmental approach, we therefore need 5G. It will also be necessary for industrial development, for ports, for agriculture, for telemedicine in rural areas...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-26-O1217.u49	Not for the climate!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-26-O1217.u50	We have achieved greater serenity on the subject and I can only congratulate myself on it, as it is crucial for the French economy.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-26-O1217.u51	Mrs Anne Genetet has the floor on a second question.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-26-O1217.u52	Last year, France experienced a four-fold increase in the number of cyber attacks against its most sensitive companies and administrations. Since the beginning of the year, the attacks have become weekly and spare no one. Hospitals, on the front line to treat the patients of the covid -19 epidemic, have recently become the preferred targets of ransom, which consists of paralyzing the entire computer system from a structure until a ransom is paid. Last month, the personal and medical information of more than 500,000 Frenchmen, from some 30 medical analysis laboratories, was made public by hackers. These phenomena must alert us: they say something about the vulnerability of our economic fabric, our administration and our entire computer network. Two weeks ago, the fire at an OVH data centre showed how fragile this network was: more than 3.5 million websites, mostly French, were affected by the disaster. Mr Secretary of State, computer security is not a subject on which we can squeak. It concerns us all and will concern us more and more as connected objects, the decentralization of administrative services, the robotics of production devices and applications based on artificial intelligence develop. I therefore ask two questions: what does the Government intend to do at the national level to meet these challenges? At European level, what are France's actions to bring about a European defence in the field of cybersecurity, on the understanding that the threat does not respond to a logic of borders? Are there any cooperation?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-26-O1217.u53	Good question! Better than the previous one!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-26-O1217.u54	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-26-O1217.u55	You point to an absolutely central subject, on which the President of the Republic spoke a few weeks ago: cyber attacks and cybersecurity. In the same way that, during a pandemic, the first response is based on the application of barrier gestures and individual behaviour, we must make all French people aware of the threat to them and their company and of the need to respect the barriers in their personal or professional lives. The best way to avoid a cyber attack is not to click on an attachment sent by an unknown person, download updates to your mobile phone or computer, change passwords regularly and choose them in a relatively elaborate way. Many cyberattacks begin with the sending of a voracious attachment. It has indeed become a national problem, and I am thinking in particular of the attack on hospitals, the latest being that of Oloron-Sainte-Marie, who is in difficulty recovering. To do this, we need to improve awareness – that's why we worked on a communication campaign, especially with the Legends Bureau team. We also need to strengthen the staff of ANSSI – the National Agency for Information Systems Security – which will benefit from an additional budget of €136 million under the Recovery Plan: it is these people who intervene in the way of firefighters and work with very small companies, SMEs and large companies to anticipate attacks. Finally, we must provide a technological response, because it is a technological war. That is why the President of the Republic announced a €1.3 billion mobilisation a few weeks ago. [[Pierre-Yves Bournazel, Mireille Clapot and Maud Gatel applaud]] We are also waging this fight at European level; We are starting to coordinate and have opened a European cybersecurity centre in Romania. We are only at the beginning of the common response and we must strengthen it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-26-O1217.u56	Mrs Maud Gatel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-26-O1217.u57	I want to focus on artificial intelligence, whose exponential capabilities and progress – if we can talk about progress on certain aspects – open up every possible field. With the European Commission's White Paper and the very interesting work led by the European Parliament, a European strategy is emerging in this area. How do you intend to link it with the French strategy, especially given the ethical issues that arise?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-26-O1217.u58	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-26-O1217.u59	The French and European artificial intelligence strategies are based on two pillars. The first concerns the research and technological progress that we need to achieve. In some areas, such as artificial intelligence applied to personal data or consumer data, we are in fact lagging far behind China or the United States, even if we remain in the race for embedded artificial intelligence or applied to certain sectors such as energy or health. We must therefore continue to invest in order, as appropriate, to reduce our backlog or maintain our competitiveness. Continuing to be part of the game is also the only way to talk with international technological leaders who, it must be said, set standards. It is therefore also essential in terms of ethics and values. [[Ms. Mireille Clapot and Mr. Thomas Gassilloud applaud]] At the same time, France – with Canada in particular, and with the support of the European Union – has launched the global partnership for artificial intelligence – PMIA. Indeed, we need to know more about the ethical and societal consequences of artificial intelligence. Just as the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change – IPCC – has forged a consensus on global warming, which is a prerequisite for political action, we need to organize a dialogue between researchers from all over the world – Canadian and French, African, American, Asian... – to take stock of societal, sociological and technical research on the consequences of artificial intelligence, the basis on which political decisions will be made. The PMIA was launched about six months ago, at the instigation, among others, of the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister of Canada, Justin Trudeau. It works extremely well, and will hold its second meeting this year. We have great hope that this chamber will advance the societal debate on artificial intelligence, which questions our values.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-26-O1217.u60	The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-26-O1217.u61	That's too bad!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-26-O1217.u62	The next item is the debate on the report "Investing in a better grasp, confiscating in order to sanction better" submitted to the Government by Mr. Laurent Saint-Martin and Jean-Luc Warsmann in November 2019. The Conference of Presidents decided to hold this debate in two parts. As a first step, we will hear speakers from the groups and then from the Government. We will then conduct a question-and-answer session. Mr Jean-Luc Warsmann has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-26-O1217.u63	The law of 9 July 2010 to facilitate seizure and confiscation in criminal matters has undoubtedly changed the situation, and the decree of 1 February 2011 establishing the Agency for the Management and Recovery of Seized and Confiscated Assets – AGRASC – was a second revolution. Since then, the amount of seizures and confiscations has increased steadily. Is it necessary, however, to be self-satisfied? Ten years later, the Prime Minister entrusted Laurent Saint-Martin and myself with the task of drawing up an inventory of the issue. Clearly, a change of culture is at work. Our 144 hearings, including in Belgium and Switzerland, have shown that France, along with other developed countries, has made significant progress in terms of seizures and confiscations. I will focus on two points. First of all, the central role of AGRASC must be reaffirmed: it must become, even more so than today, a resource centre for magistrates and professionals. During our travels, some magistrates have informed us of their apprehensions about seizures: not only are these cases technical, but also, in litigation, lawyers are increasingly making financial disputes, aware of the serious consequences of their clients. It is also essential that all the services concerned use the same computer tool – and, I dare say, the same statistical tool. Some are still doing their statistics by hand, on a sheet of paper! Since practices are very heterogeneous between services, it is doubtful whether the statistical consolidation carried out at the national level is of high quality. We recommend that 128 full-time equivalents – FTEs – be recruited to strengthen the presence of AGRASC in the courts. It must be acknowledged that the law of 9 July 2010 did not achieve all its objectives. Why, for example, do many courts refrain from seizing cars? Simply because it requires the payment of custody fees. Of course, the law provides that a magistrate may order the immediate sale of a vehicle. The result of the transfer is then recorded with the Caisse des dépôts et consignations. If the proceedings are concluded by confiscation, the money is confiscated; otherwise, it shall be returned. Not all courts apply this procedure, and some accumulate extremely large amounts of custody rights. I believe – and I don't think I'm too mistaken – that one prosecutor in three instructs his investigators not to seize cars: it takes time and money, and there are other priorities. The purpose of the law is therefore not achieved. Let me have a shocking image: transplants should become the "sorting station" of the many objects that enter courts. Some are necessary for the investigation – the evidence of a murder, for example – but others are intended to be seized and confiscated: they must come out immediately. We don't have to pay premises to store them! They must be returned for sale if they are likely to lose value during the proceedings, and the money must be recorded, as provided by law. Our first fundamental recommendation is therefore to strengthen the role of AGRASC and its geographic mesh. A second key point is the prior identification of the heritage. Cultural change is certainly underway, but – I say, at the risk of being provocative – members of a criminal network should not be held in custody until they have investigated their heritage. On the day when police custody is triggered, the accounts must be blocked and seizures must be carried out – yet the assets must be recorded upstream! Experience has shown that the use of specialized assistants is very successful, as it brings the skills of other departments. Police officers and gendarmes have a lot of qualities, but sometimes they need access to other skills networks to give the full extent they need to do their job. At the same time, we have found major gaps in international affairs. As the thugs realized that it was hardly effective to invest their money in France, they invest abroad. Investigators report that during searches, they find vacation photos always taken in the same house, abroad. Who owns it? In order to investigate this type of issue, international agreements must be concluded and a network must be established with the services of the countries concerned. While the Ministry of Justice was a pilot in the field of seizures and confiscations, an inter-ministerial approach was indispensable. The Ministry of Europe and Foreign Affairs has a role to play: the issue of seizures and confiscations must be addressed whenever France negotiates a cooperation agreement with a foreign country – be it property held in the states concerned or property held by their nationals in France. On the other hand, more technical support from the Ministry of the Interior is needed – much has already been done, but the practice needs to be disseminated even more widely. Finally, the courts need to be assisted by staff from the Ministry of Finance – even if I understood it, its staff are down. Experience has shown that when Bercy benefits the courts from his way of working and searching for financial information, it greatly advances the community.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-26-O1217.u64	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-26-O1217.u65	I thank our colleagues Jean-Luc Warsmann and Laurent Saint-Martin for their report, which is in line with the report that Jacques Maire and I have devoted to the evaluation of the fight against financial crime. Already, we were interested in AGRASC on this occasion. We are currently conducting hearings with a view to preparing a report on the implementation of the above-mentioned report; We will deliver our conclusions at the end of May or the beginning of June. The findings you make, Mr. Warsmann, are identical to those we have made in the fight against economic and financial crime. Each time, the same problem is addressed: a lack of inter-ministeriality, cooperation and coordination between services. Another observation is common to us: the lack of resources. Imagine our astonishment: when we ask the AGRASC for a state of seizures and confiscations in France, she explains that it can only answer for its perimeter, not for the country. When speaking to the Chancery, she explained that she could only answer court by court, not for the country. When speaking to the Ministry of the Interior, it is the same thing: each department has its own statistics, and it is impossible to answer for the country. So it is three ministers who should be on the bench this morning, if we wanted a quality debate! Recent developments in the fight against economic and financial crime are in this direction. They accelerated after the assessment that the Financial Action Task Force – FATF – made of the resources France devotes to this struggle; Covid-19 has put all this on hold, but this international peer review should continue. As I recall, there are about 40 people in AGRASC – that is, how essential the interdepartmental dimension and the question of means are. Its staff would deserve to be four, five, or even ten times more numerous, so that it becomes a true support service for investigators and for justice. You observe, Mr. Warsmann, that specialized assistants to magistrates can do a good job of identifying – but, objectively, this is not supposed to be their job! It would be more effective for AGRASC to have investigators with such expertise, whom the courts would seek. Moreover, there is a real problem of recruitment in the Ministry of the Interior, particularly among the investigators, those who will carry out the identification work – in reality, the whole economic and financial chain is in great difficulty. It is not uncommon for the Central Office for Combating Corruption and Financial and Fiscal Offences – OCLCIFF – to keep posts open for deployment. We must then recruit and train novice police officers in this area, who ask for their transfer three or four years later – while it is the time needed to gain experience and be as effective as possible. We'll have to think about dedicated recruitment. In the past, the system of judicial tax officers has worked well within the judicial police: they were financial inspectors who were given a judicial qualification. From now on, they are deployed to Bercy, in the new financial investigation department. Of which, but we only have forty! For a country of 66 million people like France, forty judicial tax officers, one can dream better! If there were more, they could conduct heritage investigations for AGRASC, upstream of seizures, across the country. I'm back from a weekend in Palermo, where I met actors in the fight against the mafia. Italy has specific laws concerning mafia and confiscations, which include the "socialization" of property confiscated from mafia organisations – this is also mentioned in your report, Mr Warsmann, and I would like to refer to it. This is an interesting perspective: seized and confiscated buildings could be given in management to associations of public interest and public utility. In Paris, a building was seized jointly with the Italian courts, and Italy expressly requested France to give its share to a public utility association. A similar provision is included in the proposed law to improve the effectiveness of community justice and criminal response, but only for very small confiscations, in the context of alternatives to prosecution. It should be deployed at the top of the spectrum, so that citizens can be given back what the mafia or criminals have taken wrongly.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-26-O1217.u66	Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-26-O1217.u67	The interesting report by our colleagues Laurent Saint-Martin and Jean-Luc Warsmann gives a qualitative and quantitative assessment of the mechanisms for seizure and confiscation by the courts. The number of seizures and confiscations, used as tools for the suppression of crime, has increased in recent years. Nearly 600,000 confiscation measures were handed down by the correctional courts in 2017, and 9 per cent of the convictions handed down by these courts were subject to confiscation. [[Smile]] However, the report points out that the various bodies involved in identifying criminal assets are too often working in silos. In order to strengthen the coherence of the work, he proposes to strengthen the AGRASC and deconcentrate it by creating 16 regional agencies in each Court of Appeal. It also proposes the establishment of a resource centre for this agency, which would centralize information on seized or confiscated property for the entire criminal chain. This would also facilitate the production of reliable statistics. Perhaps it would have been interesting to cross-examine this subject with the previous debate. The Mission also found that the current organization of jurisdictions did not effectively manage seizures. Currently, property seized for confiscation has the same status as probationary seals. This results in significant custody costs. The rapporteurs therefore recommend that judges decide on the fate of the seized property within three months. As Jean-Luc Warsmann pointed out, the report also regrets the small number of heritage investigations that establish an offender's heritage. Unfortunately, these investigations are perceived as additional burdens by investigators already under stress, especially since some too cumbersome procedures are sometimes discouraging. The mission also advocates the establishment of a post-sentence investigation procedure allowing police officers and gendarmes to continue the investigation into the property of the convicted person, once the penalty of confiscation has been imposed. Ultimately, the various findings highlight the need for significant investments, including human investments, to facilitate confiscation and seizures. That is what is advocated both to the right and to the left of the House. All these issues are fundamental, and we can welcome this reflection. The report also emphasises a subject which is very much a matter for Communist MEPs, namely the confiscation of ill-conceived property, i.e. property diverted by leaders of foreign countries or their relatives. Until now, in the absence of a restitution mechanism, French law did not permit the return of funds derived from the confiscation of ill-acquired property, paid directly to the revenue of the general budget of the French State. The rapporteurs presented a model similar to that of Switzerland where treatment is done on a case-by-case basis, with the creation of a unit systematically involving AGRASC and the Agence française de développement – AFD. This will help to develop an effective mechanism for the reallocation of poorly acquired assets through AFD's financing of development projects for the benefit of people who are victims of corruption. We fully support this proposal and welcome the adoption of a mechanism to restore to people the assets confiscated by justice through development assistance within the framework of the programming law on solidarity development and the fight against global inequalities. These provisions, adopted unanimously by this House, represent a first significant step forward. The creation of a specific budgetary programme to which revenue from the sale of confiscated property will be paid in the form of a budget appropriation should ensure traceability and transparency of funds during the stages of the restitution process. However, we believe that the mechanism can be further improved to ensure that confiscated funds, once returned, do not fall back into corruption. As the NGO Transparency International points out, there is a need for these remittances to be distinguished from official development assistance and not reported as such in our accounting for official development assistance. Transparency and the participation of civil society in determining the modalities of restitution are essential both in France and in the countries of origin, in order to ensure the effectiveness of this process. Finally, I would like to thank the independent IDU Group for allowing this issue to be discussed this morning.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-26-O1217.u68	Mr Laurent Saint-Martin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-26-O1217.u69	I was fortunate to be interested in the issue of seizures and confiscations, together with our esteemed colleague Jean-Luc Warsmann, in the report we submitted to the Government in November 2019. The purpose of this report was to take stock of the policy of seizure and confiscation of property in criminal matters, particularly as a result of the creation of AGRASC. I welcome the initiative of the independent UDI Group, which today offers us the opportunity to take stock of the proposals we have made. The timing is particularly good since we celebrated the ten years of the AGRASC on February 4. First of all, I would like to recall the philosophy behind the creation of AGRASC. It was then a matter of modernizing our judicial culture through a paradigm shift: seizures had to become a tool, not only a probationary tool, that is to say, a tool contributing to the manifestation of truth, but also a heritage tool in order to strengthen the deterrent nature of sentences. It turns out that prison sentences are often accepted by those who are subjected to them as inevitable stages of the criminal journey. That is what we were able to verify in our various investigations. For far too many criminals I dare to call "career," prison is almost part of the risk of the job and it is not as dissuasive as we might hope. Moreover, as we know, prison stays may, in some cases, have a counterproductive effect in that they sometimes constitute alas! A crime school. On the other hand, and this is what we have been able to verify on the ground, the confiscation penalties to which criminals are less prepared, which destroy the motivation that lies in the principle of criminal action and which also affect their loved ones, can have much more effect. Those sentenced to heavy sentences often resort to the sole confiscation order. I want to highlight the cultural change that has been achieved that modernizes the meaning of sentence and allows, if you pass the phrase, "to type in the wallet" so that the crime does not pay. I wish once again to sincerely commend Jean-Luc Warsmann for his work on this subject for so many years. This is a significant change not only for economic and financial crime, the one that is best understood, for large-scale organized crime, but also for medium-level crime. The statistics show that all types of offences are subject to confiscation. In the context of the rise of violence and the proliferation of trafficking, it should be recalled that sentences of a heritage nature can be an effective and truly dissuasive response. I would also like to welcome the crucial progress made in the draft programming bill on solidarity development and the fight against global inequalities on the issue of ill-acquired property that we discussed in our report. The joint work between the majority, the Government and the opposition has led to a text guaranteeing the return to the people of the proceeds of the transfer of confiscated property to foreign public officials in cases of international corruption. That is true, questions remain about the operational framework for refunds. Madam Secretary of State, could you provide us with details of how the amounts seized will be returned to the population, the idea being of course to avoid returning the money to those who have been responsible for the crimes of ill-acquired property themselves, or to a political opposition that is sometimes not much better in this area? During our work with Jean-Luc Warsmann, we found that the policy of seizures and confiscations had broken out between too many institutions and too many ministries, with AGRASC providing only a part of it. The various structures working in this area, the AGRASC, the criminal assets identification platform – PIAC – which is primarily a police responsibility, and the national criminal assets unit – CeNAC – which is part of the gendarmerie tend to operate still too much in silos and without shared doctrine, at the expense of overall efficiency. We therefore advocated the creation of an inter-ministerial strategy, led by the Ministry of Justice but closely involving the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Public Accounts. We also suggested that communication between administrations, particularly with the Directorate-General for Public Finance – DGFIP – be improved in order to verify the tax situation of the respondents when the seized property is returned and to repay public debts held on convicted persons where they exist. Madam Secretary of State, have we been able to move forward on the issue of coordination and communication between administrations? Our report called for strengthening the human resources of AGRASC and providing it with relays in the regions. If a real effort has been made, we are only at the beginning. Wouldn't it be possible to supplement the AGRASC's resources with funding made available by you, in favour of community justice?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-26-O1217.u70	Mr David Corceiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-26-O1217.u71	Legislation on the seizure and confiscation of criminal assets has long remained static in French law. We do not have the culture of seizure as a deterrent sanction, but only for the purpose of preserving evidence. Nor do we have the culture of confiscation as a primary sanction; Rather, it constitutes an additional penalty incidental to the function. Gradually, we have evolved to make it an integral part of our fight against criminal assets and financial crime. As you have said, Mr Co-rapporteurs, when submitting your report, which I wish to welcome for its quality and pragmatic approach, this is a fundamental issue. Our public policies have seized it. In the course of the previous reforms, the AGRASC, the central body of the system, has seen its action supplemented, but as our colleagues Jean-Luc Warsmann and Laurent Saint-Martin have observed, this has created overlaps with other structures such as PIAC, attached to the central office for the suppression of the great financial crime of the Ministry of the Interior, and CeNAC, attached to the criminal assets unit of the Directorate-General of the National Gendarmerie. Since its creation ten years ago, AGRASC has been the subject of a rise in power. In 2019, some 21,000 cases were dealt with for more than 250 million euros confiscated from criminals and criminals. As of December 31, the Agency had a positive balance of €1.2 billion, and $200 million. That's 38% more in three years. Also in 2020, thanks to the resale of confiscated property and funds in cases of procuring or trafficking in human beings, the Agency contributed €2 million to the Fund for the Prevention of Prostitution, four times more than the previous year. Drug trafficking has also contributed EUR 18 million to the budget for the inter-ministerial mission to combat drugs and addictive conduct. Offenders are often more sensitive to the confiscation of their poorly acquired property than to a short prison term. The dissuasive and pedagogical scope of the device is a success. The Dem Group therefore supports the idea of further developing the culture of seizure by giving it more financial resources, as recommended by the co-rapporteurs. I am thinking in particular of the objective of creating sixteen regional branches, which we hope will be able to see. I am also thinking of the need to clarify the functions of the various actors involved in identification and seizure in order to carry out a more offensive and coherent policy at the national level, to systematically identify criminal assets, since the property investigation should become a reflex, to improve the effectiveness of seizure and to maximize confiscations, to improve confiscation decisions and the conditions for redistribution, and finally to create an innovative mechanism for the return of poorly acquired property. Ladies and gentlemen, our group has some questions. The first concerns the social acquisition of poorly acquired property. This is one of the major issues in the bill to improve the cash flow of associations, tabled by Sarah El Haïry, adopted in the Assembly and soon discussed in the Senate. This will is also that of the Director of AGRASC. The law could allow an association of battered women, victims of pimping, or a detoxification centre to recover the walls of a building formerly invested by drug traffickers or pimps. This would be a real "reconquest of the republican," to use the right words of Nicolas Bessone. The question of the return of AGRASC competition funds, which is essential for the proper functioning of this virtuous system, also raises questions. As proof of this, the seizure of criminal assets by the gendarmerie, whose value has averaged just over 200 million euros per year over the last two years. However, the gendarmerie was only financed by the competition funds to the tune of EUR 1 million in 2020, even less than the previous year when funding amounted to 1.5 million. The Dem Group wants us to adopt a very clear line of action: to give more financial resources to law enforcement officers who carry out a large number of seizures on the ground on a daily basis. This is to affirm our support and confidence and to help make the seizure of criminal assets a central lever of the crime control system.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-26-O1217.u72	Mr Thomas Gassilloud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-26-O1217.u73	First of all, I would like to thank our colleagues in the IDU Group and independents for putting this debate on the agenda. Remitted to the Government in November 2019 by Jean-Luc Warsmann and Laurent Saint-Martin, whose work I welcome, this report demonstrates the trans-party approach that has existed for more than ten years on this topic of seizures of criminal assets. It also bears witness – and this is very appreciative – to the long-term commitment of our colleague Jean-Luc Warsmann on these issues. I see it as a milestone on the policy of seizure and confiscation, some 10 years after the entry into force of the Act of 9 July 2010 to facilitate seizure and confiscation in criminal matters. This law is the first strong marker of the paradigm shift in court seizures. While seizures and confiscations have so far not been rooted in French culture, they have become a tool for the full repression of our judicial arsenal. Well handled, this tool combines several advantages. First, it responds to the imperative of justice that an offender cannot take advantage of the proceeds of his or her illicit activities. It then responds to a budgetary imperative, as it brings new revenue to the community. Finally, it responds to an imperative of effectiveness of the policy of repression since by striking offenders in the portfolio effectively, it strengthens the repressive arsenal available to the judge. To ensure the implementation of this policy of seizure and confiscation, the Act of 9 July 2010 created AGRASC. Ten years after its establishment, this agency is recognized for its usefulness and expertise. Its report for 2019 shows that the amount of confiscations exceeded 253 million euros that year, an increase of more than 600% compared to the previous year. Eighty-seven buildings and 3060 personal property were sold. The report states that the amounts confiscated made it possible to compensate in 2019 426 civil parties, amounting to 101 million euros. These are significant, encouraging and revealing results of the French judicial system's appropriation of these new seizure and confiscation tools. The creation of regional agencies could further improve this efficiency by strengthening territorial networking and generalising good practices; As a result, fraud would be better identified, seized more effectively, expedited procedures and reduced costs for the management of seized and confiscated assets. We can only support such a proposal, which, however, requires significant financial and human investment. Among the other areas of progress, your report notes that seizures remain concentrated on economic and financial issues, which account for between 60 and 70 per cent, and are too rare in medium-intensity crime. I believe that this is a major challenge to enable the device to reach its full reach. I also agree with the proposal to allow magistrates to rule on the fate of seized property within three months in order to manage seizures effectively and avoid significant custody costs. Finally, I welcome the willingness to develop more reliable statistics by establishing a single chain of census and data centralization. The Agir Ensemble Group therefore welcomes the way in which the normative framework has evolved over the past ten years in this area, in line with a logic of efficiency and pragmatism. These results are already extremely encouraging and the proposals you make in this report are in the direction of improving the system. I will therefore conclude by associating myself with the wish that you make at the end of your report: "the penalty of confiscation must now take its full place in the repressive arsenal by becoming a principal penalty and no longer merely a supplementary penalty".
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-26-O1217.u74	The Secretary of State for the Social Economy, who is responsible for the social economy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-26-O1217.u75	On November 26, 2019, MPs Jean-Luc Warsmann and Laurent Saint-Martin, whom I salute, presented the Ministers of Justice, Interior and Public Accounts with a report entitled "Investing in a better grasp, confiscate and sanction". As you have all pointed out, this report focuses on a strong focus of the Government's criminal policy: how can punishment be made meaningful and effective through seizures and confiscations? In other words, and according to Laurent Saint-Martin's formula, how better to hit the wallet? The mission notes that the legislative framework has been completed but that our mechanism for identifying the seizure and confiscation of criminal assets can clearly become more effective. It also makes thirty-four proposals for action. It is therefore appropriate today, a little more than a year after the publication of the report, to give the national representative an initial assessment of what has already been done and what is currently being done. This first assessment is positive since one third of the thirty-four proposals have already been implemented – I will come back – and others will be implemented very soon. The organization of government action was a real subject. The mission rightly called on the relevant ministries, the interior, justice and public accounts, to strengthen the inter-ministerial strategy for the apprehension of criminal assets: this is the first proposal in the report. This strategy is very concretely being consolidated, under the aegis of the AGRASC, which has celebrated, as you said, its ten years. Government action has improved in several ways. First, the Ministry of Justice has engaged with the AGRASC in the field of statistics, in which the Ministry of the Interior has been involved. Secondly, the network of magistrates responsible for seizure and confiscation within each court of first instance and appeal has been working to disseminate more actively legislative and judicial developments in the area of criminal asset apprehension and management of seals, as well as good practices. The Directorate of Criminal Affairs and Pardons also recalls in its thematic circulars the priority to be given to the identification and seizure of criminal assets with a view to their confiscation. Finally, in collaboration with AGRASC, DACG has recast the Guide to Seizures and Confiscation developed in 2015; the new version was published on its intranet site on 5 January, which is a useful tool, educational, legal, reference technique for all practitioners. With regard to AGRASC's action, the mission called for a resizing that would be based on the creation of regional offices, as close as possible to the courts – this is proposal No. 5 of the report. An experiment in this direction has been carried out since the beginning of the month: two regional experimental offices opened their doors in Lyon and Marseille on 1 March at the DGFIP premises. They are composed of four agents in Lyon and six in Marseilles, in addition to a coordinating magistrate. Their tasks are threefold: to identify and trace seized and confiscated property; better manage certain seized or confiscated movable property by developing pre-trial sales and service assignments; act in support and advice of magistrates and investigators, including through training activities. In the long term, the device could be extended if the experiment proved to be successful. Proposal 4 was to ensure "a better coherence between missions of the same nature within PIAC and AGRASC". Regular meetings have already taken place between these two bodies to establish a common doctrine of intervention and a better distribution of training tasks. Finally, with a view to extending the scope of seizures and confiscations, the report makes several recommendations for normative developments. The first concerns the introduction of a post-sentence investigation procedure. Today, it is possible to identify the assets acquired fraudulently in order to order the confiscation at the hearing. The aim of this proposal is to allow the identification of the person's assets after the conviction and thus to execute the penalty of confiscation when no seizure has been made in advance. The Government fully endorses the idea of such a mechanism. A second development concerns the return of so-called ill-acquired property. The aim here is to create a mechanism for the return of ill-acquired property to the plundered population, directly or indirectly. I wanted to clarify this point, mentioned by Laurent Saint-Martin. This mechanism is already in the process of being implemented, after an amendment to the draft programming law on solidarity development and the fight against global inequalities was adopted at first reading by the National Assembly on 19 February 2021. This scheme provides for the allocation of the proceeds of poorly acquired property to the populations of the countries concerned for financing cooperation and development activities. This progress brings us into line with our international commitments and has a strong symbolic and moral dimension. A final recommendation is to expand the scope for deciding on the fate of the movable property before any seizure on the merits. The Government also shares this analysis: the use of pre-trial sales is identified as a real lever of greater efficiency. This is the subject of the imminent release of a Department of Justice dispatch recalling the operational contribution of the AGRASC to the support of the courts. You have also, ladies and gentlemen, addressed the budget issue. In this connection, I would like to inform you that the 2021 Finance Act has made a major change: Parliament will now follow the employment ceiling, revenue and expenditure. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Mr David Corceiro and Mr Jean-Luc Warsmann also applaud]] As you can see, from an organizational point of view, from an experimental point of view, to a budgetary point of view, the Government has taken full advantage of MM's ambitious recommendations. Warsmann and Saint-Martin. We have worked actively to advance the reforms, to identify ways and means to make it even more effective, and finally to give the AGRASC the legal and human means to improve the scope and, above all, the effectiveness of its action.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-26-O1217.u76	We are addressing the second part of this debate, which deals with group issues. I would remind you that the length of questions and answers is limited to two minutes and there is no right of reply. Mrs Agnes Chill has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-26-O1217.u77	Madam Secretary of State, the thirty-four proposals in the report by our colleagues Warsmann and Saint-Martin are an important step forward for us. We welcome the fact that many of these proposals have been taken up, particularly in the context of the first reading of the draft programming law on solidarity development and the fight against global inequalities for the long-awaited inclusion and definition in the law of the concept of ill-acquired property. On the other hand, we continue to question other interesting proposals that have not yet been implemented. I'd like to report two of them to you. The first relates to Parliament's information on the use of these transfer proceeds. The practical arrangements for their return, including budgetary arrangements, remain unclear. We are told that they will be defined at a later stage. Are you in a position, Madam Secretary of State, to tell us today, or at least to tell us what date these clarifications will take place? The second point I wish to raise relates to proposal No 31 of the report. We would like to know how the Government wishes to implement the extension of the right of communication for the purpose of verifying the tax situation of the respondent at the time the seized property is returned.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-26-O1217.u78	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-26-O1217.u79	The Government had indeed committed itself to establishing a mechanism for the restitution of proceeds from the transfer of misacquired property to the populations of the States concerned, a proposal in the consensus report. The return takes place once the revenue is recovered, through a budgetary mechanism involving the appropriation of appropriations under the finance law. The funding channels will be translated into concrete terms in the next finance bill. As far as proposal No 31 is concerned, I do not have any more specific elements to bring to your attention. I am committed to forwarding your question to the Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-26-O1217.u80	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-26-O1217.u81	My question is simple: what have you been waiting for in the last two years to increase the numbers of all the services that contribute to the fight against economic and financial crime and that bring money back to the state funds – I'm talking about millions, and even billions? The National Financial Prosecutor's Office has hosted an additional magistrate in two years to increase their number to eighteen. Of the twenty judges of the Paris Public Prosecutor's Office, only seven joined the new national anti-organized crime court – JUNALCO – with the remaining thirteen remaining at the Paris Public Prosecutor's Office. The AGRASC received two additional full-time equivalents. The French Anti-Corruption Agency has lost staff since last year. It is enough to go around all the services: to the central office for the fight against corruption and financial and fiscal offences, stagnation of the workforce and even slight decrease currently waiting for changes; the Central Office for the Suppression of Major Financial Delinquency. What do you need? We're not even talking about inter-ministeriality anymore, I'm only talking to Bercy, who's the only one represented this morning and who's holding the purse cords. What happened to the political will? Is there only one? I remember, during the mobilization of the yellow vests, the President of the Republic Emmanuel Macron considered scandalous that people did not pay their taxes and escaped the collective effort by fraudulent maneuvers. Besides, nothing! Take the example of VAT: a 2019 report points to breaches of the tax reporting obligations of non-EU companies using market places. While VAT fraud in our country amounts to several hundred million euros, only 23 investigations have been opened by the National Financial Prosecutor's Office, which does what it can because it lacks legal assistants. What do you need? With your mindset, you should understand it: it is profitable for the public power to spend money in this area.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-26-O1217.u82	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-26-O1217.u83	You mention it for the second time, so I reply: I am here this morning, with the commitment that characterizes me, to answer for the inter-ministerial action of the Government. The debate concerns the Chancellery, the Ministry of Public Accounts and the Ministry of the Interior. I know you're, as happy as I am, to see me this morning where I represent both Bercy and the other departments. I can assure you that the Government is mobilized and has moved the lines since 2017. You will certainly not agree, but I would remind you of some elements. In 2019 and 2020, seized assets represent more than 500 million euros – exactly 560 – compared to just under 295 million in 2012, almost doubling. We have continued to increase the staff but above all the resources of the Ministry of the Interior. Out of the amount of seizures in 2019, 18 million euros came back to train and equip police officers and gendarmes as well as to improve the retention of investigators on highly specialized channels.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-26-O1217.u84	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-26-O1217.u85	The department is also considering additional bonuses. You will no doubt disagree...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-26-O1217.u86	It's not a matter of disagreement! We're talking about the facts in a report of the National Assembly! I can have it transmitted to you by Jacques Maire if it's more effective!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-26-O1217.u87	...but I assure you that the Government is mobilized.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-26-O1217.u88	They're no longer controls, they're jokes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-26-O1217.u89	Mrs Naïma Moutchou has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-26-O1217.u90	You know, Madam Secretary of State, my commitment to matters relating to justice and also to the development of solidarity. I had the opportunity, a few months ago, to submit to the Prime Minister a report on French philanthropy. I am convinced that the two issues are linked: justice has a role to play in solidarity. This is suggested by the report by our colleagues Laurent Saint-Martin and Jean-Luc Warsmann, whose high quality I would like to pay tribute to, in proposal No 23, which provides for a system of social reallocation of goods. In summary, AGRASC could make seized real property available to associations that pursue a purpose of general interest or are recognized as being of public utility, where appropriate free of charge. This is a consensual proposal, which is also a way to respond to the crisis we are going through. It is consensual because it is also included in our colleague Sarah El Haïry's bill to improve the cash flow of the associations that have so far been blocked in the parliamentary shuttle. My question is simple: we hope for good news on the legislative translation of the proposal. Can you confirm that the provision will soon be considered by the Senate? If not, could it be included in another text? Can you also assure us of your support for such a device?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-26-O1217.u91	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-26-O1217.u92	You first ask me about the socialization of goods as a general rule. Without calling into question, on the contrary, the desirability of such a device, we must first define its contours. This is the purpose of the expertise currently being carried out by various departments, in particular in order to assess the direct consequences for the investigative services who are interested in the results of seizure and confiscation activities. Indeed, such an allocation would reduce them by part of their revenues. It also appears that the social allocation of property can take other channels. Thus, under the impetus of Laurent Saint-Martin, the finance law for 2021 has authorized the allocation of the movable goods seized in the framework of an investigation to the judicial services and, consequently, to the Ministry of Justice. This is a social step forward. The judicial services, since they had to play a role in the seizures, were seeking a return on investment. Finally, the proposal would have the effect of diversifying the financial flows to AGRASC a little more. The report rightly encourages simplification of the same flows – I am in favour of it. On an experimental basis, following a political agreement, a property confiscated by the Paris court, in execution of an Italian request for assistance, was made available to the Nest Amicale, an association of help and support for prostitutes. The French State has therefore waived, at least temporarily, the proceeds of the sale which should have been returned to it in order to make the property available to the aforementioned association. Finally, with respect to the bill to improve the cash flow of associations – I know your interest in this matter, Mrs.Moutchou – we have good news as it is placed on the Senate Orders of the Day as of May 12. The text is consistent with the experiment I mentioned at the moment. Even if the shuttle has been long, the outcome is positive.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-26-O1217.u93	Mrs Naïma Moutchou has the floor for a second question.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-26-O1217.u94	To put an end to the various and varied traffickings that gangrene some of our territories, Laurent Saint-Martin said very well, we must strike the offenders in the wallet. This requires conducting so-called heritage investigations. However, courts are often deprived of this kind of investigation. Today, these surveys are relatively poor or, in some cases, non-existent. They do not make it possible to establish a link between the offender's heritage and his or her criminal activity. Similarly, property that is directly related to an offence is not always subject to confiscation. I give you an example: a person convicted of pimping whose apartments were seized during an investigation was returned by the court when they were the place where the offences took place. That raises the question. I would like to highlight proposal No 18 of the report, which aims to make the confiscation of property in direct connection with an offence compulsory unless it is stated otherwise. The report also suggests extending the scope of value confiscation to confiscate the property of the convicted person whose origin he cannot justify – for having practiced the matter a little, I know that these are relatively frequent cases. Today, this supplementary penalty is reserved for offences that are punishable by at least five years' imprisonment, although it may be useful for certain offences punishable with less punishment. These paths require legislative change. The bill on trust in the judicial institution that the keeper of the seals must present in a few weeks may be the right vehicle to translate certain proposals, including the one I have just recalled. Of course, there must be what is called a catch in the text. Madam Secretary of State, can you tell us more?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-26-O1217.u95	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-26-O1217.u96	As far as property investigations are concerned, they are carried out almost systematically today by investigators, police officers and gendarmes, thanks to the specific equipment and training allocated to them, as I indicated to Mr Bernalicis earlier. These means are the result of the confiscations and sales carried out by the AGRASC; in 2020, they amount to about €18 million. This funding provides high-level training for investigators and high-level materials – software, licenses – in support of heritage investigations. The resources dedicated to heritage investigations are thus consolidated. As for compulsory confiscation, it still poses problems of proportionality of penalties. It is not possible in all cases. The bill you are referring to could be an opportunity to move forward or, at the very least, to have a thorough discussion with the seal keeper on this matter. With regard to proposal No. 5, which you referred to, on 1 March 2021 a magistrate coordinating the regional offices was recruited. In the Financial Act for 2021, the judicial services were authorized to be assigned movable property seized as part of a judicial investigation, as is currently the case for the police or gendarmerie. Such an extension makes it possible to focus more directly on AGRASC's missions and to ensure better communication between all actors in the judicial chain – it is also an important element.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-26-O1217.u97	Mr David Corceiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-26-O1217.u98	First of all, I would like to welcome the work of Messrs. the rapporteurs, Jean-Luc Warsmann and Laurent Saint-Martin, whose rigour has led to a comprehensive report which must allow the re-foundation of an entire part of our judicial system. The report highlights the need for the State to assert an effective and coherent policy on criminal assets. This implies that the heritage logic irrigates the entire criminal chain and requires investment in order to give investigative services and courts the means to implement the new policy of seizure and confiscation. Since the Warsmann law of 2010 to facilitate seizure and confiscation in criminal matters, we have witnessed a semantic change in the perception of judicial penalties. For example, confiscation of property that has contributed to the illicit enrichment of convicted persons is seen as an excellent punishment, sometimes even more educational than imprisonment because it punishes previous criminal activities and does not allow the perpetrators to benefit from the ill-acquired property for the future. Is it possible, Madam Secretary of State, to strengthen the legal status of the confiscation of property, especially since its application would be made possible by a large reorganization of the AGRASC? Can it provide a basis for the Ministry of Justice's major reflections on alternative sanctions? Do you think it is necessary to consider a reorganisation of the texts on the supplementary penalties for confiscation and seizure, now scattered and with references that are not always very clear?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-26-O1217.u99	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-26-O1217.u100	The return to the gendarmerie of the AGRASC competition funds is indeed an important subject. At the present time, the gendarmerie receives part of the assistance fund devoted to the fight against crime; AGRASC funds amount to €1.5 million and MILDECA funds – the inter-ministerial mission to combat drugs and addictive conduct – €4.5 million, or 6 million in total. In 2020, AGRASC financed seven projects submitted by the National Gendarmerie, totalling $20.5 million, through this fund. More broadly, your question was about AGRASC's financial flows, the complexity of which may give rise to some mistrust regarding the use of the proceeds of confiscation. Currently, AGRASC's intervention expenditures feed into departmental budgets, through competition funds, in return for actions undertaken by the investigative services. This relationship of interest, which I mentioned a few moments ago, must be preserved by the reform advocated in the report by Mr Delors. Warsmann and Saint-Martin in order to simplify these flows: this reform is necessary, but, once again, it must not compromise the interest of judicial police actors on the ground, an essential link in the system. As you said: the competition funds are only imperfectly traced – to use euphemism – in the budget documents transmitted to Parliament. We absolutely need to make progress in this area, and I have no doubt that the members of the Committee on Finance will be proposing solutions in the autumn in the context of the next budget. In any event, the traceability of these funds within the budget documents is a real subject of reflection. Finally, assets are also accumulating on the account of the Caisse des dépôts et consignations: recently, a temporary five-person team was established to clear the oldest files and trace revenues due to the general budget. This is a significant step forward, even if it will not suffice, the essential thing being to prevent the creation of such a stock.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-26-O1217.u101	Mr Pierre-Yves Bournazel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-26-O1217.u102	First of all, I would like to acknowledge Laurent Saint-Martin's work, commitment and comments on the fight against mafia networks and the organisation of financial crime. The AGRASC has a very unusual management circuit: it is entirely financed by the proceeds of the sale of confiscated property that it makes and by the interest of the sums it keeps in its account at the Caisse des dépôts. This funding is unfortunately opaque from a budgetary, random and not very virtuous point of view. In addition, the excellent report by Laurent Saint-Martin and Jean-Luc Warsmann points out that once its operating costs are collected, the AGRASC transfers part of this revenue, through competition funds, to entities interested in confiscations. This is the case with MILDECA, or with the services responsible for preventing prostitution or financing the fight against crime and crime. However, these mechanisms violate the budgetary principles of unity and universality; In addition, they are exempt from Parliament's review and approval. The latest finance law has certainly made significant progress, since AGRASC is now one of the operators of the 166 "Judicial Justice" programme; its jobs must respect a ceiling adopted by Parliament. However, its method of financing remains unchanged and, to the best of my knowledge, the competition funds remain. Madam Secretary of State, do you not think that we should go even further and normalize all this?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-26-O1217.u103	Very good question!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-26-O1217.u104	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-26-O1217.u105	Thank you for your question, Mr. Bournazel. I will, of course, answer it in the affirmative: to go ever further is in my nature! In the meantime, and in order to complete my reply to Mr Corceiro, you yourself have referred to the major development produced by the Finance Act for 2021: the AGRASC has finally been included as an operator in a yellow budget, so that Parliament will be able to monitor not only its employment ceiling but its revenue and expenditure, in the same way as for all other operators of the State. It's about time! This progress was expected and desired. As for the work of the team responsible for clearing the inventory of cases whose funds are placed in an account of the Caisse des dépôts, it aims to increase the productivity of the AGRASC and to maximize the proportion of its revenues transferred to the general budget of the State. At the moment, I repeat, this team is composed of five people who are dedicated exclusively to this task: we could consider with the Caisse des dépôts to bring it to power, always with the objective of improving the budgetary visibility of the AGRASC – an objective that we share with you, Mr Bournazel, as with Mr Corceiro. Again, this issue is important; In the coming months, we cannot dispense with reforming the Agency's flows, particularly its intervention expenditure, which now take the form of competition funds.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-26-O1217.u106	The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-26-O1217.u107	Next sitting, Monday, 29 March, at 4 p.m.: Draft law on combating climate change and strengthening resilience to its effects. The meeting is adjourned.
