ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u1	The next item is the question of the situation of trade and other sectors affected by the covid-19 crisis. I would remind you that the Conference of Presidents has set the maximum time limit for each question and answer at two minutes. We start with the Freedom and Territory Group's questions. Mrs Sylvia Pinel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u2	Deputy Minister, I would like to ask you three specific questions. As the health crisis lingers, the difficulties for traders, artisans and self-entrepreneurs facing administrative closures increase. These professionals, it is true, have a wide range of aids which enable them to maintain the existence of their company and to pay their fixed charges. However, some self-employed persons are not employees of their own enterprises and therefore cannot benefit from the partial unemployment scheme. Without income, they are condemned to draw on their resources, at the risk of their depletion. The Council for the Social Protection of Self-Employed Workers (CPSTI) has decided to grant exceptional assistance to these professionals, but this is a single aid, paid once only, amounting to EUR 500 for self-entrepreneurs and EUR 1000 for the other self-employed. It will probably be insufficient, hence my first question: will you renew this aid in case of prolongation of administrative closures? For other companies in the catering and hospitality sector, the difficulties arose before the crisis of the covid-19, during the various social movements. At that time, they incurred tax and social debts which prevented them from benefiting from aid schemes. Would it be possible for these companies to have the Government ask the tax administration to decide on a case-by-case basis rather than on a general basis? In addition, the USSRAF announced the resumption of the recovery of personal social contributions and contributions from self-employed persons outside the S1 and S1 bis sectors. However, many self-employed people do not benefit from a real resumption of their activity. Are you considering giving them new payment deadlines to support their cash flow?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u3	The next speaker is the Minister for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u4	First of all, at the beginning of the sitting, allow me to express my emotion following the death of Marielle de Sarnez and to extend my condolences to her colleagues and her family. Like many, I will keep the memory of a minister engaged in the service of France. Mrs Pinel, you asked me about three issues, starting with the possible renewal by the CPSTI of the aid it had granted. A first aid, decided in April and generalised to all traders and artisans, was the reimbursement of the 2019 contribution. The CPSTI then decided to grant another aid, the amount of which was not automatic but was on request, up to EUR 500 or 1000, as you indicated. If the CPSTI, whose jurisdiction it is, decides to renew this assistance, the Government will give a favourable opinion. As far as tax debts are concerned, I confirm to you, as we have indicated on several occasions, that there will be a favourable response on a case-by-case basis to any request for spreading or, in the event of a difficult situation, cancellation of the payment. As for the USSRAF contributions, it is important to remember that we have decided that carry-overs could reach 36 months; Many professionals have not yet integrated this possibility. Furthermore, we have given instructions to the USSRAF to clear the debts of companies in particular difficulties, in order to allow them to spend this extremely delicate moment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u5	Mr Bertrand Pancher has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u6	Our Libertés et Territoires group wanted to ask the Government about the strategy and policies regarding trade and crafts, a sector that is in a very serious situation, in addition to the curfew that is currently in place. This is particularly the case in my department where many establishments are still seeing their turnover collapse. The Government has put in place strong measures, which we supported and which you recalled a few moments ago, Minister Delegate, including the spread of social charges and loans guaranteed by the State – PGE. You have just recalled that in the event of real difficulties in paying these expenses, or even in repaying an EMP, the situation of companies would be examined on a case-by-case basis, so as to avoid, whenever possible, balance sheet deposits. Together with my colleague Sylvia Pinel, on behalf of our group's parliamentarians, we have asked the Government, including the Prime Minister, to set up departmental commissions acting before the commissions of the heads of financial services of the State, in order to ensure that these situations are really dealt with upstream. The Prime Minister told us that this was a very good idea. I would therefore like to ask you whether this strategy will be put in place and within what framework. The aim is to bring together all the players and to avoid, of course, a large number of balance sheet deposits. It is important that we know the method that will be adopted, so that we can help all traders in difficulty.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u7	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u8	We are fully aware, honourable Member, of the difficulties many professionals face today, whether they are artisans, traders or liberals. As you recalled, the Government has implemented measures that are regularly adapted to the situation. This is particularly difficult for those sectors which have had to close; others work better, such as building and public works, which we met with representatives last week. But you are right: it is essential to focus our efforts on those who are most in difficulty. We are in direct contact with the keeper of the seals and the departments of his ministry to put in place arrangements upstream of any proceedings in the commercial court and thus act as soon as possible with the social organizations, with the professional representatives, the consular chambers and, of course, the representatives of the territories. I confirm our willingness to carry out a task of listening and identifying difficulties as quickly as possible, in order to put in place the appropriate arrangements for each company. I note that there are fewer business failures than in previous years, but I remain very careful: we know that this is linked to state support. The Government therefore wishes to continue to listen to and support businesses as they recover, which we hope will be quick, in order to avoid the collapse of the economy in 2021 and the proliferation of failures. We are therefore determined to find the appropriate solutions upstream, as you pointed out, to support the most difficult companies.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u9	Mr Paul Molac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u10	The health crisis that we are going through has also turned into an economic crisis. The Government has taken welcome steps to support the activity, which is generally highly appreciated. However, it is a type of business that I would like to draw your attention to: multi-service businesses, essential in rural areas. It can be a bar with a bakery, or a grocery store with a restaurant. And if only the bar or restaurant side closes, but not the bakery or grocery store, and if the drop in turnover does not reach 50%, these businesses cannot be helped. However, they are often characterized by very low profitability and a very wide timescale, and they are sometimes the only link and the last service offered to the population in our communes or in our towns. That is to say how much we need it: it is obviously about the economic survival of these traders, but also about the social balance and the planning of the territory. After announcing that I would ask a question about it, I was questioned by several people, as the newspaper Ouest France echoed it, who were in a hurry to do so. I would therefore like to know whether, despite the fact that these businesses often have only one SIRET number and a single accountancy, their pluriactivity could not be taken into account to help them more, in some cases...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u11	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u12	[["Very good! » and applause on the benches of the LT group]] ... and to derogate from the 50 % reduction in turnover criterion, which is an obstacle. I stress the low profitability of these businesses, and the challenge of maintaining a social bond and life in our countryside. We were talking at the moment about balance sheet deposits: when its last trade closes, it is the full vitality of the commune that disappears.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u13	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u14	[["Very good! » and applause on the benches of the LT group]] I am particularly appreciative of your intervention, honourable Member. You are absolutely right: it is an absolute imperative, in many territories, to maintain the multi-service trade which is the only social link but also the only access, for many, to essential services. It is true that, among the diversity of the aid offered, the Government has not worked specifically on this type of activity – especially since these businesses often do not benefit from institutional representation. Nevertheless, we are working with the ruralists, who have put in place mechanisms to expand their services. Operation "1000 cafés" pursues the same objective; I met with their representatives last week, with the aim of amplifying this mechanism. Behind this initiative, which concerns coffees, there is also multi-service activity. But I take note of your alert, Mr Molac, and I undertake to study, together with Bruno Le Maire, the possibility of aid beyond the existing arrangements – knowing that if the decrease in their turnover exceeds 50%, these businesses benefit from the same aid as the others. And as I reminded Mrs Pinel, they can also benefit from an exemption from contributions from the USSRAF. But I am aware that their situation can nevertheless be difficult and that their closure would be dramatic and even more costly for the community. I therefore take note of your question and pledge to look very quickly at whether it is possible to consider specific measures.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u15	Mrs Jeanine Dubie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u16	On Thursday, January 7, the Prime Minister announced what the mountain actors have feared for several weeks: the ski lifts will not reopen until further notice. Of course, our mountain areas are resilient and, at the end of the year, professionals have shown ingenuity and determination to allow holidaymakers to discover the mountain differently, through new activities and in compliance with strict sanitary protocols. But with the closure of ski lifts, ski resorts have seen their attendance rate drop sharply and have already lost more than 20% of their turnover. Since the re-visit clause is scheduled for 20 January, only two weeks before the February holidays, mountain professionals are now afraid of a white season. [[Applause on the benches of the LT group]] Despite the variety of support schemes proposed to accompany the various economic actors and to compensate for the loss of turnover, the tourism residences and holiday villages sector does not benefit from any reduction in charges or support measures adapted to the size and number of establishments operating in mountain areas. However, these establishments are an essential link in the mountain ecosystem; they provide accommodation for many tourists, regardless of their purchasing power. Today they are facing a wave of cancellations and it will take them several weeks to reconstitute their booking flow. Given the great uncertainty about the possible date of reopening of lifts, it is feared that the February holidays will be compromised. It is therefore essential that specific measures be envisaged in order to avoid the permanent cessation of activity of many structures. Can you tell us, Minister Delegate, whether the Government is considering taking appropriate action in this area of activity?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u17	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u18	On three occasions, the Prime Minister had, for almost one morning, intense exchanges with all the players in the mountains. We have been forced, like most neighbouring countries, to close the lifts, but some stations have been able to keep an activity – albeit reduced. You highlight the particular difficulty that tourist residences encounter. We've met with his representatives in my office for several weeks. We have not yet finalized the scheme because the situation is complex, because some owners pass through organizations for rental. We understand the importance of accompanying these key players in the economic activity of the mountain. I hope that within two or three weeks we will have found with them a suitable device that will allow them to pass this difficult moment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u19	We come to the questions of the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left. Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u20	By 2021, close to 100,000 balance sheet deposits could occur, twice as much as in normal years. At the same time, hundreds of thousands of workers are facing lay-off plans. To deal with this situation, the solidarity fund, which was too unambitious in its beginnings, has grown in power over the months: now, restaurants, closed hotels and the companies that depend on it can be compensated by the solidarity fund up to 20% of their turnover. But small businesses have very limited cash flow and aid should be scaled up to further compensate for their losses. However, you seem to choose another strategy: to extend the solidarity fund to larger companies, especially larger ones. The ceiling of the aid to EUR 200000, sufficient for very small enterprises – TPE – and small and medium-sized enterprises – SMEs – excluded the largest enterprises, particularly in the hotel sector. Your measures will now allow groups with up to 5000 employees to access the solidarity fund. The opening of the solidarity fund to large companies cannot be done without conditions, in our view. As we know, many of the 763 social plans recorded since March have taken place in publicly supported companies. What conditions do you intend to set, Minister? Are you planning to make the granting of these aid conditional on the non-distribution of dividends, the prohibition of collective redundancies and the publication of a country-by-country reporting of business activity around the world to make tax evasion practices public?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u21	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u22	As you said, Madam Member, the Government has tried over the months to adapt the devices to the scale and duration of the crisis. Aid from the Solidarity Fund, from March onwards, was set at EUR 1500 for companies which lost 70% of their turnover; From November onwards, we decided that this aid would increase to 10000 euros in turnover compensation for closed companies and that they would also benefit from exemptions from social security contributions; From December onwards, in particular in the coffee, hotels and restaurants sector, but also in the event sector, we have introduced a dual scheme: aid of up to 10000 euros or compensation of 20 % of turnover, depending on the choice of companies. As a result of this decision, representatives of these professions, in particular the coffee, hotels and restaurants sector, explained to us that this scheme would cover 98% or 99% of businesses but not the costs of certain groups – this term could refer to natural persons with about 10 or 20 restaurants. Things are not yet finalized because they are still under discussion with the European Commission. We are considering a scheme that would allow up to a ceiling of EUR 3 million to compensate for the losses of these companies, which, I would remind you, have been closed for four to five months in 2020. You're asking me if we're considering making these payments conditional, especially on the non-payment of dividends. Very clearly, Madam Member, the answer is no: it has never been in the intentions of the Government. Let me just point out that it seems unlikely that restaurants and hoteliers will pay dividends, while many of them have lost 90% of their turnover. It does not seem useful for us to make similar arrangements. The penalty will fall on their own initiative for these entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u23	What about the lay-off plans?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u24	Mrs Karine Lebon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u25	According to figures published by Protourism at the end of November, the tourism sector has lost 60 billion euros of turnover since the first confinement, of which one quarter, or 15 billion euros, for the catering, coffee and beverage sector. And this record continues to grow. Travel companies lost between 70% and 80% of their turnover in 2020, equivalent to €20 billion. Social and solidarity tourism actors are also severely affected. Holiday villages, holiday settlements, collective inns, school and language organizers are expected to experience a drop of more than 50% in their annual turnover. To cope with the difficulties of this sector and to protect all these companies and associations from a risk of liquidation, the National Union of Tourism and Outdoor Associations proposes the creation of a national fund to support the social and solidarity tourism sector, the introduction of a reduction or tax credit on the costs of holiday camps for families, on the model of personal services, an increase of the "Seniors on holiday" programme of the National Agency for Holiday Cheques or the opening of the scheme of holiday vouchers to artisans and independents. All these measures are in the direction of a right to access to quality holidays for all, all the more useful since, at the end of the health crisis, our citizens will need to find themselves and to replenish themselves. Minister, are you ready to accept these proposals in the coming weeks and months?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u26	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u27	You have made the right observation, Madam Member: unfortunately, tourism is one of the sectors most affected by the health crisis, which is easily understood. Even if this is the case in all the countries of the world, the consequences are more serious for France, a highly touristic country. Tourism actors are extremely numerous and diverse in their constitution, and social tourism plays an important role. I have indeed seen some proposals coming up for the resumption. For the moment, together with Jean-Baptiste Lemoyne, we continue to accompany the tourism players in order to allow them to hold on, which is the least of the things. They hold, even if the situation is difficult, especially for travel agencies. However, it will be necessary, when the time comes, to accompany these and other actors towards the rebound. We know very well that even when health conditions are better, it will take several months before the activity is fully resumed. I confirm to you, Madam Member, that we are going to look with Jean-Baptiste Lemoyne, Bruno Le Maire and with the actors themselves what the most suitable means can be to enable them to bounce back and find normal activity as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u28	We turn to the questions of the Republic in March Group. Mrs Typhanie Degois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u29	Vaccines have been found to fight the pandemic; But vaccines, companies also need them to cope with the debt wall they face after a year of economic difficulties. They accumulated an additional EUR 178 billion in debt in 2020, bringing their debt to over 85% of GDP by the end of June. The decline in business activity has severely affected their cash flow, which was already badly affected before the health crisis. This year, one in four companies could be in a payment crisis. The granting of State-guaranteed loans, the deadlines for social security contributions or taxes were, of course, good things, but these schemes only referred problems back to later. Lack of cash and equity in companies is likely to result in chain failures, resulting in large-scale job losses. At best, companies will survive but will no longer be able to invest enough, which will only delay the economic recovery we need so much. To enable viable businesses to rebound and our economy to rebuild, it is essential to encourage the restructuring of corporate debt. Commercial courts are, of course, the cornerstone of a renegotiation of maturities and receivables. Our duty is also to create new mechanisms to consolidate cash flows: tax relief on the share of income retained in companies, a shift from French savings to businesses, notably through an extension of the IR-SMEs tax reduction, an incentive for renegotiation of debts and the consolidation of debts and debts accumulated through a consolidation loan, for example, which could be guaranteed by the State and depreciable over a period of ten years. At a time of economic recovery, Minister, could you enlighten the national representation on the concrete measures envisaged in the coming months to ensure the sustainability of viable businesses? How do you intend to encourage the restructuring of their debts and the consolidation of their treasury? How do you plan to get the virtuous circle of investment back on track?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u30	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u31	You are right, honourable Member, the issue of corporate cash is a priority. It has been taken into account since the beginning of the crisis thanks to loans guaranteed by the State: more than 650,000 companies have benefited from an EMP, for a total amount that now amounts to almost 131 billion euros. We have already decided to extend the period during which they can use these loans from 31 December 2020 to 30 June 2021; Since Parliament has allocated a budget of 300 billion, we still have a margin. We have negotiated with the banks an additional one-year delay for the repayment of EMPs for the sectors closed. However, the duration of these loans is limited to six years by the Commission. Therefore, there are many questions as to whether these companies will be able to repay in good conditions. However, according to the Banque de France, 65% of the EMPs would not have been used by companies. That's good news, but she's not without asking. For several months, we have been working to find complementary devices. Since 1 January, we announced this with Bruno Le Maire, companies can resort to participative loans which have as their interest not to appear on the balance sheet as debts. We have set a total amount of 20 billion but, of course, we will be open: if this amount is not enough, we will propose to Parliament additional resources. There is also a relatively little-used tool: the repayable advances mechanism, which is processed directly by Bercy, which allows for a three-year repayment delay at an interest rate of 1% over a ten-year period. PGE, participative loans and repayable advances: all of these arrangements seem to us, at first, to be adapted to the situation of companies. I understand your request for consolidation of previous loans. This is a subject on which we are working, particularly with employers' organisations, to find a mechanism that can be accepted at European level.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u32	Mrs Nicole Le Peih has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u33	First of all, I will have an emotional thought for Marielle de Sarnez, chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs of which I am a member. After the first confinement, an investigation by the Amarok Observatory concluded that the health of our entrepreneurs was fragile. This first study on the state of French entrepreneurship and the post-health crisis economic recovery concludes with the following words: "It will certainly be necessary tomorrow to broaden the scope of action of health at work to include the health of non-employees. It is a win-win game because a leader who cares about his or her health is also more concerned about the health of his or her employees. Finally, it should be added that the consequences of a health concern are increasing in small businesses. The smaller the size the more the health of the manager becomes the first intangible capital of his business." Being myself at the head of a TPE, these are realities that I live every day and that my management partners do not fail to remind me regularly. My colleagues Charlotte Parmentier-Lecocq, Carole Grandjean and Cendra Mottin are interested in these topics as part of their work on occupational health and prevention. To speed up the roll-out of the 100 billion recovery plan and to facilitate the ownership of the schemes by entrepreneurs for the post-recession phase, it is necessary to improve their management. To preserve the ability of our companies to bounce back, to ensure a return on investment from our recovery plan, we must accompany these women and men fully committed, but also weakened. Amarok and several consular chambers have launched a second national investigation, the results of which are expected to be known by the end of January. Mr Minister, in view of the efforts of the Government, the consular chambers and the associations, which I thank very much, how can we better coordinate solutions to improve the health of our leaders, how can we make the aid provided more efficient, especially for the most isolated and often the most vulnerable self-employed?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u34	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u35	You are right, Madam Member: like all French people, entrepreneurs face a difficult health situation, and fear for their business. Many need to be accompanied and supported psychologically. That is why the Government has created a green number, 0805650050, which is listening to them; This scheme is based on the APESA association – Psychological assistance for acutely suffering entrepreneurs – which includes mutuals and consular chambers, and allows, with the help of specialists, to follow and accompany entrepreneurs whenever a particular psychological difficulty is identified. Beyond the ad hoc actions linked to the crisis, we must indeed equip ourselves with more appropriate tools in this area. Concertations were held within the framework of the mission led by Deputy Charlotte Parmentier-Lecocq; A few days ago, the social partners signed an agreement on health at work, which gives priority to preventing and monitoring the difficulties of entrepreneurs. A bill on the subject would also be submitted to national representation. Personally, I would only see the benefits of having the mission of occupational medicine focus more on the prevention, listening and accompaniment of the most vulnerable entrepreneurs, especially the self-employed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u36	Mrs Véronique Riotton has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u37	The mountain world is concerned about the situation that its actors are facing. The winter season, well under way, had a sad record: with an announced decline of more than 80% in economic activity, the start of the season was missed. While the mountain actors were waiting for a potential opening of the stations on 7 January, they still have to take their pains in patience. My department, the Haute-Savoie, a territory of daring entrepreneurs, is extremely affected by the closure of its lifts. In winter, tourism makes our stations live, which are global references; It also makes the shops live in the valley, especially the many restaurants that depend on the winter season. It is therefore an ecosystem that is affected, that of the mountain sport industry: manufacturers, industrialists, suppliers and all the other players. The world of the mountain, its culture and its economy are specific. Few organizations are also trained to the unexpected – ski lifts and runway services are used to the hazards of weather and snowfall, among other examples; The harshness of the mountain requires its actors to be agile. The mountain is changing, and the men who serve it adapt their missions every day to its mood swings. In other words, mountain professionals are perfectly able to manage strict sanitary protocols, to organize access to lifts by imposing distancing, and to limit the number of people in cabins. I call for a firm, immediate decision, announced without delay, to open the ski lifts for the February holidays. Mountain professionals need to regain visibility and trust; The survival of tens of thousands of businesses and jobs depends on it. What emergency measures, and especially enlargement measures, are you planning to save this sector so essential to French tourism?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u38	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u39	I want you to know how sensitive I am to this, Madam Member, in order to know your department well and to appreciate its landscapes, as well as the know-how shown by its actors in this period. The Prime Minister and I have exchanged with these professionals three times; On this occasion, we were able to understand the mountain ecosystem and appreciate the responsibility and commitment of its representatives in the search for solutions. However, most of the countries that had planned to open their stations for the end-of-year and early January holidays were forced to give up. Many European countries, including Switzerland – whose situation is certainly different from ours, since decisions are taken by canton – have had to close their stations. This situation is difficult to live in, and we are aware of it. This is why the Prime Minister has introduced exceptional measures for mountain actors: taking charge of the costs of lifts up to 70%; specific compensation for monitors, up to 10000 euros or 20 % of turnover; support for all the activities of the valleys and the mountain communes. I understand that this is not fully satisfactory for mountain actors, as for all professionals who would like to work. The Prime Minister will announce tonight the health perspectives that will guide our decisions on whether or not to open ski resorts. Be assured, however, that we will continue to find the most suitable means to accompany all mountain professionals.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u40	Mrs Pascale Boyer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u41	In the face of the growing spread of the covid -19 at the beginning of November, you had to make the difficult decision to close many shops and gathering places. By limiting the spread of the virus, it was also a matter of allowing the French to enjoy the precious moments of Christmas holidays. These are a crucial moment for traders; The slowing down of the spread of the virus in November judiciously reopened the stores on 28 November and saved this crucial period. Do you have any information on the sales that businesses made during the end of 2020, compared to previous years? We also know that certain activities will not be able to resume immediately – I am thinking in particular of theatres and cinemas, but also of restaurants and even ski lifts. Their actors welcomed government support, which is commensurate with their needs. Can you assure them that they will be renewed for as long as necessary, until their normal activity resumes? Finally, in case of third confinement, can you study the possibility, for shops and local services, of staying open by appointment? This solution would easily limit each person's exits to one or two hours per day; in the event of a check, it would be sufficient to produce a proof of appointment issued by the merchant. This digital appointment-taking solution is already technically ready; It is suitable for all shops, regardless of their size, throughout the territory. Does she seem relevant to you?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u42	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u43	It was very difficult for us to decide to close the shops in November, and that is what led us to put in place an exceptional compensation mechanism which, I hope, allowed the traders to go through this difficult period. In particular, we ensured that these measures were activated quickly: traders were able to file their files as early as 4 December, and many received compensation within 15 days. Nearly 900000 companies received compensation for almost 4 billion euros. Nevertheless, the health situation remains difficult. Announcements are expected this evening from the Prime Minister, and action will have to be taken. We will see how we can support these companies and, of course, in the event of particular difficulties, we will, of course, continue to do so for as long as necessary: it would be ridiculous, after helping them from March 2020 to January 2021, to suddenly withdraw the scale and force them to cease their activity. You are also asking me if, in the event of a new confinement – which I do not hope – we are considering making appointments at traders. My teams and I have been working with sales representatives for several weeks. They themselves had not chosen this solution which could be a little complicated to organize in some cases, especially for the larger structures; But this is a trail that we continue to explore. Finally, economic activity was quite good between the last weekend of November and the end of December, compared to 2019. However, the situation is mixed: while overall activity has increased by about 15%, footwear and clothing businesses have benefited less from this improvement than others, and remain in a particularly complicated situation. That is why we are working with this branch in the best way to accompany it in the future.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u44	Mr Bertrand Sorre has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u45	Elected from a rural department, La Manche, I see, as everywhere in France, a decrease in the number of local shops. In a large number of small villages, there is often only a multi-service trade; It offers basic food products, serves as a deposit for bread, gas and dry cleaning, but often also as a bar-tobacco where it is good to meet for a drink and play cards. It is a real place of life, terribly important for the village. Often held by a single person, the latter trade opens seven days a week, on a large hourly amplitude; It thus contributes strongly to the social bond and to the life of the village. These local shops have not been affected by administrative closures related to confinement, as they offer essential food products. However, their coffee-bar and catering activities had to stop. Their turnover has been severely affected, as this activity is the most profitable and the largest margin. To meet the needs of the local population and the expectations of the mayors, some traders almost immediately offered new services, such as delivery or preparation of orders. This sense of service allowed them to limit the loss of turnover, but sometimes to the point of prohibiting them, to their great regret, from being eligible for aid therefore did not exceed 50%. While they already generate a very modest income in normal times, at the cost of long hours of work, these multi-service businesses are now facing serious financial difficulties. In recent weeks, I have met several of their managers, as well as rural mayors: their concern is real and growing as to the sustainability of this activity, which is essential. How does the Government intend to support, as closely and specifically as possible, these multi-service shops, which are often the last shops in rural villages, and which are so valuable to the social bond and the life of the communes?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u46	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u47	Unfortunately, your observation is real: there are far fewer small businesses than they were about 20 or 30 years ago. I have also asked the Prime Minister, who has accepted it, to refer this issue to the Economic, Social and Environmental Council; before the end of February, he is to provide us with a report on the state of trade in France and on the policies that could revitalize trade in the territories. As I indicated to Mr Molac, we take into account the specific nature of multi-service businesses in rural areas. Sustained policies help ruralists create multi-service activities. Operation 1000 cafés is also intended to respond to the difficulties you have identified. However, institutions which have lost less than 50% of their turnover do not receive special support. In the coming weeks, we will study the mechanisms that could help them maintain their services that are so essential to the territories and to the people. I confirm my commitment to examine this issue very quickly.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u48	We come to the questions of the Republican Group. Mr Patrick Hetzel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u49	Minister, the entire coffee industry, hotels, restaurants and discotheques as well as brewers and beverage distributors are in great difficulty. They need more support. The professionals in the sector, with whom I am in very regular contact, can no longer make "stop and go" announcements from the Government. Within this sector, which really makes France's wealth and the influence of its tourist activity, the hotel industry suffers very strongly. Indeed, since the beginning of the pandemic, hotels are deemed to be open, except that guests are under curfew or confinement, so cannot move. In addition, not all hotel services have the right to be offered. Sometimes the situation becomes truly Kafkaian. The few aids are granted on the basis of two parameters: the APE code – the main activity carried out – and the ERP category – the institution receiving from the public. In fact, this is not very relevant. Thus, whether it is a palace of the Côte d'Azur or a humble inn of countryside, the aid is the same, therefore not proportionate. Another example: companies with an APE hotel code while they also have restaurants do not have access to assistance in the hotel-restaurant category... Since the beginning of the pandemic, hotels without other activities have not been in the aid schemes. It was not until November, but especially December, to see the mechanism begin to be adjusted. Among the desirable measures are, for example, the conversion of the EMP into a tax credit or a tax adapted for depreciation and provisions which could allow investment, an accelerator of growth, a generator of jobs and, of course, VAT. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] While this sector usually invests 15% of its turnover in standards and renovations, it is now totally unable to do so since its turnover has become almost insignificant. The hotel industry is the poor parent of the various agreements. What are you going to do, Minister, what is the Government going to do to change that?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u50	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u51	Mr President, the sector, cafes, hotels, restaurants and discotheques is particularly affected by the crisis. In fact, even if this was not the subject of your question, the discotheques have been even more affected: since March this sector is at zero opening day, while some hotels have been able to open between May and October – less so in Paris and the big cities – and thus regain some activity. However, as you have indicated, they have never been seen as being closed administratively, which initially did not allow them to obtain the same automatic supports as the restaurateurs, even though I am well aware that these automatic supports are still insufficient in relation to the hardness of having to stop working. That is why, together with Bruno Le Maire, and in close consultation with the representatives of hotels and restaurants, we considered it essential to integrate hotels into the same arrangements as those of restaurants since December, i.e. aid of EUR 100 000 or compensation of 20% of turnover or, if we are followed by the European Commission, this new scheme which will allow up to 3 million. Hotels now have access to this facility, as well as restaurants. You're right, it's often companies that need to invest to renovate. In fact, and as I say in my personal capacity, it might be useful to define with these professionals a real plan for the renovation of the hotel industry in France. The work we continue to do regularly – I will still receive their representatives next week – requires us to look at how to accompany them. You're talking about depreciation. I met with the President of the Accounting Standards Authority to see if we could, for 2020, allow companies not to amortise so as not to degrade their balance sheet too much. It is a subject on which we are also working. I can assure you that hotels are part of the plan we are putting in place, even if they are not closed: we are well aware that it is a very important sector of activity that will guarantee tomorrow the future of tourism in France.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u52	Mr Martial Saddier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u53	Minister, I associate my colleagues in Haute-Savoie and Savoie Virginie Duby-Muller, Émilie Bonnivard and Vincent Rolland with my question. Several weeks ago, in the face of the changing health crisis, your government chose not to open ski resorts and ski lifts. This decision has had terrible consequences for the economy of the mountain territories already marked, we have all forgotten, by the early closure of the ski season 2019-2020. Beyond the ski resorts, it is the whole life of our mountain departments that has been affected: we forget it too often, but there is a close link between the economic activity of the valley bottoms and that of the ski resorts. While it is true that your government has, in parallel, quickly put in place and strengthened the existing support scheme, the aid of EUR 10000 and 20% of turnover cannot compensate for losses on activities which essentially generate their turnover over four months, from December to April. It is becoming imperative and urgent to expand the system. In addition to the shops that are the subject of administrative closures, others remain open to the public: sports, rental and sales stores, ski schools, guides, attendants, pharmacies, medical offices, hairdressing salons, supermarkets, food stores or regional products. Of course, they have the right to open, except there is no one! The reality is that they find themselves with a 90% drop in their turnover. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] In view of this fact, which is not contested by anyone, does it seem to me that the Government can reassure national representation, especially those I have just mentioned, and put in place new mechanisms that truly meet the economic challenge of seasonal economic activities?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u54	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u55	I want to assure you that we are well aware of the hardness of the decision for the actors of the mountain, especially since the snow is at the rendezvous... It must be difficult for them to look at this without being able to exercise their fine trades. And, you're right, as far as we're talking about a very seasonal activity, it's naturally over a very short period of time that the turnover is realized. Beyond the somewhat conventional arrangements, if I may say, the EUR 10000 and the 20% of turnover, we have actually worked initially specifically for these actors in order to achieve a larger scheme. We are currently discussing with the European Commission, allowing us to go so far as to cover 70% of the costs of these companies and up to EUR 3 million. If everything goes well, this mechanism, which is being finalized, should be effective at the end of January and naturally take over, since the closure of these enterprises, the whole of what I have just told you. On the other hand, we are well aware that ski lifts irrigate all the economic activities of the resort and the valley, even beyond the mere activity of alpine skiing. The Prime Minister wanted to integrate into the decisions all the actors in the valley concerned, whatever the activity, who will benefit from the same arrangements as those of the tourism actors. We will therefore accompany them as much as possible to try to compensate, at least financially, for the hardness of the decision that has had to be taken.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u56	Mrs Isabelle Valentin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u57	Minister, four digits one letter: it is the APE code that identifies the main industry of a business or self-employed person. How can four digits and one letter block France's economy so much today? How can four digits and one letter destroy thousands of jobs and sometimes erase thirty years of work in family businesses? Since the beginning of the health crisis, the State services have relied on the EPA code to grant exceptional aid. Companies, in all sectors, whose activity has been heavily affected by confinements, curfews or other measures, must apply online. However, if the APE code is not in the S1 or S bis list, the online tool automatically blocks the request... This is how many companies dilapidate their cash flow. As you know, the cash flow of a company is not for this, but for investment. It is also in this way that we leave thousands of entrepreneurs at the edge of the road. The list is long: for example, in my constituency, an entrepreneur, whose main activity is the making of wedding stationery, has as its code APE 1418Z, which corresponds to the name binding and related activities, and therefore does not appear in the list S1... Similarly, an event company, whose code 5829C no longer corresponds to its activities, cannot now claim any exceptional aid while its sector is completely at a standstill. I am also thinking of the beverage distributors that you have received and for which you are very familiar with the problem: the administrative closure of all their customers puts them at great risk without them being able to claim exceptional aid. I will add to this list the multi-services, the caterers and many others who are denied their request. This situation is unfair, as many codes are no longer in line with actual business activity. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Minister, the prefects should be able to have control over the allocation of these aids. They know their territory. Trust the actors, the local elected representatives for closer proximity to the living forces of our territories: this is what we should learn from this health, economic and social crisis that we are going through. We will only make it if we are united and united. I know that you will hear the cry of distress of these many professionals throughout our territories and that you will take appropriate action.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u58	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u59	Yes, four digits, one letter, that's what many entrepreneurs discovered, for which it was almost irrelevant when they were in the usual world, that is, without the health crisis. In fact, for us too, these were only statistical elements. Some companies have changed activity without thinking of changing their EPA code, while the approach is simple. At the beginning of the crisis, when the Government decided to introduce mechanisms that everyone acknowledged to be very powerful, it was necessary to define criteria, since it was public money that should be allocated to those who needed it. The only criterion, which can be challenged but which was used to have powerful and quickly effective tools, was the APE code. Other criteria could have been used, but I don't know which ones. Besides, no one has made any other proposal. You indicate some areas that would not be on the list, such as caterers. I have received representatives from this sector five or six times and I can say that we have taken specific action to accompany them. If a caterer in your riding was not followed, please let us know. You say we need solidarity: I share; You say you have to work with local elected officials: I share. Nevertheless, let me point out that the solidarity fund originally had two levels: Level 1, treated by the State, and Level 2, dealt with by the regions. I do not question the regions because they have done their job. Nevertheless, the observation is clear: 1.7 million companies were treated at level 1, compared to 45,000 at level 2... This means that it is better to have tools that work massively and automatically than situations, even local ones, that must be managed individually, since at the end of the day far fewer actors benefit from the devices. Of the 1.7 million enterprises, many could have benefited from Level 2 but did not have access to it. The tool that has been put in place has thus shown its effectiveness, its speed of execution. I am ready to look at whether any code should be included in the S1 or S1 bis list. In any case, that's what we've done several times over the past several weeks.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u60	Mrs Laurence Trastour-Isnart has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u61	Mr Minister-in-Charge of Small and Medium-sized Enterprises, I will not dispute the scale of the health crisis and the damage it causes; Nor will I question State aid, and aid from regions, departments and municipalities, which are numerous. I want to salute the traders and sectors that have been affected by the covid crisis for a long time: they have shown exemplary courage and resilience. So many sectors have been reached and have had to stop their activity: the food and beverage service sector, the sports sector, the event sector, night festivities, the cultural sector, our ski resorts, all these professionals, these men and women who work and want to continue working. Many of these professionals are concerned about uncertainties and the Government's frustrations. They want only one thing: to be able to reopen their doors, their shops, to be able to resume their activity. In Saint-Paul de Vence, a tourist resort in my constituency, some 20 tourism-dependent companies, employing about 60 people directly, are at risk because they are not on the list of companies eligible for all the aid, even if their activity is directly linked to tourism. In Cagnes-sur-Mer, Saint-Laurent-du-Var, Villeneuve-Loubet, La Colle-sur-Loup, more than twenty sports halls and several hundred restaurants are also in danger. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] On 16 March 2020, the President of the Republic stated that no company would be at risk of bankruptcy: he would be pleased if this promise were fulfilled. So is my question simple, minister: are you going, yes or no, to help all the traders and professionals who are permanently affected by the crisis of the Covid -19, not by giving them financial aid but by simply allowing them to reopen their doors? Will these companies be able to resume their business or will they eventually disappear?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u62	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u63	Mrs Trastour-Isnart, all over the world, in all the countries that are fighting against this virus, restaurants and cafes have been closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u64	Not in Sweden!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u65	This is certainly not satisfactory, and I share your compassion for these professionals and your admiration for their courage and determination. You deplore the fact that tourism-related activities would not benefit from the support mechanisms that have been put in place: I am at your disposal to examine these cases, as I did for the perfumery Galimard de Grasse, where I visited a few weeks ago and which was excluded from the support scheme. We have finally integrated it into these schemes under the heading of economic tourism. Do not hesitate to ask me whether in Vence, Cannes or elsewhere, companies whose activity depends directly on tourism do not benefit from these arrangements: I am at your disposal to integrate them into the S1 or S1 bis sectors, as we have been doing for several weeks. While you may disagree with the Government's policy, we maintain that these administrative closures were essential. It is clear that European countries which had initially decided not to proceed with such closures, such as Germany, are now forced to take the same measures as France, and sometimes even harder. We will have the opportunity, both of us, to take stock, when the time comes, of the policy that has been carried out; For the time being, I simply note that we are accompanying a large number of companies and that, for the time being, even if it is difficult, these companies are holding on. We will continue to work so that they can continue to hold.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u66	We turn to questions from the Group of the Party of European Socialists and Related Democrats. Mr Bruno Fuchs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u67	First of all, on my behalf and on behalf of the whole MODEM Group, I would like to express our great sadness since the announcement of the death yesterday of Marielle de Sarnez. I extend our condolences to his family and loved ones, who are extremely numerous. I have two questions, Minister Delegate for Small and Medium Enterprises. The first concerns the opening of shops on Sundays. The Government has imposed a curfew from 6 p.m. in 25 departments, which may be extended to others, or even to the whole of France, which will lead to a concentration of procurement in a shorter period. Would it not be appropriate to extend the derogations from the opening of shops on Sundays, so as to relieve the congestion of these shops, or even to allow some students to find an activity, and thus to recreate a little job? My second question concerns the suppliers of coffees, hotels and restaurants. The Government has deployed extremely large amounts of aid to coffee shops, hotels and restaurants, and even if they are in great pain, the impact of the crisis on their business is amortized, which is not the case at present for their suppliers and wholesalers, whose upstream activity is, however, directly dependent on that of their customers. In my region of the Great East, the fourteen companies that share this sector of activity suffer from not being entitled to the same aid. Do you intend to grant them the benefit of either an exceptional aid scheme or one of the existing aid schemes to enable them to hope for the future survival of their company?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u68	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u69	You are right, honourable Member: these companies, the beverage wholesalers in particular, are among those that were not sufficiently supported in terms of the nature of their business. That is why, for several weeks, we have first met all the representatives of wholesalers, especially those whose activity depends on that of cafes, hotels and restaurants, and I confirm that we are about to find with these professionals a device adapted to their situation. It is of course essential for them: it is clear that when coffees and restaurants are closed, wholesalers do not sell anything. They even offered to me to seek with them how to compensate for losses due to exceeding the expiry date of their goods. We look in detail at how to accompany them: they are not very numerous, you pointed out, and they are often family businesses. As far as opening on Sundays is concerned, we, Bruno Le Maire and I, several weeks ago, brought together all the representatives of the branches concerned, be it the large distribution or the local trade. All were in favour of opening every Sunday in December and January. We made it automatic for the month of December; for the month of January, it is a matter of social dialogue. Elizabeth Borne looks at how these devices can be activated. In the immediate future, it is the usual devices that apply, through prefectural authorizations; But the minister is looking at how this can change or not according to the decisions of the social partners.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u70	Mrs Pascale Fontenel-Person has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u71	When we see, Mr Minister responsible for small and medium-sized enterprises, that since the beginning of the session, most of the questions are about the tourism economy, we can see how important it is to our country. I am not going to derogate from the rule since I am going to ask you in my turn about tourism, in particular the lack of visibility that this sector suffers from, even if you are obviously not responsible for it. For months, announcements of potential re-opening dates have followed without real realization for restaurateurs, bars, discotheques, cultural venues or this winter for ski resorts. Similarly with regard to the event sector, and in particular the organizers of major events with consequent gauges, recovery is absolutely not possible. However, this sector is essential for the economic activity of many players, such as hoteliers or caterers. I obviously welcome the arrangements already in place, in particular the S1 list and the adaptation of the Solidarity Fund; I thank and congratulate you and your cabinet for your listening and for your responsiveness to the requests of parliamentarians. Nevertheless, the feeling of anxiety is progressing – I do not teach you anything. The claim of these actors is simple: if the State is not in a position to give them concrete and precise dates of reopening, they wish at least to obtain a guarantee as to the duration of the aid systems from which they can benefit. As such, is it conceivable that the benefit of this aid will not be granted on a monthly basis but for the entire duration of the pandemic? A transparent, simple and unambiguous system would remove the many doubts of these major players in the recovery and allow them to consider the recovery without having to negotiate the maintenance of these aids every month, which is psychologically burdensome.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u72	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u73	Very good question!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u74	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u75	Indeed, honourable Member, many of the questions you are asking me today relate to tourism. It's legitimate, but it also proves that many industries are working: today, almost 90% of our economy continues to work, and it's happy. But for those who don't work, it's very hard, because they're closed. That's why my employees and I work every day, on a case-by-case basis, branch by branch, to adapt the devices. I am pleased that we have had on several occasions, Madam Commissioner, an opportunity to discuss the situation of certain branches. Allow me a personal confidence: how much I would like everything to be open! How much I would like, just as much as you, I am sure, to be able to resume a normal social life, to share moments of pleasure at the restaurant, to taste the dishes concocted by our chefs! Unfortunately the health situation is such that we cannot at the moment indicate dates of reopening: I would like to but it is impossible. Last week I received the representatives of the event sector: we looked with them for how we can accompany them the coming day, and we will continue this work. With regard to the lack of visibility, even if there is no specific date, I can confirm to you what the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister have said: the State will continue to accompany companies in the same way as long as there are administrative closures, and will maintain exactly the same level of aid. We are not going to let these entrepreneurs down; We will continue to accompany them as long as necessary, until economic activity resumes. I solemnly confirm that this is the commitment of the President of the Republic and what the Government will implement.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u76	Mrs Nadia Essayan has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u77	On Thursday 7 January, Prime Minister Jean Castex confirmed the extension of the curfew at 8 p.m. until 20 January, stating that it could be advanced at 6 p.m. in ten departments, including mine, the Cher, in addition to the fifteen where it was already the case. Jean-Christophe Bouvier, Prefect of Cher, confirmed it on Saturday 8 January: curfew is well advanced at 6 p.m. in this department since Sunday. Although I support the decisions of the Government locally, I also understand that the Government is not well perceived by local elected officials in my department. If it understands itself in view of the resurgence of the virus in Cher, with an incidence rate of 213.90 according to the Regional Health Agency, it seems possible and desirable to act on other levers, including the acceleration of vaccination. While the Government is studying the path of the generalization of curfew at 6 p.m. throughout the country, I am concerned with them about the impact of such a measure on the finances of our traders. Since one third of food purchases are made between 5.30 p.m. and 8 p.m., it is a vital niche for many of our businesses. A phenomenon of postponement is therefore to be expected, with the risk of a concentration of purchases on Saturdays. These concerns are widely expressed by the retail sector: the clothing sector estimates that this measure will result in a loss of 25 to 30 per cent of its turnover, and do not talk about the buralists. Moreover, the extension of this curfew risks having an impact on the sale to take away, to which our traders are increasingly resorting to maintain their activity despite the health situation. I am aware, Mr Minister responsible for small and medium-sized enterprises, that my questions are not necessarily simple: have we quantified the impact of this measure on the turnover of traders? How does the Government intend to compensate for these losses? Is the generalization of the authorization to open on Sundays, desired by several elected officials and traders, envisaged by the Government?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u78	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u79	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u80	You are right, honourable Member, to move the curfew forward at 6 p.m. has an impact on economic activity. You also know that it is a matter for the Government to avoid as much as possible a reconfinition that would be totally dramatic, first of all for the French as a whole on the psychological level, but also for the companies: we saw the impact of the confinement of March, and even though the reconfinition of November was less rigorous, it was also very difficult. We therefore expect from this curfew at 6 p.m. that it will allow us to avoid a reconstitution. I come specifically to your question. At this point, I do not have figures to measure the real effects of the extra closing time – in the order of one hour in the Cher – on these activities. There are several avenues to consider. You mentioned the opening on Sunday: we have considered extending this possibility, which Elizabeth Borne is working on. Perhaps one might also think, in the Cher for example, of an opening of the shops during the two hours of meridian break, to compensate the closing time at the end of the day. I even found that some businesses opened earlier in the morning. Traders will find solutions to adapt themselves. You are right to mention the difficulty of selling by click and collect and the sale to take away; But once again, everyone will adapt. The financial implications for each activity will be analysed very quickly in order to determine whether aid should be adjusted in the light of observed situations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u81	We come to the questions of the Socialist and Related Group. Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u82	The business sector – trade shows, congresses, fairs – has been particularly affected by the crisis. It organizes a multitude of events that contribute to the economic influence of France; But it is in a dramatic situation. The activities of companies organising major events are – logically – interrupted since March and thousands of jobs are at risk. In addition to the establishment of a strict health protocol adapted to each event when recovery is possible, the players in this sector, who are very involved, are calling for specific measures to help the sector and to organise the management of partial unemployment – in particular its duration and conditions. They also ask that the conditions for the resumption of activity be laid down in advance, what health gauges and what adaptation measures specific to these events may be envisaged. What is the status, for example, of the Ministry of Health's validation of the health repository? It takes several months to organize these events. Even if the recovery date is not known, which is understandable, the situation of the undertakings concerned needs to be clarified. The industry also calls for the inclusion of service providers in the well-known lists of S1 and S1 bis companies, as they also suffer from the cessation of these activities. Some of them, in fact, depend exclusively on the event sector – in the areas of assembly, restoration, design or fashion. The timetable for repayment of State-guaranteed loans should also be specified. Mr Le Maire, announcing the extension of these deadlines from 1 March 2021 to 1 March 2022, referred to hotels and restaurants but not to events; Is this an oversight? [[Applause on the SOC benches]] Finally, the USSRAFs should be made more aware of the issue of the EPA code, which had already been mentioned, with greater flexibility.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u83	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u84	Indeed, the event is one of the sectors most severely affected by the crisis. I have met with the actors on several occasions, including last week, to consider the recovery, knowing that the competition is tough in this sector: many major fairs organised in France are now competing with Italian or Spanish fairs that seek to prick their place, if I dare say... We are therefore very attentive to this, because these trade fairs and congresses generate a large volume of secondary economic activity – for example in hotels, restaurants and, more generally, in French life. If the event has experienced particular difficulties, it is because it is not a sector of activity as such. The representatives of the industry with which we worked first had difficulty in identifying the actors involved, apart from a few large groups. Last week, for example, they told me that carpenters are involved; Carpenters are obviously not included in the list of S1 and S1a sectors since they continue to work normally. Some of them, however, are affected by the closure of trade fairs; We will therefore consider how to accompany them. You see it: we are determined to identify all the very many players in the industry, often very small companies in sectors that are not directly related to the event. We can do this, with the help of the actors themselves. The second point is that once the resumption is allowed, it will take a few months before the actual events take place. It is therefore necessary to look at the support of the actors during this period. As for the partial activity, we naturally guaranteed that they would continue to take full responsibility for it; Élisabeth Borne and I are looking at what accompaniment solution will be adopted during the initial recovery period, when the employees return to their posts when the activity has not yet restarted. In short, the honourable Member, the Government is very sensitive to the situation in this important field, which it is determined to support.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u85	Mrs Laurence Dumont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u86	As a member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and on behalf of all the members of the Socialist and Related Group, I associate myself with the tributes paid to Marielle de Sarnez since yesterday. She has presided with talent and passion over our beautiful Foreign Affairs Committee. My first question, Minister Delegate, is about the situation of suppliers, especially distributors of beverages. The administrative closure of cafés and restaurants has led them to lose 70% to 95% of their turnover; The consequences for these companies are clear. It is therefore incomprehensible that they do not receive the same financial support from the State as bars and restaurants. Advocacy groups for coffee and restaurant suppliers have been established in many regions. They propose concrete measures to sustain jobs in the sector, in particular the full coverage of partial unemployment, and to support cash flows, in particular by adapting the Solidarity Fund to the fixed costs of enterprises. The first answers you have given this afternoon, Minister Delegate, are too vague to reassure us and reassure them; Can you clarify? Second point: the aid granted under the Solidarity Fund to companies practicing click and collect, a subject raised yesterday in questions to the Government. Since a December decree, turnover under this method of sale has been taken into account in the overall turnover which determines the amount of aid, hence the possible reduction of the aid in question. Yesterday, in his reply, Olivier Dussopt seemed to reverse; When will this disastrous decree of December be corrected so that the revenue related to the click and collect is no longer included in the calculation of the amounts paid in respect of the solidarity fund?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u87	Yes, it's important!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u88	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u89	[[Mr. Jean-Louis Bricout applauds]] I am going from the outset to accept one of your wishes, Mrs Dumont, as you wished: this very morning I signed an amending decree concerning the sale by click and collect, so that the income thus received does not form part of the calculation of the aid paid under the solidarity fund. My colleagues concerned will certainly sign this decree during the day; So the arrangement will disappear – and that is quite normal. I come to the wholesalers, with whom I have been working for several weeks. Many have put in place appropriate arrangements, but there is still a problem in the beverage sector. Here again, I will be precise: before the end of the month, I hope even next week, we will make a specific decision to allow wholesalers of beverages to be compensated at the right level of their difficulties. In the meantime, they are not left behind as they benefit from the mechanism of partial activity and State-guaranteed loans. The solidarity fund, however, was not adapted to their situation; We'll straighten the shot.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u90	We come to the questions of the Group of the European People's Party. Mr M'jid El Guerrab has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u91	Finally!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u92	The moment is painful for all of us, members of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, who have just lost our chairman; All my thoughts go to Marielle de Sarnez and her family. Companies owned by French nationals established abroad are governed by local law. They are therefore not eligible for government aid – neither for partial unemployment, the solidarity fund, nor State-guaranteed loans. In addition, the vast majority of them do not receive any public assistance from the country where they are located. They therefore find themselves in great difficulty, to the point that 70% of them expect their turnover to fall in 2020, and 46% expect a loss of at least 30%. However, these companies contribute to the value of French know-how abroad and must be closely monitored. We welcome the deployment of the export support plan, but it favours French companies and their subsidiaries. The other levers of support mainly concern entrepreneurs and emergency social assistance, which, moreover, is very modest in the face of the scale of the crisis. French entrepreneurs abroad do not ask for social assistance, but for structural economic aid to overcome the crisis. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has planned a special aid covid-19 in the form of the occasional relief of solidarity – SOS – which has been saving many of our compatriots, and which should therefore be extended, but we must think of all the entrepreneurs established abroad in the food, tourism and hospitality sectors, and of the catering sector – respectively, first, fourth and fifth sectors of activity among French companies abroad. These sectors will not only suffer from health restrictions; They depend on consumer confidence. However, it is likely that consumption will remain at dull for months or even years. It is therefore necessary to support these entrepreneurs whose activity is positive for the image of France abroad. Their companies are under local law, but their managers are all ambassadors of French know-how and know-how. "If you want to be international, sing your country," said Beethoven...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u93	He defended his compatriots well!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u94	So my question is simple: are you planning any additional measures to help French entrepreneurs abroad?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u95	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u96	I pay tribute to your work in favour of these very important undertakings. We have asked the economic missions and the ambassadors to follow them in order to identify their specific needs. It is true, however, that in terms of the support they receive, the differences are profound compared to companies operating in France. So, like you, I think we need to study how best to accompany them, as they play an important role. I stand at your disposal to explore your possible proposals in this area.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u97	Mrs Annie Chapelier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u98	Like M'jid El Guerrab, I associate myself with the tribute to Marielle de Sarnez. To deal with the pandemic, we have chosen to divide activities into two categories: essential and non-essential. Since human beings are social, their mental health depends on interpersonal contacts and a certain amount of outside activity. Since culture and sport have been deemed non-essential and, de facto, prevented by curfew, the French only have the possibility of going to consume. In some types of businesses, however, it is difficult to say that the application of health regulations is commensurate with the freedoms offered to them. Many, if not all, parliamentarians in their constituencies have observed phenomena of crowding, cohue, overpopulation, especially in large areas and shopping malls, especially at certain times of the year. The Government has chosen to trust these actors, but has not given them to others. Given the density of their use, especially when the reception gauges are not respected, large areas are undeniably contamination sites, more than small shops, cultural venues and restaurants, which are much more able to ensure adequate preventive conditions by an appropriate organization. In addition, they help to foster confidence between the French, as in the future of our economy. Trusting restaurateurs and places of culture is also true. [[Applause on the benches of the Action ens group]] My question is therefore simple: why are large areas, in the broad sense of the term, not subject to checks to measure the health risks they pose? And when blind trust is given to them, why is it denied to the restaurateurs and the world of culture?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u99	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u100	First of all, I would like to point out to you that when the shops that were not essential were closed, the Prime Minister wanted equal treatment between the shops in the city centre and the large distribution, deciding to close, for the latter, the shelves and activities that were closed in the city centre. With regard to the health criteria, we have made a specific decision for all stores with a surface area of more than 400 square meters: they have an obligation to set up an entrance count to ensure compliance with the traffic gauge imposed on the large distribution – which is the subject of your question. Let us be clear; Like you, I'm watching. We were able to see that, despite this count, groups were created within the stores – images were broadcast, which did not correspond to what we wanted. So I personally asked the Directorate-General for Competition, Consumer Affairs and Fraud Prevention to instruct the prefects to carry out controls – there were many, more than 800 – and to impose sanctions – that was the case. We will continue to be vigilant, because all actors must play the game. Naturally, in shops, the rules of social distancing, essential to stopping the spread of the virus, must be respected. To that end, we will, of course, continue to call on the supervisory authorities to exercise the utmost firmness.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u101	We come to the questions of the IDU and independent group. Mr Christophe Naegelen has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u102	As we discuss the situation of the businesses that are lastingly affected by the crisis, Minister Delegate, I cannot fail to have first of all an emotional thought for Rudy, a bistro-in-train of my territory, a true actor in our local economy, who died brutally this week. I have a sincere and affectionate thought for his family and loved ones. The hope for a reopening of bars and restaurants on 20 January has been wiped out by recent Government announcements, which continue to weaken these establishments. However, since the beginning of the second wave, they have been constantly looking for solutions and adopting sanitary protocols to accommodate their customers by ensuring their safety. Once again closed, two thirds of these professionals claim to be threatened with permanent closure. Admittedly, aid has been introduced: no, it is not sufficient; Yes, there are forgotten people. I am thinking of Mrs Knanov's crepery, based in Remiremont, who, for opening on 3 October, does not meet the eligibility criteria; It is excluded from aid, in particular from access to the solidarity fund. First of all, could you study this specific case – which is not unique in fact – in order to find a solution for Mrs Knanov? Moreover, in making this decision, it is a whole part of our economy that we leave aside, because restaurants are necessary for many related activities. As with road restaurants, do you envisage, Minister Delegate, extending the permits so that restaurants can accommodate workers, especially those in the construction sector – building and public works – who eat, every noon, in the cold?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u103	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u104	I would like to associate myself with the support you have expressed to the family and loved ones of this restorer. This is a dramatic situation, and we can only be moved and united, and regret this tragedy. You think that financial support for this sector is not enough. Perhaps there were more complicated periods, but the current agreement was reached with the professionals themselves. I would point out that the hotel and restaurant representatives considered that 15% of their turnover was needed to cover their costs: we went up to 20%. In addition, for those with big business, a device will allow us to go even further. You refer to the particular case of a person who opened his restaurant on October 3. It is true that, as weeks went by, we changed the opening date for the aid. For the time being, the deadline is 30 September 2020. However, as the crisis continues, this date will have to be postponed in order to allow all those who took the initiative to open up afterwards, thinking that the difficulties were behind us, to access the aid as well. If you give me his contact details, I am ready, honourable Member, to look for a solution for the crepery you mentioned. You also asked me about construction contractors and their employees. I had already been alerted by professional organizations; As a result, we have provided communities with the opportunity to make available heated spaces so that these employees can eat their game, if you allow me the expression, without being forced to do so outside. In my view, the problem for the building sector is now solved.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u105	Mr Guy Bricout has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u106	As we prepare our questions in advance, I will have to repeat those already asked earlier by another colleague. But we know that repetition improves understanding and information! The health and economic crisis is taking root, and our businesses continue to suffer. In 2020, more than 638000 of them were eligible for state-guaranteed loans; 89% of these beneficiaries were very small businesses. The banks distributed EUR 130 billion. According to a study carried out by MEDEF, 95 % of the projects were considered to be very effective and the scheme was due to expire at the end of March for many companies. I no longer include coffee makers, hoteliers, restaurateurs, managers of leisure spaces or cultural organizations in my constituency who are concerned about this situation. For them, the difficulties are accumulating; their cash and equity are at the lowest level. Indeed, for many months, companies have had to postpone many deadlines: monthly payments of current credits, rents, charges. On the day the recovery comes, it will make a lot of repayments to honour: it therefore seems to me important to preserve the ability of companies to rebound after the crisis. I have no doubt that my colleagues, all over France, are also being questioned. Mr. Deputy Minister, is the Government considering a one-year extension of the initial repayment period for EMPs for companies requesting it? Beyond this, as proposed by the Confederation of Small and Medium-sized Enterprises (CPME), and as is the practice of our German neighbours, it is particularly expected that companies will be able to pool all their accumulated debts and debts to repay them with a consolidation loan made by the State and depreciable over a period of ten years.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u107	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u108	The repetition of the questions leads to the repetition of the answers – at least, in my case, I hope! First of all, I am well aware of the difficulty that may eventually be represented by what I have called the debt wall in its time. After consulting the banks, I confirm that for those areas that are closed, repayment of the EMP will be carried forward for an additional year. On the other hand, for longer-term viable companies with projects, we are going to introduce participatory loans. They will have the advantage of not being included as a debt in the company's balance sheet. We have set aside €20 billion for this new tool. Finally, repayable advances, managed directly by the State, will allow companies to have an advance at the rate of 1% and depreciable over a decade, with the first repayments being postponed up to three years. All these tools are used to support businesses. On the other hand, I have in mind the idea of a consolidation loan, which you proposed. But from the moment when the state guarantees it, we must first of all, you know, discuss it with Europe, because these loans could be regarded as state aid. We will therefore have to work with the banks on this point. The question is asked, we are working on it – I think we still have a few weeks ahead of us. We are thinking about how to support businesses, but I sincerely believe that in terms of cash flow and liquidity, we currently have tools tailored to our needs. If necessary, we will, of course, look at how to further improve the situation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u109	We come to the questions of the Group of the European People's Party. Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u110	We all know that the country's economy is going wrong, and unfortunately it is not inadequate aid that will change this situation for a long time to come. Indeed, many actors remain, alas, on the tile. Don't you think the country would rather need a clear course? That energy and the desire to undertake should be liberated? Whatever their sector of activity, business leaders do not ask for charity: they want to live, and live, by hiring. We note that you place too much importance on shopping malls, to the detriment of downtown shops and local shops, which are nevertheless a major issue. So, how do you intend to energize the city centres? What is the status of the city centre revitalization plan, launched in 2018 with €5 billion over five years? More specifically, are you in favour of extending this programme to all the overseas municipalities? In addition, what future do you propose to the local shops that are in the gaps? What, too, are the foremen, the owners of rides, bar-trucks and game-trucks? How do you intend to support them? The situation in the cultural world, which is also hard hit by the crisis, is even more complicated in the overseas world, which is completely abandoned. How will the state help this sector to continue to create and value these creations? Finally, what quick answer can you bring to the world of events in the broad sense, which is, today, totally devastated? The same fight for the sports world: athletes can only practice in a small way; Clubs lose members and major events are cancelled, causing so many financial losses. What are you planning for this area? You have only provided us, Minister Delegate, partial and unspecified answers. Be aware that the different actors need, above all, clear answers and to be accompanied by a strong and proactive policy.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u111	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u112	I do not share your opinion on the inadequacy of aid. The solidarity fund, exemptions from social security contributions and State-guaranteed loans are tools that generally met the needs of businesses. It can be seen that the year 2020, which was so catastrophic in health terms, has seen the economic fabric continue. We have paid particular attention to small businesses – and it is above all for them that the Solidarity Fund has been designed. In fact, it is now rather the large groups that come to see us, because the arrangements, which covered small businesses, were not suitable for them. I have personally analysed many cases of shops closed in November, and I have found that the turnover of a very large part of them has been offset in full by the scheme introduced. Moreover, not a day goes by without my colleague the Minister for Overseas Affairs, we were not looking at how to properly and sufficiently accompany the ultramarine companies. I repeat: we are working with determination and precision to find the right devices. As far as the event is concerned, I will not deny the difficulty you mentioned. But I received representatives from the sector a few days ago, and we looked at how to accompany all the companies involved. When the time comes, we will be at their side to allow them to resume their activities.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u113	We have to hurry!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u114	Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u115	In the continuation of my colleague Jean-Hugues Ratenon, Minister Delegate, I will also ask you about culture. In Spain, it was not sacrificed to the crisis: the theatres are open, despite the epidemic; Due to strict sanitary protocols, no outbreaks of contamination were detected. This is not the case in France, which is something that many people are emolucidating about. In Montreuil, in my constituency, a few weeks ago, more than 500 people were gathered to protest the closure of cultural sites. This closure of cinemas, museums, theatres and theatres, under the auspices of President Macron and the Government, is a political and non-healthy choice. The Council of State itself has recognized that these sites are no more conducive to contamination than others. The president of the Scientific Council repeated three times that this closure was not the result of a health recommendation, but of a government choice. Can you explain to us, Minister Delegate, how the BHV or any other institution of the same order would expose more to the virus than a museum? In department stores, customers cross over, touch the items, rest them. The museums are more spacious, more airy, and you know that we don't touch the Mona Lisa. Why, then, is this difference in treatment between trade and culture? Another incoherence: since December, auction rooms have been able to reopen, while their configuration is substantially that of a theatre; We sit there in a chair to listen carefully to the people who run the session. The theatres, however, remain closed. More auctions than a Molière coin, that's the government's motto! [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] So what is the principle that guides your decisions? If you want to keep cultural places closed, make sure that culture continues to live, as the unions demand. The State must draw up an emergency plan for employment, finance working days for all professionals in the sector, which could thus, as far as possible, limit the breakage, and above all prepare the follow-up. If you do not allow artists to play, let them at least work, write, repeat. Without this, culture dies, and our society with it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u116	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u117	I fully agree with you about the indispensability of a mechanism for reviving culture, which is as necessary for many French people as food. It is an essential component of our society, especially since France has the chance to have exceptional actors, writers and professionals. The choice to stop one sector of activity, whatever it may be, can always be contested: why this one rather than another? We did not close the shops of first necessity, because it was necessary for the French to be able to feed themselves; We closed the other facilities, unfortunately many, not because they were contamination sites, but because we had to reduce interactions. Our message was as follows: "From the moment you leave does not respond to a vital necessity, stay at home, so that you do not contaminate each other's contact. The restaurateurs, too, objected that coronavirus was not caught more in their establishments than elsewhere – although the latest studies in France tend to prove the opposite. Roselyne Bachelot returns to the subject at each meeting; She works a lot with the actors of culture. We have introduced financial support for the cultural sector, although these professionals want to be able to work, to irrigate France from their art. You are quoting Spain: in Madrid, the open establishments were opened as part of an experiment which we are following closely, and which Roselyne Bachelot proposed to the Prime Minister to imitate in the coming weeks, in order to see how we could reopen these indispensable places of culture.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u118	Mr Bruno Bilde has the floor for the non-attached Members.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u119	Deputy Minister, for a year now our country has been confronted with the epidemic of covid-19. This health crisis will have revealed the extreme fragility of our health system, but also and above all, when it comes to remedying its social and economic consequences, the chronic incapacity, the dramatic insufficiency of the government of which you are part. You have never ceased to deceive yourself, to fail, to impose on the French measures as absurd as they are ineffective. In recent months, you have without any hesitation closed shops, restaurants, bars, discotheques, gyms or cinemas, theatres, museums, ski lifts; But, by ideology, you never closed our borders to prevent the spread of the virus. After "those who are nothing", you created a new category of French: those who are not essential, sacrificed them, condemned to inactivity, to anguish, to insecurity, and now reached the point of rupture. Since March, however, they have obeyed all your instructions. They started delivering and selling to take away, spaced their tables and reduced their number, set up their terraces, arranged hydro-alcoholic lotions, asked their customers to register to facilitate tracing in the event of contamination. Tonight, the Prime Minister should announce to them an umpteenth test: the generalization of curfew at eighteen o'clock, of which no scientific study has shown the relevance. Minister Delegate, what will be the concrete translation of the macro-economic "whatever it costs" if the Government leaves 30 to 40 per cent of the enterprises belonging to the most affected sectors to disappear? The French do not ask for alms; They just want to regain the right to work!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u120	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u121	Mr Bilde, you have expressed your position, I respect it, but let me tell you that I do not share it. All your interventions are aimed at criticizing the Government's policy. It is your right, but I have never heard you offer any example to follow that exists in the world and that would be particularly virtuous, apart from the models in which freedom would have completely disappeared, which is not our objective.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u122	Come on!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u123	At the end of the day, what you call the macronist system now supports companies in difficulty. I hope that we will not achieve 30 % closures, even in the most affected sectors; For the time being, we have seen a 30% drop in radiation in 2020. The State will continue this financial support, no matter what the cost: we will take stock when the time comes, and we will see how, in the end, our country will have faced this crisis. Finally, the decisions we have made have enabled our health care system to hold on; We can collectively be proud and satisfied with this, especially in comparison to how other countries treat their citizens in this area.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u124	The questions session on the situation of trade and other sectors affected by the covid-19 crisis was completed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u125	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u126	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u127	The next item is the debate on housing policy. The Conference of Presidents decided to organize this debate in two parts: as a first step, we will hear the speakers of the groups and then the Government; We will then conduct a question-and-answer session. Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u128	It was my colleague Stéphane Little who should have intervened this afternoon but, having been tested positive at Covid-19, he placed himself in isolation properly in such a situation. On the occasion of this week of government control, the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left decided, once again, to place housing at the heart of the debates. A constituent element of human dignity, a right of constitutional value, a priority concern of the French, yet housing is the great sacrifice of your policy: no ministry of full exercise; a budget cut year after year; a law on housing, planning and digital development – ELAN – which is harmful in many respects, I will come back to it; repeated attacks on beneficiaries of housing allowances; Planing of an unprecedented scale in the resources of HLM organizations. To sum up, deregulation and technocratisation are the main words of your housing policy, which gives very poor results. On this and other matters, however, we keep warning you about the dangerous nature of these liberal recipes. On this and other topics, you do not listen to any criticism and refuse to question your software. Yet the result is clear: the housing crisis has never reached such a level of severity. In the sixth world economic power, nearly 15 million French people suffer from poor housing conditions. Even before the health crisis, 300,000 people were homeless in our country. It should be noted that this figure, which was made public by the Court of Auditors last October, is twice as high as in 2012. Nearly 3 million people live in overcrowded, uncomfortable, precarious housing. Unfortunately, the health crisis worsens the situation: since the first confinement, 6 to 7 million of our citizens have experienced serious difficulties in paying their rent or the maturities of their bank loan; Expulsion procedures are exploding. Despite this, you refuse to take exceptional measures to cushion the shock. Your persistence is driving our country into a housing crisis and social regression, but you have decided to devote less than 1% of the EUR 100 billion in the recovery plan to the most vulnerable in our country. The share of housing in the household budget has never been greater. Housing construction is collapsing in all sectors: in social housing as well as in home ownership, in the city and in the countryside, in residential housing as a collective. The turnover rates in the rental sector, both public and private, are at the lowest, creating a huge traffic jam whose impact we see in emergency accommodation. This contributes to increasing the number of applicants for HLM housing, whose number has never been so high – 2 million households are waiting. Despite all this, you continue to dry the area. According to the recently published report on the housing account for 2019, public housing subsidies have never been so low since the creation of this indicator in 1984. As if that were not enough, the Government, adding to the "at the same time", increases the levies on the sector, to the point that we come to a grotesque situation where the State collects more than two euros for each euro of aid it pays. How is it surprising that the country is plunged into an unprecedented housing crisis, with its lot of distress and human drama? How many families who are poorly housed, homeless, or unable to cope with housing expenses are knocking at the door of our parliamentary offices to call for help? Stéphane Little and I, elected from popular suburbs, receive dozens a week. Unrelentingly, we write to the mayors, public and private donors, the prefect or sub-prefect, to Action logement, to plead here and there, always with the same determination, in favour of these women – for there are many women – and of these men and children – who, despite their tenacity, fail to obtain this decent and sustainable roof that would finally allow them to lead a normal life. Given the unique history of our country in this area, how can we accept such a situation? So far, however, our housing policy has been an effective shock absorber of crises. Housing policy was effective because it was based on a mixed economy: one public leg and the other private, a short-term economy and a long-term economy, to support each other alternately, in order to walk. Although we repeat that this dynamic balance is the right one, you have no cure for it. The public leg being your enemy, you break it. You put our HLM model down yet envied beyond our borders.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u129	She's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u130	You are increasingly disengaged from the aid to the stone. You are attacking the personalized housing aids – APL – and, with all shame, you are entrusting the keys to the private market, resulting in the disastrous effects that we are seeing around the world.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u131	Always the market!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u132	Should we remind you that without this public leg, namely the social housing sector, Abbé Pierre's appeal in 1954 would not have obtained a national response of such magnitude? Deputy Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, this course is deadly. All the actors in the housing sector are telling you: we are facing a time bomb that must quickly defuse if you are, like us, aiming at the objective of housing our fellow citizens with dignity. I would add that this housing crisis increases social segregation. In 92, the department of Hauts-de-Seine, we know what rich ghettos are. You're denouncing separatism? It's here, it's a social separatism. I could list for a long time the bad figures of your policy and the human tragedies that result from it. You refuse to listen to the housing players and to hear their many interesting proposals that would stop the machine and put the general interest back at the heart of your housing policy. With his usual humility, the President of the Republic invited us to reinvent ourselves. The members of the GDR Group, who are always ready to do so, are therefore making proposals to you. Start by re-establishing a Ministry of Housing of its own right, with its own budget. Housing should be a major national cause. Return to your measures with negative effects, in particular by suspending the reduction of solidarity rent for HLM donors: we now have the necessary step back to assess the extent to which this measure severely affects the investment capacities of social housing organizations. Put an end to the defiscalization mechanisms that have no other effect than to promote multi-ownership, and re-establish the accession LPA to help with the first accession. Also come back to the most destructive measures of the ELAN law: the addicts to the law for solidarity and urban renewal – SRU – whose twenty years we have just celebrated; the forced sale of HLM; the precarization of leases. Out of the scope of the APL reform, which entered into force on 1 January, the beneficiaries who suffer negative effects, starting with the young active ones. Amplify the "housing first" plan and encourage building mayors. In Gennevilliers, in my constituency of the Hauts-de-Seine, your policy has had the effect of increasing waiting times for housing from an average of four to six years. Take your inspiration from our proposed legislation to eradicate unhealthy habitat. It provides for a 10-year eradication plan, financed by the re-establishment of a minimum rent tax. This is a major issue and an absolute urgency because, in many ways, lives are at stake. In the constituency of my colleague Stéphane Peu, in Saint-Denis, no less than twenty-five people died in twelve years due to fires or collapses of buildings, not to mention the hundreds of children and adults who suffer from health problems – Saturnism, respiratory or skin diseases, eating disorders – related to their living conditions. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] The right to housing is neither a slogan nor a commodity; it is a fundamental right and a basic commodity. A few years ago, at a time not so far away, the President of the Republic, then a candidate, spoke of a revolution. Frankly, we're not asking you so much! However, while our country has 300,000 homeless people and is going through a crisis whose shock wave we still don't measure – some are talking about a time bomb – we ask you to at least re-examine your housing policy and even, in many ways, reinvent it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u133	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u134	Mrs Stéphanie Do has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u135	Colleagues, it is a pleasure for me to meet you for this week of monitoring the action of the Government. In my capacity as draftsman of the opinion on the housing budget, and on behalf of the La République group on the move, I can assure you that the appropriations for housing have increased every year over the past four years. This year, more than ever, housing has been one of the priorities of the Government and the National Assembly. How could it have been otherwise when we were confined for part of the year in our homes? How can we not make it a priority when hundreds of thousands of homeless French people were facing the health crisis? How can we remain inactive when tens of thousands of construction sites were left at a standstill during the first confinement? In the face of this historic crisis, I am pleased that we have been able to work together on many measures essential to the good health of housing in France throughout the past year. I will focus on returning to this joint work of the Government and national representation. This year, the flagship housing scheme was the recovery plan, which supports and revitalizes the construction and building sector, which was halted during the first confinement. However, we can do more to support entrepreneurs and construction. In particular, the crisis showed that the issuance of building permits was too tedious and too long; The procedure is a waste of time for entrepreneurs, and as a result potential construction sites are never created. That is why I call for us to work together to simplify and accelerate the dematerialisation of this process. The unprecedented ecological dimension of the recovery plan is reflected in the housing sector, since €6.7 billion of additional budgetary appropriations will be allocated to the energy renovation of buildings over the next two years. This is an important step forward for housing and ecology, but I stress that it is also social progress, since this renovation tends to improve living conditions and increase the purchasing power of the French. Let us briefly look at the major measures that have led to the pace of public housing policy over the past year. I would like to commend the Government's efforts to protect homeless persons during the health crisis. In 2020, more than 200,000 people were accommodated daily during the crisis and continue to be accommodated. Throughout the crisis, the Government, together with the National Fund for Family Allowances (CNAF), has pursued a particularly proactive policy of maintaining rights to APLs for beneficiaries. This year also saw the completion of the real-time APL reform, which I proposed in my first 2017 opinion report and which was launched in 2018. Aid is now more adapted to the realities of the lives of the beneficiaries. The main measure of the recovery plan for households is the extension and strengthening of MaPrimeRénov' on 1 January 2021, the most important aid for energy renovation for individuals. In addition, the "pumps" to insulation and heating were extended until the end of next year. The Government has also created a new boost to support the replacement of oil boilers and the overall renovation of condominiums. In discussions on the 2021 finance bill, both the Government and the deputies proposed amendments to strengthen social ownership. The finance law for 2021 extends the Pinel scheme and zero-rate loans – PTZ – which I am pleased to see, because I had tabled amendments to this effect. It also provides for an increase in the appropriations which will make it possible to sustain more than 14,000 places in emergency accommodation that you have set up at the end of 2019, and also to create new places of accommodation as part of the "housing first" plan. It is indeed an essential corollary to help the homeless and to develop durable solutions. In this new year, I would like to direct the debate by drawing your attention to several themes. In the first place, housing must always be supported, because the crisis is not over. I would like to stress the importance of the social housing sector. I welcome the action taken by the Deputy Minister, particularly with regard to unpaid payments, and encourage her to continue her support effort. Indeed, there is still work and we can go further. As part of the ELAN law, adopted in 2018, my colleagues and I had made proposals to optimize the occupancy of social housing by fluidizing the allocation. This dynamic must be pursued and procedures simplified to maximize park occupancy.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u136	Thank you.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u137	Finally, the Government announced that it would be harder with mayors who did not meet the 25 per cent quota for social housing. I welcome this and encourage her to work with the mayors.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u138	Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u139	Housing figures are not good, and actors are concerned, while housing should be one of the axes of the recovery plan. I pulled the alarm bell already last autumn, in vain so far. We are moving towards a major construction crisis: we are going to build, in 2021, cheaper and more expensive, down to government promises. You speak almost exclusively of renovation, as if it were sufficient. Of course, we must renovate and we are far behind the objective announced by the President of the Republic. That said, the ageing of the population and the phenomenon of de-habitation increase the need for housing. We need to produce new housing with a constant population. Are your measures, particularly the one set out in the 2021 Finance Act, up to date and will they allow for a real revival of new housing bookings in our country? I strongly doubt this because the extension of the PTZ and Pinel devices cannot be enough to achieve the recovery if necessary. Are you ready, Madam Deputy Minister, to take strong action this spring, such as the creation of a transitional tax credit to the first accession in the nine, which can be combined with the PTZ? This would allow some 30 thousand additional operations. Construction costs remain high. The entire construction industry asks you to postpone environmental regulations 2020 – RE 2020. Are you going to hear that call? In the absence of a shared multi-criteria impact assessment, the estimated cost of RE 2020 remains to be estimated. You could also accompany this regulation with an additional tax credit or increase the Pinel scheme for homes labeled RE 2020 by, for example, increasing the tax reduction rate from 18% to 27%. Madam Minister Delegate, you have initiated a consultation on Housing Action, in order to establish its contribution to the France Recovery Plan. This should allow new funding to be made available to support the improvement and development of housing supply. Housing Action interventions must be continued and encouraged. Projects under the Action coeur de ville programme are funded both for social enterprises for housing – ESH – and for public housing offices – OPH. Voluntary investment plans, the PIVs, for demolitions outside the National Agency for Urban Renewal – ANRU – benefit both the OPH and the ESH. On the other hand, only some Housing Action ESH receive, in addition to these financings, significant recapitalisations from Housing Action which, let us recall, collects the tax. Is this not a risk of distortion of competition? Can you guarantee our territories that the proposed reform will benefit all stakeholders, with mechanisms that will guarantee equal treatment for all HLM families – ESH, as well as OPH – and equitable access to tax-based resources? The territorial issue is very important. What is your ambition in terms of spatial planning? Are our so-called relaxed territories also entitled to a future, new constructions, state aid for accession and rental investment? The housing crisis is much stronger in the relaxed territories because state aid is less: ineligibility to the Pinel, the PTZ quota divided by two for 95% of the French territory. However, the cost of land is low and the quality of life is very significant and better suited to the health crisis. Many French people dream of living in a house, but you seem to condemn this model by making an almost automatic link, in your interventions, between the construction of individual houses in a relaxed area and the artificialization. Let me tell you that you're wrong. I can give you many examples, in my constituency, of places where individual houses have been built with a density that is sometimes higher than islets of collective housing, where the construction of individual houses has taken place on brownfields or industrial wasteland. A virtuous model is possible. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Deputy Minister, the Republican Group has proposals to relaunch construction, to give a future to all territories, to meet the expectations of the French. Are you ready not only to listen to them today, but above all to take them back tomorrow to your account to ensure at last a real revival of housing production in France?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u140	Mr Fabien Lainé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u141	On behalf of the Group of the European Democratic Movement and Related Democrats, I would like to thank our colleagues in the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left for raising this important issue in the House today. We are in a comparable moment, all proportions kept, in the 1930s in America: the choices we make today will draw the future of our country. Moreover, it is the ambition of the recovery plan which, as the President of the Republic has said, aims to build France by 2030. In this context, real estate policy is essential. The housing and construction sectors are by nature structuring for our cities, our heritage and our economy. In addition, housing remains the first item of expenditure of French households. The crisis that we are going through and the recovery plan that responds to it are an opportunity to massify the policies that have been pursued since the beginning of the quinquennium. Thus, €7.5 billion will be allocated to the construction sector alone. At the same time, this structuring policy must respond to the economic and ecological problems before us. Indeed, we need to build more and control costs while limiting urban sprawl and improving the quality of housing. The first observation is simple: we are not building enough. 500,000 housing units would have to be built per year; Today, however, we only build 400,000, and still, the best years. This leads to a high level of tension in the real estate market, which primarily affects the most fragile, the 4 million unhoused. The Government responded to the crisis through emergency measures, including the opening of 21,000 shelters and the extension of the winter truce of rental evictions. Thank you, Madam Deputy Minister. The lack of housing also affects the middle classes massively. Many French people are being pushed to live further and further away from their workplace, with negative economic, social and environmental consequences. This model is no longer sustainable in 2021. The problem persists despite important means: our European neighbours spend less and build more. The policy pursued for more than 30 years, which is based on aid to stone, must be called into question. The tax systems have been chained from Perissol to Pinel; We spend EUR 1.7 billion a year, 80% of which benefits the 10 % of the richest households, without responding to the problems. In addition, these schemes often represent a boon effect that would affect up to 85% of beneficiaries. We have developed a real addiction to these tax systems. It should be noted that the annual cost for public finances of a housing of EUR 190000 benefiting from a Pinel advantage is three times higher than that of a housing financed by a social rental loan – PLS. In addition, tax systems are massively subsidizing the urban sprawl that we have to fight. It is essential to refocus the PTZ and the Pinel system on our spatial planning priorities: they must be more focused in space and time. Finally, these devices must be used as real planning tools, with fine and territorialized pilotage, relying on local elected representatives. On this subject, can you tell us about the experience of the Breton Pinel? The other problem that it is essential to deal with in order to meet the needs is the control of land costs. I would like here to pay tribute to the work of my colleague Jean-Luc Lagleize; Some of the proposals in his report, such as the strengthening of solidarity land tenure bodies, should be incorporated into the so-called 4D bill – decentralization, deconcentration, differentiation and decomplexation. Our group also welcomes the provisions on land and housing observatories in tense areas. These tools will make it possible to respond intelligently to what must be a top priority: the fight against urban sprawl. Indeed, we must go beyond an obsolete urban development model. We therefore welcome the creation of the EUR 300 million fund for recycling urban and industrial wasteland, which we proposed. We also welcome the €350 million scheme to encourage mayors to limit artificialisation and urban sprawl. The other major challenge will be to build more environmentally efficient housing. Our group supports the Government's strong efforts in this regard. Nevertheless, I would like to alert you to the industry's concern about the coming into force of the RE 2020 standards, scheduled for next summer. Professionals need to be reassured about the change in the life cycle calculation rule from the "positive energy buildings and carbon reduction" label – E+C – and about the additional costs of these new provisions. Finally, we welcome the mobilisation of EUR 2 billion to strengthen energy renewal, the MaPrimeRenov' scheme and the simplification of eligibility criteria, as well as the creation of the special allocation of EUR 500 million for the renovation of the social housing stock. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group]] The Group of the European People's Party and allied Democrats therefore reiterates its support for the Government's housing policy and thanks you, Madam Minister, for your answers to our questions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u142	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u143	Since 2017, the Socialist and Related Group has alerted you to the negative consequences of your policy for the housing sector in general and social housing in particular. The 2019 housing account published by your ministry is an edifying one: if housing expenditures increase in 2019, it does not necessarily have to be seen as a positive sign. In fact, current expenditure on rents and water and electricity bills contributes more to the increase in total expenditure – 1.7% – than investment expenditure. Housing continues to account for more than 26% of household expenditure; It's a real problem. In recent years, borrower owners have been able to benefit from the most favourable rates since the Thirty Glorious. At the same time, the average length of borrowing increased by one and a half years to almost twenty-one years of repayment. At the other end of the spectrum, on the other hand, the amount of housing aid has been at its lowest level since 2008 – €38.5 billion – and it has further deteriorated by 10.4% since 2016. Let me ask myself about your reforms that you say "progress"! Your choices are all the more harmful as we prepare to face a deterioration in the economic and social situation of households due to the consequences of the covid -19 epidemic. When I looked at the 2021 finance bill, I was alerting you to the inadequate budgeting of LPAs, because of this situation, and to the stalling of the production of social housing, far below the needs of our fellow citizens. Here too, your ministry's figures speak for themselves: in 2017, 124,000 new social housing units; in 2018, 113000; in 2019, 109000. As for 2020, given the context, we can fear further degradation. In Île-de-France, while demand is growing, only 72000 of the 720,000 social housing applicants, or 10%, were able to enter the social park in 2019, representing a theoretical waiting period of ten years. Where's your so-called offer shock? The same applies to the number of building permits issued in the last 12 months: 499000 upon the entry into office of the President of the Republic; 429000 on the eve of the first confinement; 389000 at the end of 2020. The same applies to direct government support to private investors: 13.6% in 2017, 10.4% in 2019. It is necessary to go back to 2004 to return to such a low level. Again, this drop in housing production will only have the effect of increasing market prices and increasing difficulties for our citizens. To compensate for the failure of your other housing choices, you still have the field of energetic renovation. We welcome the creation of the MaPrimeRénov' scheme and its success, but we regret again that it took two years before you responded to our request for an aid mechanism open to all – occupants as donors, modest households as well as more affluent – and to the reduced administrative burden. In addition, we deplore the adoption of a cutting-off renovation strategy, while only a comprehensive and efficient approach to housing renovation can – provided of course that we put the means into it – allow us to achieve carbon neutrality in 2050, as provided for in the Energy and Climate Act. Madam Deputy Minister, we are at a key point in the quinquennium: our economy needs an exceptional rebound, and housing is one of the main drivers. I invite you to draw on our proposal for a law on the creation of a climate premium and the fight against energy insecurity, which provides for measures that will remove all obstacles to the start of work: support for families, a comprehensive and efficient renovation of housing, simplicity by a system of flat-rate subsidies and remains at the expense of the transfer of the property – sale or succession. [[Applause on the SOC and GDR benches]] What additional measures do you intend to take to stimulate the production of housing, especially social and affordable housing – I stress this last point, because the SLP rarely meets the needs of the metropolises? What measures do you intend to take to strengthen the ambition of the MaPrimeRenov scheme in order to achieve the objectives defined by your majority in the Energy and Climate Act?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u144	Mr Pierre-Yves Bournazel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u145	Today we are debating housing policy – a matter of great concern to our citizens, especially in the health and economic context of our country. The health crisis and the various confinements exacerbated the housing difficulties of the French. We measure all these economic, health and psychological sufferings. The mobilization of all actors in the housing sector has been successful, but the crisis will be long and its effects will remain to come. Beyond the urgency that concerns us, this debate is also an opportunity to take stock of housing policy since the beginning of the quinquennium. Let us note the progress made and the actions taken to combat homelessness. Two years after the adoption of the ELAN law, we have improved the fight against sleep merchants by strengthening the criminal sanctions against them. The first sanctions are now being applied. Thanks to the newly created arrangements, it is now possible to secure the confiscation of the property of those who are guilty of the offence of subjecting themselves to accommodation conditions incompatible with human dignity. This is the result of a trans-party work, since my colleague Stéphane Peu and I had defended this draft by way of an amendment, which was voted on by all. The economic and health crisis confronts us with new housing problems. Containment has exacerbated, as I said, the difficulties associated with mal-housing – small areas, over-indebtedness, energy insecurity, overpopulation. In particular, I would like to highlight the many difficulties faced by young people, students, apprentices and young workers, who are immersed in very precarious situations and are suffering from the crisis at full speed, since they can no longer rely on seasonal work or a student job to pay their rent. The Government's decision to provide exceptional housing assistance of 150 euros to scholarship students and young people benefiting from LPAs is excellent news. We support this measure. We must continue to do so. These difficulties also concern businesses and traders who have been forced to close their establishments for several months. The Government has deployed unprecedented aid to support them: the Solidarity Fund and the EMPs have added a tax credit to donors who renounce a month's rent due from companies with less than 5000 employees closed administratively or belonging to the hotel, coffee or catering sector. This is a collective effort of solidarity, to which everyone must take their part. In the face of a continuing crisis and a more pressing urgency, I believe that we can reflect on new solutions and partnerships between the state and local authorities. Cities, departments and regions can also support initiatives. For example, I proposed that the city of Paris create a rent guarantee fund, which would be abounded by the state. In a city where housing is particularly expensive, the situation has become inextricable for many inhabitants. It is therefore a question of protecting the most precarious while preserving the rights of the owners. The Seine-Saint-Denis department has already created an exceptional emergency fund to avoid the risk of the rental debt of a part of the population. Paris and other French communities can draw on this solution. How could the State further encourage and support local initiatives? I stress that housing is a powerful lever for reviving and transforming our country. This is one of the sectors most strongly supported by the Government. It is thus almost €7 billion that is spent on energy renewal under the recovery plan, of which an additional 2 billion in the financial years 2021-2022 for the MaPrimeRenov' scheme. The new version of this system, expanded and open to all owners, has been available since this week. An important step is thus taken in the massification of the energy renovation of private housing. This is a considerable effort to support our citizens in an ecological approach that is accessible to all, which must enable us – it is essential – to achieve our objectives of reducing greenhouse gas emissions and combating energy insecurity, by helping many French people save energy. The future bill to enshrine the proposals of the Citizen's Climate Convention will allow us to go even further. This will allow us to make further progress on the issue of thermal colanders and their progressive end. The Government's efforts in that regard had been decisive. In a very difficult health and economic context, we can only welcome the emphasis placed on the revival of the housing sector – a revival that will promote ecology by making it accessible to all, without forgetting, of course, the social acquisition of property, which is important to us.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u146	Please conclude, Mr. Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u147	I conclude: Madam Deputy Minister, you will be able to count on the Action Together Group to support your work and efforts in this area.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u148	Mr Guy Bricout has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u149	As we face an unprecedented health, economic and human crisis, the issue of housing, a key sector of our society, needs to be addressed with a special focus. How, then, do not start my remarks with the increasingly important issue of non-housing? In Paris, as in the major cities in general, new faces of all ages continue to appear and settle on sidewalks and metro stations. Unfortunately, the figures confirm this human catastrophe, since, according to the Fondation Abbé Pierre, the number of homeless people in France has doubled since 2012. The crisis will only reinforce this alarming situation. However, the number of social housing is not as high as it is. Several reasons for this: a rate of rotation which has weakened considerably in recent years and a system which has been engulfed; an increase in the cost of housing; municipalities that do not comply with the quotas imposed since the SRU law; municipal elections and a health crisis that have slowed down new investments. Of course, we are aware that the Government does not remain inactive in the face of this situation, as evidenced by the latest finance law, which emphasizes, inter alia, support for emergency accommodation. What we need, however, is a long-term policy, that is, a sound policy based on shared visions and sustainable arrangements. I therefore admit that members of the IDU and independent group are wondering about your choices and methods, which do not seem to clarify the future of social housing. I am thinking of the contemporaneity of the APLs, which took place too late, especially since the savings achieved might be limited due to the crisis, but also to the new 1 billion euro levy imposed on Action Logement in 2021 to finance the APLs – or how to undermine the major player in social housing in France! – and in your way of threatening financial and administrative sanctions local elected officials who do not respect social housing quotas. Is this stiffening opportune? Don't you think that there is an urgent need to reconnect the dialogue with the Carencées communes and to put all the actors around the table? The IDU and independent group takes this opportunity to remind you of the importance we attach to the decentralization of housing policy. How do you intend to work in this direction? I now turn to the question of mal-housing. Here too, the task is enormous: close to one in five dwellings, and half of the rental units, can be considered thermal colanders. Now, who are those who live in the most energy-efficient housing? They are the most precarious of our fellow citizens, who once again suffer a double penalty! Nor does the measures taken seem sufficient to compensate for the backlog of energy renovations: there is still a gulf between the experts' estimates and the funds deployed. For example, according to the Renovation! initiative, €3.2 billion per year would have to be spent on the renovation of the thermal colanders alone for 20 years to achieve our objectives. However, you are only planning, as part of the recovery plan – for two years – €2 billion to help individuals renovate their homes and €500 million for the heavy renovation of social housing. In addition, the decree issued this Wednesday that category G housing can no longer be offered for rent as early as 2023 is not intended to reassure us, since it concerns only 4% of thermal coffers. At this rate, energy-efficient housing will not be terminated until 2040, at the earliest. What do we have to understand, when the ambition of the bill resulting from the work of the civic climate convention seems to be to put an end to the rental of these dwellings by 2028? I will turn to the issue of new housing, which is currently very difficult. The instability of the measures in this area represents a long-standing obstacle denounced by the various actors. Why, then, do you advocate simplification while continuing to take everyone short by new measures? I will mention two recent examples: the decision to ban, by the summer of 2021, the construction of new houses equipped with gas boilers and the decree of 11 September last imposing Italian showers in new dwellings. What can we hope for from the national pact for the revival of sustainable construction that you have signed? When will you put an end to a policy that is incompatible with the recovery of the sector?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u150	Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u151	A decent home is the dream of every human being who aspires to flourish. Unfortunately, this dream is inaccessible to many. Madam Deputy Minister, your housing policy is bad. I want to point out that aid for access to housing has decreased by €2 billion between 2018 and 2020. In the 2021 finance bill, the action "Combating unworthy housing" was down 6.23%. The APL scandal will allow the state to achieve a new economy of almost 2 billion euros this year. The simplification of regulations and the reduction of housing quotas for persons with disabilities to 20%, under the ELAN Act, show that you are facilitating private investment, precarising tenants and abandoning social housing. In four years, more than 170,000 dwellings have not come out of the ground: unfortunately, the shock of the offer promised by candidate Macron has not taken place. The Caisse des dépôts et consignations itself forecasts a decline in the production of social housing by 2035, while 2 million households are waiting to obtain one. The situation is even more catastrophic overseas. In La Réunion, for example, the Fondation Abbé Pierre estimates that more than 100,000 people are affected by homelessness. It accounts for almost 30,000 requests for social housing per year, for only 7,000 assignments, or just a quarter of the needs covered. Nearly 20,000 unworthy housing units have been identified. Finally, 700 homeless people had unfortunately been identified in the Territory. I turn to the largely inadequate resources devoted to the thermal renovation and the unequal character of the perimeter of the MaPrimeRenov' device – a premium of 20,000 euros, extended to all the owner-occupiers, landlords and co-owners, although it should have benefited especially the poorest. Unaccommodation has serious health consequences. It causes drama in families because of overcrowding; it is at the origin of school difficulties for children and it undermines social cohesion in the neighbourhoods. Understand that there is an urgent need, Madam Deputy Minister. As a result of the health crisis, many households have seen their incomes decline. After the winter and cyclonic truces, there is a risk of a sharp increase in evictions, which is why the request made by the Fondation Abbé-Pierre to create a fund of 200 million euros in order to absorb this rental debt, in the interest of the tenants as well as the owners, seems to me entirely legitimate. The Minister for Overseas Affairs said and reiterated that funds exist but are not being used. All right. But what has he done to improve the situation? In the face of the urgency of the situation, how does it intend to mobilise all the actors? How can we identify tense areas, particularly in the ultramarine territories, so as to apply the tax on vacant housing and allow the communities concerned, and who so wish, to experiment with the management of rents? Similarly, with regard to the provisions of the Letchimy Act, how can we go further and allow the regularization of land for households in indivision? This would allow them to benefit from different habitat improvement tools that they cannot access today. Let us remember, solving the problem of housing is also part of the economic recovery of our country by giving work to companies and employees. In conclusion, Madam Minister Delegate, are you in favour of a large housing plan, consisting of building for five years annually, 200000 public housing in compliance with ecological standards and 15,000 social housing students; to promote access to housing by establishing, in accordance with the National Housing Confederation's defence, a universal guarantee of rents, through a solidarity fund financed by social donors; to launch a plan for the eradication of unhealthy housing, urban renewal and the construction of social housing by strengthening the sanctions against municipalities with too little social housing; to promote, finally, the return of building guards to the social park, by valuing their role in maintaining the quality of life and the social link?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u152	Mr Jean-Félix Acquaviva has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u153	Some territories are particularly affected by the housing crisis. This is the case, for example, in Corsica, where rents in the private rental stock are among the highest in France, where the number of social housing units is very low and the gulf between the price of real estate and the average income continues to grow. The structural characteristics of our island, the heavy pressure of tourism and real estate speculation largely explain these difficulties. It must be noted, however, that the Government's policy since the beginning of the quinquennium has not helped to remedy this situation. The housing stock is very inadequate in some tense areas. Yet, far from encouraging the revival of construction, budgetary restrictions, passed finance law after finance law, have shaken the confidence of the actors in the sector. The figures speak for themselves: the number of building permits issued has steadily declined to less than 400,000 per year, compared with nearly 500,000 in 2017. The health crisis and municipal elections cannot be held solely responsible. A set of decisions affecting home ownership tools are the cause of these poor results. I am thinking of the abolition of the LPA in 2017 but also of the reduction of the zero-rate loan quota in zones B and C. Similarly, the numerous procrastinations around the Pinel scheme, which was finally extended until 31 December 2022 and renewed for the years 2023 and 2024 with declining tax reduction rates, have helped fuel the sector's distrust. The figures for construction in the social park followed the same dynamic. How could it have been otherwise when you attacked the finances of the HLM organizations? The reduction in the amount of APLs and the reduction in solidarity rent – RLS –, although tempered by the investment pact, thus weighs €1.3 billion on the finances of social donors, not to mention the increase in VAT on the construction of social housing, the rate of which has risen from 5.5% to 10%. The same is true for Housing Action, again with 1 billion euros punctuated in its reserves. If the group's financial situation seems to enable it to bear this levy in the short term, it is likely that in the long term it will damage its capacity to build and finance social and intermediate housing. An illustration of the lack of housing is the rate of rotation in the residential route that has never been so low. It increased from 10.3 per cent in 2011 to probably less than 8 per cent in 2020. This congestion deprives nearly 300,000 homeless people of sustainable housing, the majority of whom are condemned to reside in hotels or homes that are eternally saturated. The recovery plan was a unique opportunity to take up the question of the construction of the new and finally to follow up on the promise of candidate Emmanuel Macron to produce a shock of the offer. To my great regret, you preferred to remain silent on this issue at the risk of exposing us to a long-term shortage of housing. I will be less severe about the energy renovation of buildings, which can bring environmental, economic and social benefits by contributing to the reduction of energy insecurity and the creation of non-relocable jobs. Significant progress has been made since last year with the extension of the MaPrimeRenov'scheme to homeowners, households in the ninth and tenth deciles and condominiums. However, I am more sceptical about the means deployed. The increase in the credits provided for in the recovery plan will barely return to the level of public investment reached in 2018 by the energy transition tax credit. We are also concerned that the players involved in energy renewal will be slow to get in motion for fear of the instability of the aid, with the additional EUR 2 billion planned for only two years. In addition, other important measures remain to be arbitrated. In particular, there is a need to encourage the overall renovation of buildings and to move away from isolated acts of limited efficiency. To this end, it is becoming urgent to define a comprehensive renovation threshold. Let us hope that these issues will be resolved quickly in the context of the bill resulting from the conclusions of the Citizen Climate Convention. However, you can't just rely on energy renovation to ensure everyone has access to decent housing. It is becoming urgent to get housing out of the deadlock and to encourage housing construction through an ambitious policy.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u154	The next speaker is the Minister for Housing.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u155	I would like to begin by thanking the Members of the GDR Group for putting housing policy on the agenda of this House because I share their views on the importance and extremely centrality of this policy. I would like to thank all the speakers who have expressed their feelings and sometimes their concerns on this subject and wish Stéphane Little a good recovery. I would also like to thank the speakers of the majority for their support for the Government's housing policy. If we all know the formula of Pierre Mendès France according to which "governing is choosing", I would like to recall the paraphrase of another of your colleagues, just as illustrious, Henri Grouès, whom we all know under the name of Abbé Pierre, and who said instead: "Governing is first to house his people. » It is true that housing is at the heart of our citizens' concerns. It is, with employment and health, one of the three major pillars that allow everyone to build their lives and their future. This is indeed an eminently political subject. It concerns everyone, meets basic human needs and crystallises different visions of society and living together. My deep will is to put housing in the political debate because it is at the crossroads of our social, economic and environmental policies. I would therefore like to outline to you the three priorities that drive my work at the head of this ministry, a full-function ministry – even though it is attached to the Ministry of Ecological Transition because it represents one of the issues of housing – as these priorities have been developed after in-depth discussions with all stakeholders. My priority is to implement a fairer and more inclusive housing policy. The basis of this policy is the development of an affordable housing supply, primarily for social housing, to which more than 70% of our citizens are eligible. The health crisis and the renewal of municipal executives have made 2020 a disappointing year in terms of construction in general – I will come back – and in terms of social housing in particular, with less than 90,000 social housing approved this year. We need to make up for this delay. I would like to make 2021 and 2022 years of general mobilisation for the construction and approval of social housing by going far beyond the annual target of 110,000 social housing that we have so far set for ourselves. I exchange on this subject with the USH, the Social Housing Union, and with Housing Action. I will quickly take a joint initiative with these structures to catch up with the backlog and restore the social housing we need. In order to achieve this objective, the SRU Act is indispensable. The review of the three-year period 2017-2019 that we have just carried out shows three things: first, this law is a powerful lever for building and rebalancing the supply of social housing. In 20 years, we owe to the SRU law nearly 900000 social housing units. The state knows how to be demanding on its implementation by showing firmness against communities that do not meet the criteria: more than 50% of the municipalities concerned – a record rate – have been declared in deficit. Many municipalities are still far from reaching the target rate. If the overall objective is achieved, it is thanks to the voluntarism of other municipalities. This general mobilization for social housing must therefore be based on the extension beyond 2025 of the objectives and mechanics of the SRU law. We need to ensure that this fundamental lever for access to affordable housing continues to exist. I have asked the SRU committee chaired by an elected representative, in which the social housing bodies sit, but also representatives of different levels of local and regional authorities, to make proposals to me. I would therefore like to reassure you: the dialogue with the elected representatives on this subject is open. This extension will enable ambitious objectives to be achieved while respecting the constraints of elected officials. At the same time, I wish to pursue a more ambitious policy on social mix, particularly in the allocation of social housing, because that is the key to our cohesion and to living together. We need to make the allocation of social housing more fair and to provide a concrete response to the need for access to housing for key workers in the nation: hospital staff and teachers, as well as private actors such as cashiers and garbage collectors. I have asked the National Habitat Council to make proposals on this subject with a view to future legislation. In addition to the existing housing stock, access to just and solidary housing also obviously depends on housing subsidies, the APL, an essential mechanism to help the French to pay their rent. The State will be in charge of financing housing aid in 2021 with a budget of 15.7 billion euros, backed up by an additional 500 million euros in initial finance law. The real-time reform of the LPA has been effective since 1 January. It is a reform of social justice that enables a real modernisation of our social protection system by taking into account in the calculation of aid the latest known incomes at a time when these incomes are falling or are weakened by the health and economic crisis. This fairer and more supportive access to housing also requires improving the relationship between owners and tenants, in particular by preventing evictions. As the health crisis increased the economic fragility of some of our fellow citizens, I set up a rent observatory at the end of last year to assess the extent of the problem. According to the first observations, whether they come from private or social donors, there is no explosion of unpaid rent, but we must remain extremely vigilant and support local solutions, such as those mentioned by some of you. MP Nicolas Demoulin was also commissioned by the Government to make proposals on this subject and more broadly on the prevention of rental evictions. Finally, the fight against unworthy housing must also be continued and strengthened. Since 2017, this fair and supportive housing policy has required an ambitious new plan for our most precarious compatriots: housing first. This plan has made it possible to get more than 150,000 people out of the street or from emergency accommodation since the beginning of the quinquennium to give them access to decent housing. Making housing the starting point for access to rights, health, employment and reintegration, it aims to restore dignity and support the most fragile in society. In this period of health crisis, we are also protecting people in danger. In 2020, we mobilized close to 200,000 emergency accommodation places. I would like to commend the maximum reactivity demonstrated by the state services and associations during the two confinements. My second ministerial priority concerns the renovation of housing, which is experiencing an unprecedented effort. As I said, housing is also an ecological issue. Our country has 4.8 million energy sieves that are very expensive to our compatriots and are sources of carbon emissions. However, the winter period reminds us of course of the issues related to energy insecurity. More broadly, the thermal renovation of buildings is at the heart of our strategy. As part of the recovery plan, the Government mobilized more than €7 billion for energy renewal, including €2 billion for private housing. This represents, for private housing alone, a total annual budget of €2.3 billion, supplemented by some 2 billion energy saving certificates. We have also mobilised EUR 500 million for the social park and EUR 4 billion for public buildings, whether state-owned or local authorities. Assistance to MaPrimeRénov' individuals is now available to all owners – whether they occupy their homes or they are donors, whether they live in a single home or in a condominium – with packages tailored to income levels to help those most in need. In 2020, despite the confinement, 190,000 bonuses were applied for, which is an undeniable success. We set ourselves the target for 2021 to finance between 400,000 and 500,000 new renovations via this device. We must also succeed in massaging the energy renovation of the thermal colanders by moving towards more global renovation and by providing all French people with solutions to accompany and finance the rest. Together with Bruno Le Maire, we have just commissioned Olivier Sichel, Managing Director of the Caisse des dépôts et consignations, to work with all stakeholders in the public and private sectors to design and deploy new offers for the overall renovation of thermal coffers. Promoting sustainable construction and new development models is my third and final priority. So be reassured: I am not only talking about the renovation of buildings, but also about new buildings. I very much acknowledge that we need to build more in France. I want to support the revival of new construction because we need more housing. The figures speak for themselves: for the year 2020, compared to 2019, 20,000 fewer start-ups and 50,000 fewer building permits were issued. To support construction, we need investors and donors. We chose to give them visibility and stability by extending the duration of the two main tax aids in 2021 under the finance law: the zero-rate loan on one side and the Pinel scheme on the other. This does not prevent us from working on the subject of zoning, both by taking stock of the experiment in Brittany and by proposing some adjustments to the margin. In this way, we need private donors, in their job of renting housing, and institutional donors who, fortunately, return to the housing market. To build well and more, we must use land effectively by promoting densification. The Government is mobilizing €650 million, as part of the recovery plan, to act in favour of the use of wasteland and urban densification. On 13 November, together with the associations of local authorities and construction professionals, we signed a pact for the revival of sustainable construction which focuses on two main areas of engagement: simplifying and speeding up urban planning procedures to support construction in 2021 through dematerialisation, and supporting the emergence of sustainable construction projects by promoting sobriety of land and the quality of housing and the living environment. This is a strong political act and the mayors must be at the rendezvous to respond to it, to sign the building permits and to allow the real estate operations to be carried out. Finally, I want us to plan for the long term. The health crisis has led to a pressing demand for quality housing. That is why we are committing a strong decarbonisation of the sector, deploying ambitious environmental building standards through the future RE2020 regulation. Here too, I would like to reassure you: discussions are under way with the various industrial sectors to find a balance between accompanying our carbon trajectory and supporting construction. This strong demand from our fellow citizens has also reinforced the aspiration to the individual house, which is difficult to reconcile with the fight against the artificialisation of the soil. It is possible to overcome this contradiction, which involves reinventing our spatial planning policy and the way in which we live in France in different forms. I have undertaken a work in this direction with all the actors – architects, urban planners, planners, developers, builders – to propose several models. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] At the same time social, economic and ecological, the Government's housing policy gives us enthusiasm and obliges us. She enthusiasms us because it concerns the daily life of the French; It obliges us because their expectations are strong and legitimate. I put all my energy and that of the department's teams to satisfy them every day, and I am now at your disposal to answer your questions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u156	Mrs Karine Lebon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u157	Increasingly, overseas countries are characterized by multiple social, economic and constitutional configurations, and public policies are increasingly marked by the seal of differentiation. In fact, what we will continue to share is the magnitude of expectations and needs. It is therefore a kind of vertigo that the Overseas Ministry is called upon to return, each year, appropriations which have been voted and entered in the LBU, the single budget line, but which are not consumed for lack of start-ups. The return, again this year, of 75 million euros – while the demand for social housing is so great and the unhealthy housing is still a reality for so many of our compatriots – is becoming shocking and prompts us to put an end to this bad series. The main reasons for this under-consumption are identified: deficit in public engineering and built-up land, financial difficulties of the communities, unsuccessful tenders and, in 2018, removal by the Government of the housing grant accession. The 2020-2022 housing plan always aims to build or rehabilitate 10,000 homes in the ultramarine territories each year. But he may have the same mixed result as his predecessor if things remain as they are. I would therefore like to put three questions to you. First of all, is the redeployment of commitment authorizations that have not been followed up to new operations under consideration with a view, for example, to the development of land? It would appear that, apart from the direction of the budget, nothing in the texts opposes it. Secondly, since the higher overseas cost of building materials is re-defining – and can even block projects – the second PLOM – overseas housing plan – has planned to facilitate mutualization solutions in favour of bundled purchases. Has this resolution started to be implemented and is it also incorporating local materials or materials from the regional environment? Finally, the rehabilitation of housing is now a project in itself and must incorporate the new environmental requirements. Shouldn't financial resources be allocated for the structuring of a dedicated sector? The under-consumption of the LBU's credits is not a fatality: in the mid-1980s, Réunion experienced a golden age of social housing.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u158	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u159	In addition, the Government is supporting housing construction and rehabilitation projects through the LBU, which complements tax schemes. The appropriations for 2020 were fully consumed – €215 million in commitment authorisations and €178 million in payment appropriations. There are several reasons for this total consumption: the 2019-2022 Overseas Housing Plan, praised by the Court of Auditors for both the method and its content, has created a strong dynamic. This budget was carefully piloted and the territories were accompanied as closely as possible to their needs. For example, the funds of the Reunion were replenished at the end of the year and, despite the health crisis, the territories remained dynamic. We can congratulate ourselves on that. The level of consumption is increasing in almost all overseas territories and departments. Commitments thus progressed very strongly in the Meeting: mandates increased by €6.7 million, reaching a total of €56.7 million. These increases are very good news. Indeed, meeting the needs of our ultramarine fellow citizens is not so much about the financial means that the state is ready to set up as it is about the ability of the territories to mobilise them. There is indeed a need for contractors for construction companies and communities that plan the development of the action and instruct construction permits. To better accompany them, the LBU increased by 18 million in 2021 to 224 million euros. This action will be complemented by funding from the Recovery Plan over the next two years, since €30 million will be spent on the overseas housing sector.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u160	Mrs Christine Hennion has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u161	Year after year, the need for affordable housing in tense areas is still critical; This is the case in Île-de-France. Voted in 2018, the ELAN Act aims to improve the situation by relaxing legislation, in particular by simplifying planning procedures, increasing the number of operations to revitalize the territories, but also by facilitating the transformation of offices into housing. However, these measures were conceived before the health crisis, which, while being an accelerator of change, also awakens other aspirations among our fellow citizens such as telework – which will settle in our habits – or the demand for green spaces and breathing that emerges in all dense areas. This is the case in my constituency of Hauts-de-Seine, which includes the district of Paris la Défense, where I can only see these two phenomena: on the one hand, thousands of square meters of offices may remain empty; On the other hand, the inhabitants can no longer see their neighbourhood densifying like in the Faubourg de l'Arche, where eleven-storey buildings are still under construction. Madam Minister, my question will be twofold: without calling into question the need for new housing, accessible to all, how can we speed up and simplify, in particular through tax measures, the transformation of offices into housing? Moreover, how can we better take into account the legitimate aspirations of the inhabitants to a better living environment?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u162	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u163	Madam Member, you are right: the health crisis that we are going through leads us to question our ways of life and work. The generalisation of telework and the economic consequences of the crisis will have a lasting impact on the needs of businesses in terms of office space required for the activity. At the same time, our citizens are finding it increasingly difficult to live in very tense areas – this is particularly the case in your Hauts-de-Seine department. This situation is therefore an opportunity to change the scale and accelerate the transformation of offices into housing, a relevant solution to strengthen the supply of housing without artificialising the soil. In 2018, the Ministry of Housing signed a commitment charter with ten major real estate operators that I met at the beginning of February, as well as all the actors – elected, investors, office owners – to take stock, affirm our ambitions and chart prospects. To speed up, we will, on the basis of the tax files, observe the vacancy of the offices in order to better know the potential and enable local actors to mobilize them. For example, 400,000 square metres can be converted in Île-de-France to date, although this figure is not yet reliable and needs to be verified. Finally, to accompany the change of scale, we will simplify and improve the economic model by, for example, facilitating the implementation of the building bonuses provided for by the ELAN law. The latter must be redesigned each time, in each local planning plan. We are going to reverse the burden of proof in the draft law resulting from the citizens' climate convention. As you can see, the Government is strongly mobilized, with the competent public and private actors, to change the scale and make this crisis an opportunity for housing.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u164	Mr Lionel Causse has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u165	A month ago, on 13 December 2020, we celebrated the twenty years of the SRU Act and its Article 55, which sets a target of 20 to 25 per cent of social housing for municipalities with a population of 1500 or more by 2025. On the occasion of this anniversary, the Fondation Abbé Pierre conducted an analysis of the last review of the SRU law for the period 2017-2019. The results are here: it is an effective mechanism, known and praised. Between 2000 and 2019, nearly 870,000 social housing units were built in the so-called deficit municipalities. According to the Foundation's survey, cumulative production targets have increased, with 200,000 social housing units to be produced in three years. As a result, they were achieved overall at 116 per cent, compared with 106 per cent in the period 2015-2017, an increase of 21 per cent between the two periods. The SRU Act thus managed to refocus the production of HLM in the tight areas that had few of them, thus contributing to an increase in the supply of affordable housing with a better distribution in the territory. In most municipalities, this law has been very successful, especially in terms of social mix. In the future, taking into account local and territorial specificities, with a view to differentiation, will pragmatically preserve the momentum of the SRU law – which is coming to an end – while working hand in hand with local elected officials. Minister, can you provide us with your analysis of the SRU Act and its report; What conclusions do you draw at four years from the deadline set for local and regional authorities to achieve the objectives it sets?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u166	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u167	You are right to recall that the SRU Act is twenty years old, and I would like to commend the longevity and relevance of this public policy.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u168	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u169	The results of the application of the provisions of its emblematic article 55 are largely positive since of the 1.8 million social housing units produced from 2001 to 2019, about 900000, or half, were produced in deficit communes under the SRU law and subject to a catch-up obligation. This production would not have taken place without the said law.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u170	Thank you, Jospin!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u171	I would add that half of the 1064 communes now subject to this obligation follow a virtuous path and are expected to reach the target set by Article 55 by 2025. I would like to pay tribute to these mayors and other elected officials who, three years after three years, develop social housing in their communities and catch up. However, some municipalities still lack voluntarism. In view of this, the Government has acted firmly to ensure that the law is fully implemented, particularly in the context of the 2017-2019 triennium, in order to ensure the social mix in cities, a prerequisite for living together, and to allow our citizens with modest resources to live in the commune of their choice. Following the review of the last three years, he gave firm instructions which were followed with effect: more than half of the 550 communes that did not meet the target were declared in deficit, a record rate, with sometimes even the resumption of building permits by the State. Access to affordable housing remains more topical than ever since 70% of French people are eligible for social housing and, unfortunately, the crisis we are going to face will cause even more economic and social hardship to our citizens. In this context, I cannot imagine that the obligation to build social housing ends in 2025, when our country has never needed it so much. That is why I have mandated the SRU National Commission to make proposals on the extension of this law. I want to continue the work carried out in favour of social mix in housing. I therefore very much hope that, on the basis of its proposals and after discussion with the local elected representatives, including of course the mayors, the Government and the majority, will be able to legislate to open up a perspective and maintain the SRU dynamic beyond 2025.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u172	Mrs Nathalie Bassire has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u173	I come back to a subject that is dear to me and on which I still cannot give an answer to the people who are asking me. On the island of La Réunion you can find a studio, a T1 apartment or a T1 bis, with a surface area of 49 square meters for a monthly rent of 419 euros, or even a T2 with a surface area of 64 square meters for a monthly rent of 476 euros. "Beautiful business is much cheaper than in Paris," I will be told. Except for social housing which, as a matter of principle and according to the law in force, is intended to meet the needs of the disadvantaged. However, many Réunions only benefit from the RSA or the minimum old age since, unlike metropolitan departments, 30 per cent of the population is covered by the social minimums of the Family Allowance Fund and 40 per cent lives below the poverty line. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] While the construction and housing code does set the minimum living space, there are no standards that cap the minimum living space to determine the social character of housing. Since rents are fixed, in particular, in proportion to the living space, certain dwellings, even very social, are therefore inaccessible to persons who receive only the social minimums to which they should be destined – as a reminder, the amount of the RSA was fixed at 564.78 euros by the decree of 29 April 2020. As a result, many people find themselves unable to accommodate. In the face of this recurring problem, I would like to know what means you intend to use to help them access housing, in particular by taking into account their resources and the prices charged in the social rental stock, in particular in La Réunion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u174	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u175	This question specific to the overseas countries and territories, particularly in Reunion, will require additional work, outside the Chamber, between our teams. But I can already give you two types of answers. First of all, of course, the beneficiaries of social minima, without taking into account the housing package, are also entitled to housing subsidies, which contribute to their ability to pay their rent. On the other hand, the question you are asking refers to a definition of the target but also to the nature and characteristics of social housing built on ultramarine territories. There is, as you know, a whole range of social housing designated by the method of financing that allowed their construction, from PLAI – integrated rental loans – to the MOST – social utility rental loans – to PLS – social rental loans. I am sure that the existing regulatory and legislative framework does not prevent lower rents from being offered in T1 or T2 than those you quoted, thus avoiding too large a gap between their amount and the level of resources of a household that lives on social minima. This is probably both a question of the category of social housing and of the definition of the economic model itself. In this regard, the number of square metres is an important criterion. For me, a strategic discussion between local authorities and social donors – in which the state can of course participate – must take place so that the characterization of social housing needs takes into account the reality of the economic structure and income of the population in order to avoid an excessive gap between theoretically accessible supply and demand. But, once again, I propose that you work together on this question in order to answer it more precisely.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u176	Mr Martial Saddier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u177	The year 2020 was marked by a health crisis, which soon became a unfortunately unprecedented economic crisis. As far as housing is concerned, after the very large levy made on the resources of the social donors, we have had a period of flotation with regard to the tax arrangements, plus the period of confinement and the endless conduct of the communal and intercommunal elections, which have not allowed the competent structures to function – all this in addition in a context of economic uncertainty. The result is that 15,000 assisted housing units will not have been approved in 2020, and as many housing units will not be built in the coming years for young people and families. The sector fears a half-tone year in 2021 due to the continuation of the pandemic and the economic crisis which, at the very least, do not constitute a very favourable climate for investors. The chance of a timetable also meant that the new environmental regulation RE2020 would be implemented. Such an event is always an important moment, but it is not likely to facilitate new investments. However, housing construction is a very long process: between the decision to produce and delivery, there are two, three, four or even five years. Therefore, like many of my colleagues in the Republicans Group, I fear that in two or three years' time there will be a significant reduction in the number of dwellings delivered – even without taking into account the very binding legislation on land that seems to be envisaged. Do you share the same observation? Our concern is, of course, that a shortage leads to a sharp increase in selling prices per square metre and in the amount of rents. There would then be people, including young people, who could not find housing. At a time when our country is going to need a stimulus plan spread over several years, I would like to remind you that the construction sector is 1.1 million employees and 59,000 apprentices. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Madam Minister Delegate, I would ask you to tell the national representative what measures the Government intends to take to remedy this situation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u178	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u179	First of all, I would like to say that, like you, I am fully aware of the importance of the construction sector in the French economy, both in terms of activity and employment. The assessment we made with its representatives just a few days ago shows that while turnover fell from 10% to 15% despite our efforts, employment was fully maintained in the BTP in 2020 and even increased the use of learning. This is linked to a collective commitment of all stakeholders. As a follow-up, I think everyone has to do their part of the way. The State has made its own since, for the new construction, it has restored fiscal visibility by extending the zero-rate loan, as well as the Pinel aid beyond 2022. Moreover, as I announced in the budget debate, we are working on more favourable arrangements for institutional investors in intermediate housing. It is now the case that projects are submitted by manufacturers or promoters, and that they can be quickly educated by local authorities. In fact, 2020 was a very special year: as you said, Mr.Member, the three-month delay between the two rounds of municipal elections, the inter-municipal elections and the confinement prevented the appraisal of the projects. It is now up to the mayors to do so and to grant the building permits in order to allow the construction sites to be relaunched. The promoters are ready, the buyers are there, including institutional investors. In this connection, I note that the High Council on Financial Stability has provided some oxygen for the granting of real estate loans, particularly for first-time applicants. Projects must now be launched and approved. It was the object of the pact for the revival of sustainable construction that I signed with local community associations and professionals.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u180	Mrs Michèle de Vaucouleurs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u181	The Prime Minister announced last week the creation of a public service "from street to housing", with the aim of sustaining and strengthening the Housing First Plan, adopted in September 2017 and covering the period 2018-2022. While the Abbé Pierre Foundation estimates the number of people without a fixed home to be 300,000, the objective of this plan is to end the continuous creation of housing spaces, currently at 260000, and to produce suitable or very social housing to promote stable housing, before or in conjunction with the resolution of social difficulties. Among various ambitious measures, the plan provided for the annual creation of 40,000 places in very social housing, 10,000 additional places for family pensions in five years and support for rental intermediation. While the Court of Auditors, in its letter of 20 October 2020 addressed to the Prime Minister, mentioned an achievement below expectations, can you inform us of the achievements, over the period 2018-2020, in the three axes mentioned above? What is the result of the call for open interest from 10 September 2020 to 11 December? How many communities have emerged to become accelerated implementation territories of the Housing First Plan? What prospects for housing production do these applications allow us to consider in the next two years? Finally, can you provide an update on the accompanying call for HLM projects and on the use of the €2.9 million envelope made available by DRIHL – Regional and Interdepartmental Directorate of Housing and Housing – and AORIF – the Association of Social Housing Organizations of the Île-de-France region – for the financing of projects in this region?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u182	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u183	As you pointed out, today there are about 300,000 homeless people, the vast majority of whom, probably around 290000, are accommodated, i.e. taken care of every night in general accommodation facilities, in emergency accommodation centres or in centres dedicated to asylum seekers. General accommodation has grown considerably this year: almost 50,000 additional places have been opened since 1 January 2020, an increase in capacity of 25% in one year, and the total figure of 200000 has been exceeded this week. This does not prevent the promotion of the so-called housing policy first, in favour of homeless people. This policy means that we do not satisfy ourselves with a housing solution and that our goal is to ensure that everyone has access to decent housing that will enable him or her to build his or her life. This policy was launched at the end of 2017 and, since the beginning of the 2018 five-year plan, there have been 23,000 open rental intermediation spaces, 4,500 family pension spaces and 32,000 very social housing units that were funded in 2019 as in 2018. We therefore estimate the number of people who have been able to access housing thanks to this policy to be around 150000. While these results are encouraging, they are not enough to drastically reduce the number of homeless people, as the Court of Auditors recently pointed out. It is to improve them that we created, on January 1, the public service "from street to housing". It will allow for simplification of national governance, reform of territorial governance and management of integrated reception and referral services, the ACIS, and reform of the housing stock, with the aim of making accommodation more qualitative as more housing is opened – fewer hotels, fewer emergency accommodation, more integration, more support. Last September, I announced the launch of a new call for expressions of interest. This is a success: thirty applications will be reviewed at a selection committee scheduled for the end of January.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u184	Mrs Laurence Dumont, for the Socialist and Related Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u185	In mid-December, the Director General of the National Habitat Agency, ANAH, assured journalists that energy renovation premiums would be paid before the end of 2020. This statement echoed the growing dissatisfaction of MaPrimeRenov' beneficiaries for months. Throughout the past year, thousands of owners who have started energy renovations have had the worst difficulties in obtaining the payment of this aid, with a delay of up to six months. This situation affects the poorest families financially. Of course, the health crisis associated with covid-19 has made it more difficult to deal with cases, but I cannot imagine that modest families will be pushed to the brink of a financial abyss when they show a willingness to save energy. With almost 170,000 grant applications in 2020, it is clear that the ANAH did not know or could not cope with this influx and meet acceptable payment deadlines. The difficulties in contacting local agencies come back in thousands of testimonies from beneficiaries of MaPrimeRenov'and those mentioning computer bugs and technical anomalies on the application platform are also very numerous. That is why, Madam Deputy Minister, I would like to know how many payments were made in 2020 and what additional human and material resources were put in place in 2021 to avoid last year's situation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u186	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u187	MaPrimeRénov' was launched, as you recalled, on 1 January 2020 and, by the end of the year, 190,000 files had been filed – this is a success. MaPrimeRenov' took over a tax credit: households advanced the money and were reimbursed in the form of a tax credit on average 18 months after the work. Nevertheless, it is true that the ANAH had occasional difficulties in coping with this upsurge at several times in the year. This was the case last summer, first, at a time when many files could not be investigated, preventing the validation of the amount of the premium granted to households before work; Then this fall to face up to the payment. ANAH has put in place a comprehensive action plan to deal with these challenges, strengthening its workforce and working differently with the accounting agency to be able to liquidate and pay premiums. To answer your question about the number of premiums paid: 53,000 files were paid at the end of the year. Of course, not all files filed need to be paid because between the time a file is filed and the payment, after validation, the work must be started. It is therefore quite normal that this figure should be lower than the number of files filed. We estimate the number of cases pending payment to be around 15,000. Of these, some are subject to an "exchange-applicant" – that is, one piece is missing. For example, today I visited a household in the Marne, which had not provided the correct bank identification, with the return of the voucher to allow payment. For the rest, we have a buffer stock – if I may say so – of files to pay for fifteen days. Our aim is therefore to make the payment within 15 days once the files are complete. This effort has made it possible to eliminate the number of pending cases and I believe that we will be able to achieve our goal by 2021.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u188	Mrs Annie Chapelier has the floor for the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u189	This week was marked by the establishment of MaPrimeRenov', extended to the owners. According to several reports, among them that of the Abbé-Pierre Foundation, 3.5 million modest people have been cold for reasons related to energy insecurity and millions of people are suffering the excessive cost of spending in uneconomic energy. In addition to financial difficulties, this situation is also the cause, in most cases, of a deteriorated state of health. Another report, that of the Observatoire national de la précarité, shows that 12 million French people live in thermal coves. The most precarious households are concerned, for which the energy renovation, and this is where the building hurts, is often and unfortunately too complicated and takes on the appearance of puzzles. Although the MaPrimeRenov' scheme is accessible to people in precarious situations, my fear is that these aid measures will be visible. There are still obstacles to energy renewal, both financial and informational, quite simply. Households can in fact ignore the profitability of the thermal renovation of their housing, as the latest note from France Stratégie points out. It is also necessary to make progress in this area by accompanying the French in need and reassure them of the steps to be taken and the financial and ecological gains that they can achieve by transforming their housing. At both the local and national levels, aid schemes have increased in number over the past decade and have lost readability for users. So, Madam Deputy Minister, how do you plan to make energy-renovation assistance for people affected by the "unaccommodation" clearer, more readable and more functional?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u190	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u191	You recalled, and I share your diagnosis, 12 million French people live in thermal colanders – about 4.8 million. This is all the less acceptable because it is often very modest households that occupy them and fail to pay much too high bills. We have just signed, with Barbara Pompili, the first decree that will make the worst thermal colanders indecent and therefore prohibit them from renting as early as January 1, 2023. The draft law on combating climate change and strengthening resilience in the face of its effects, resulting from the work of the citizen climate convention, will aim to ensure that by 2028 all thermal colanders are prohibited from renting. To do this, we must accompany, massif and accelerate the overall renovations of these colanders. Energy renewal has already increased significantly in volume and quality in recent years. In 2019 and 2020, there are more than 2 million construction operations – be it attic insulation, floor insulation, boiler change or overall renovation – often for the benefit of the smallest households. But to go further, we need to improve both aid and support. With regard to support, the aim is to deploy a public service to support energy renewal throughout France, in partnership with the local authorities. We decided more than a year ago to strengthen these windows with the FAIRE network, which informs, advises and supports households. We also need to simplify aid and unify it: this is the mission that we, together with Bruno Le Maire, entrusted to Olivier Sichel, to lead a working group, in the next two months, through which we can imagine the measures to massify the overall renovation of thermal colanders, to reach the number of 400,000 to 500,000 renovations per year over the next few years.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u192	The next speaker is Mr Guy Bricout, for the IDU and independent group.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u193	I would like to recall how the decline in personalized housing assistance has, since 2018, contributed to the deterioration of the HLM caisses, a true model of solidarity with France. This is a loss of nearly EUR 1.5 billion per year that donors have had to compensate for by reducing their rents. This did not fail, as we feared, to translate into a change in the creation of new housing and the rehabilitation of the old one. While our social housing model is, of course, perfectable, there is no justification for fully questioning a system that has proved its worth. This is all the more true since the current crisis is going to blow up the precarious situation. The associations warn us: 3.8 million people are not housed or are very poorly housed; 2 million are waiting for social housing and precarious housing is progressing among young people. In such a context, we find it hard to understand why you are trying to do everything to undermine Housing Action, the former 1% housing. Thus, when considering the last draft of the finance law, you insisted on having a €1.3 billion vote on this key body for social housing in France, which has a fundamental role to play in the recovery. He is also a major player in the dynamics of our territories, through, for example, the city centre action programme. At the same time, you have confirmed your wish – while fortunately renouncing to do so by ordinances – to reform the functioning and governance of Housing Action. I would therefore like to know exactly what progress has been made with regard to this reform in the last two months. How do you drive them? Will they be associated with local and parliamentary representatives? In addition, do you confirm that they will come to fruition next spring and will be the subject of a bill or at least of clauses in a bill that will allow Parliament to examine them, as the Government has committed itself to doing?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u194	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u195	You are asking me both about the balance of social housing financing and Housing Action. On the first point, the investment pact concluded between the Government and the USH, as well as the various compensation measures of the RLS, fully assumed by the Caisse des dépôts et consignations, enabled the latter, in its last assessment, confirmed by the National Agency for the Control of Social Housing, ANCOLS, to show that the social donors have lost nothing of their investment capacity. And if we approved fewer social housing in 2020 than in 2019, it is not because of financial measures but because of the particular situation, due to the health crisis, that we have experienced this year. In any case, I strongly support social housing in general, its renovation, and new construction in social housing in particular. As far as Housing Action is concerned, the levy voted on during the consideration of the 2021 finance bill is sustainable given the accumulated cash flow and the accumulated under-performance of the various housing action expenditure in the previous period. However, I do not want us to make one-off payments, and that is why I support a negotiation with the social partners, since it is a joint body, on two points: how can Housing action be included in the recovery plan to deal with the health, economic and social crisis - it is the subject of an endorsement that we will sign, I hope, with Housing Action in the coming weeks; and how Housing Action can improve its governance and clarify its interventions in relation to public policies in order to be even more effective in the service of housing for employees and French people. If this negotiation leads to legislative measures, of course the latter will be submitted to the Parliament, which will discuss them in substance, in the framework of a finance law if necessary.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u196	The next speaker is Mr Alexis Corbière, for the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u197	In Île-de-France alone, 750,000 people are waiting for social housing. And as many of our fellow Members of Parliament in France may have done, I see it very clearly in my constituency, including Montreuil and Bagnolet: it is on housing that the inhabitants question me the most. What do the local elected officials who sit on the allocation commissions answer them? They all say the same thing: the social park is overloaded and few apartments are released in view of the demand that is exploding. One solution, therefore, is to build, build and build again. For our part, with Jean-Luc Mélenchon, in 2017 we proposed the construction of 200,000 public housing units per year, in accordance with the recommendations of many players in the sector. The regional habitat scheme estimates that the state should issue at least 37,000 licences each year in Île-de-France alone. In 2016, we were almost there with 36,000 licences distributed, but since 2017, this figure has been declining: from 36,000, we have increased to 30,000, then to 28800, 28600 and 21000 in 2020. Will the popular and middle classes still be able to live in Île-de-France in the coming years? Frankly, the question is asked. This collapse of the production of social housing is of course multifactorial but we cannot put everything on the back of the health crisis and the first confinement: the trend began, I said, from the beginning of Emmanuel Macron's mandate. So what to do? What are you doing? We have the impression of a certain impotence, of an action, at least, which is not up to the level. The measures taken at the beginning of the quinquennium have weakened the finances of social donors, who are no longer able to build. The recovery plan does not foresee much. In small towns, be it Neuilly-sur-Seine – a symbolic city – or other towns in chic suburbs, prefects do not use the tools at their disposal to force mayors to build really social housing. As you yourself said, Madam Minister, the economic crisis is going to increase the number of people on the street, who are ill-housed or threatened with expulsion. More than ever, public housing is a necessity for millions of people. What are you going to do to boost the production of social housing and bring it up to demand?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u198	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u199	I repeat, of course, that there is a lack of production of social housing. This is true at the national level, since this year we are going to approve a little less than 90,000 social housing units, when we expected 110,000, and it is true more particularly in Île-de-France, where our objective was to deliver nearly 40,000 amenities, but where we will only finally count 21000 or 22000 – a result that will remain exceptional, I hope. The answer, however, is not to be expected from a single camp, whether it be the state, donors or local elected representatives: it will come from a coordinated action of the three. As far as the SRU law is concerned, you know my firmness on the subject, expressed many times. In the last three-year review, we declared for the first time that more than 50% of the municipalities meeting the criteria were "carencées". In addition, fines have increased and we have taken over building permits in a number of municipalities. The Government thus strongly expresses the need to build social housing. To build, you need funding. From this point of view, donor funding capacity has been restored, and discussions with Housing Action will eventually allow us to explore complementary avenues. But there is also a need for land, building permits and a collective will to promote social mix. I am prepared to commit myself to this and to play my full role, but the donors must also do the same. I am counting on them, especially on the bulk of them. In fact, the discussions started to give itself a proactive objective of construction. But it is also necessary that the elected representatives, the mayors in particular, be at the meeting to clear land and above all to validate construction operations, thus densification, because we need social housing in Île-de-France – on this point, I would like to join you quite well.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u200	Mr Jean-Félix Acquaviva has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u201	Let us once again mention the situation of social housing. We cannot say that the Government has been tender with the HLM organizations. The President of the Republic clearly regards them as "dodus dormants" living from their annuities without investing. According to the President, France is pursuing the worst housing policy in the world and, in order to remedy this, it intends to rely, according to the liberal precepts, on the policy of supply, which has not arrived, which does not happen and which we believe will not happen. It is not enough to relax the rules to build better and faster. As early as 2017, the Government did not go there with its own hands: it punctuated the revenues of HLM organizations by 800 million euros in 2018, 900 million in 2019 and 1.3 billion in 2020, and the same will be true in the following years. However, when we go to the field, to visit residences or meet tenants, it is not the opulence we see, quite the contrary! The result of this drastic puncture is less maintenance, less repair, less habitat improvement and, above all, less new housing. We therefore admit that we do not fully understand the purpose of the operation, whereas the number of households waiting for housing is estimated at 2 million. In addition, there are the additional costs associated with the increase in the VAT rate on the construction of social housing, from 5.5 to 10 %: for a territory like mine, Corsica, where the real estate and land pressure is strong, such a decision is particularly bad because the builders will be all the less motivated to make social housing. Madam Minister Delegate, in the face of the health crisis, which is turning into a violent economic and social crisis, are you thinking about returning to certain guidelines, in collaboration with local authorities, to promote the construction of new social housing?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u202	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u203	I would like to take advantage of your question to point out that the social housing sector, as a service of general economic interest, benefits, and it is natural, from advantageous taxation: reduced rates of VAT, exemptions from property tax on built properties. I have also already mentioned the investment pact for social housing concluded with the HLM sector, which restores the VAT rate to 5.5% for the construction of social housing financed by an integrated rental loan, the acquisition and improvement of housing PLUS and the implementation of projects under the new national urban renewal programme. I confirm that the Government is paying particular attention to ensuring that social donors have the means to produce the social housing that the country needs. The pact also provides for a re-visit clause: we will see at the end of the year whether we should go further. Thanks to the desire to build social donors and the 500 million euros of the recovery plan – which, by financing the heavy renovation of social housing, will ease the financial constraint on the production of new housing – we will, I hope, succeed in meeting the challenge of social housing in France.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u204	Mr Aurélien Taché has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u205	The successive confinements and curfews, so difficult to live for the French, may have had a virtue, that of making us rediscover the importance of housing and of understanding a little better the suffering endured by the ever more numerous, who are deprived of it. New constructions, social housing, number of people on the street: all the signals were already red before the arrival of the covid. Indeed, since the beginning of the quinquennium, housing policy has been neglected, deconsidered, with the Government seeing it only through one prism: that of the savings to be achieved. With few exceptions, the recovery plan is devoted only to the energy renovation of the existing park. The aim is commendable, but it will leave the whole question of the housing crisis. The demand for HLM is in fact constantly increasing, particularly in Île-de-France. In Val-d'Oise, where I am elected, the number of applications increased from 53622 in 2015 to 62333 in 2018, an increase of 16%, while the population of Valdois, at the same time, was only 0.7% per year. The needs are therefore immense; It is essential that we resume the construction of low-cost housing quickly and strongly. You mentioned the figures for 2020: 90,000 housing units under construction, with a target of 110,000. But to meet the needs, 150,000 social housing units would have to be built every year! This was the objective set during the previous quinquennium. At the time, we produced about 135,000 dwellings per year; Since 2017, we have increased to 120000, then to 110000 and finally to 90000. Madam Deputy Minister, what do you intend to do to stop this movement? The SRU law had a real ambition, forcing municipalities to build a minimum quota of social housing. Twenty years after its adoption, more than half of them have not achieved this goal. You have expressed your intention to prolong its effects after 2025; Okay, but where's the text? It was envisaged that this issue would be addressed in the context of the bill to uphold the republican principles, but the articles concerned had been deleted. Later, however, the more recalcitrant mayors are allowed to play the watch, at the expense of the production of social housing in France. The first of the separatisms, I'm sure you'll agree, he's through, he's social. So why is reducing it not really the Government's priority? However, the State has the necessary means: since the law of 24 March 2014, prefects can replace mayors in out-of-law communes to issue town planning permits, but this system is almost never used. Why not apply it automatically when the level of deficiency reaches a threshold revealing a manifest bad will? When, Madam Deputy Minister, are you going to propose to us a text to extend the effects of the SRU law beyond 2025 and to strengthen its application? What are you planning to boost housing production, while in addition to ghettos we are now at risk of seeing the emergence of slums in our country?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u206	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u207	I agree with you on the importance of social housing in the country, both economically and socially: it is the condition of a satisfactory living-together and a real social mix. That is why I propose a political initiative, soon to be translated into a legislative text – I can tell you more in a few weeks – aimed at extending the SRU law, increasing the production of social housing and strengthening respect for social mix when housing is allocated. In order to build this political and legislative initiative, I wanted to consult with all the parties concerned: parliamentarians, elected representatives of the field, associations, construction actors and, of course, social donors. I have therefore asked the chairman of the SRU national commission, Thierry Repentin, to make proposals to me on the application of the law of 13 December 2000 and the renewal of its objectives. I have also asked your colleague Mickaël Nogal, who chairs the National Housing Council, to work on the social mix in general and on how to improve it through the allocation of social housing. I am discussing in parallel with the USH in order to present in the near future more ambitious targets for the production of social housing. As you can see, the Government's ambition is strong, especially since, for the first time in several years, the housing budget is on the rise in 2021. Housing is central, housing is political. I am absolutely convinced of this and you can count on me to defend it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u208	The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u209	The President has received, pursuant to sections L.O. 176 and L.O. 179 of the Electoral Code, a communication from the Minister of the Interior dated 14 January 2021 informing him of the replacement of our late colleague Marielle de Sarnez by Mrs Maud Gatel. I would also like to associate myself with the expressions of sympathy that you have expressed today.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1131.u210	Next sitting, Tuesday, 19 January, at 3 p.m.: Questions to the Government; Tribute of Claude Goasguen; Draft organic law on the election of the President of the Republic. The meeting is adjourned.
