ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u1	The next item is the continuation of the debate on State action towards the most precarious during the health crisis. This afternoon, the Assembly began to hear the speakers inscribed, concluding in the sequence of questions and answers to Mr Alain Ramadier's question. Let me remind you that the length of questions, such as answers, is limited to two minutes, without the right to reply. Mr Alain Ramadier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u2	Madam President, Madam Deputy Minister for Autonomy, ladies and gentlemen, many professionals have been at the forefront of the crisis. They held on despite the risks, fear and exhaustion. We owe them so much. We know that. I want to refer to those who have been mentioned a little less but who, however, have also suffered a lot from the pandemic which still desolates our daily lives: single-parent families. Loss of income, child care during work, problems related to disability, management of courses during telework, closure of schools, crèches and canteens: for single mothers and fathers, the current situation is as precarious as it is causing anxiety. In our country, one in five families is single parents. In 82% of cases, they are single women with children. For many single mothers, the loss of income from the introduction of partial unemployment, a consequence of the health crisis, was catastrophic, as they received only 84 per cent of their net wages to support their families. Within these families, financial problems are compounded by other difficulties, such as unemployment and poverty. Many have had no choice but to use food aid or associations, whose dedication I commend. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] The consequences are dramatic: children from single-parent families have suffered a lot from psychological disorders and sleep problems. The situation of "single parent" is only taken into account in the calculation of shares. That's not enough. Indeed, many single parents will not know tomorrow the return to normal of their professional activity. This is insufficient because the opening of classes is conditioned by the health situation of each establishment. Finally, this is insufficient because, in many cases, maintenance is not paid by the other parent. One-parent families should not be forgotten. How do you intend to help them?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u3	The Deputy Minister for Self-Government has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u4	In 2020, the Government did indeed wish to provide single-parent families with specific support to deal with the urgency of the crisis. We have increased by EUR 100 per dependent child the exceptional solidarity aid paid to the beneficiaries of the RSA and the SSA – a specific solidarity grant – and we have re-aligned the school start-up allowance by EUR 100. More structurally, since the announcement of the national strategy to prevent and combat poverty, the Government has been committed to combating situations of material deprivation affecting single-parent families. In particular, they benefited from the massive increase in the activity premium at the end of 2018, with an increase of 90 euros per month for remuneration at the SMIC – they receive an average of 244 euros. The establishment of the public maintenance service, which has been accessible since January 2021 to all families, whether or not they are victims of unpaid payments, is also a major step forward in the fight against the precariousness of single-parent families. In addition, new means have been devoted to access to child care, without any advance of costs. Access to crèches has been strengthened through the introduction of "mixity" and "territory" bonuses to facilitate access to employment of single parents and to limit spending. A call for projects was launched in April 2020 to implement measures to support parenthood. We wanted to collectively strengthen support for single-parent families in 2021. In December 2020, the Ministry for Gender Equality, Diversity and Equal Opportunities established a working group on the situation of these families. This group is developing an action plan with a set of measures. We have also deployed the measures of the plan. The first 1000 days of the child, some of which are obviously likely to concern single-parent families, for example the development of parental respite offers.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u5	Mr. Pierre Vatin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u6	The situation is exceptional: the effects of the covid-19 on the daily lives of the French are palpable, in particular because of the slowdown in the economy. The financial consequences of job loss are direct. For several months, the French have been far more likely to have to resort to food aid, whether they are isolated students, without part-time employment, temporary workers in closed or jobless enterprises and without compensation from Pôle emploi because they do not meet the usual criteria of compensation. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Therefore, would it not be desirable, while the crisis continues, that the particular situation of each job seeker gives rise to a personalized care, which takes account of his situation in relation to the covid-19? Thus, a trial period terminated due to the health crisis should not lead to a lack of compensation for several months. Secondly, should we not help food aid associations more to respond to the influx, while donations have fallen considerably?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u7	All right! He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u8	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u9	Food insecurity did not arise from this crisis. I've known her for a long time, more than twenty-seven years. Unfortunately, this is a constant in our society, which the health crisis has worsened.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u10	And for four years, nothing has changed!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u11	I tried to fight, sir! It is estimated that more than 7 million people are in food poverty, an increase of 15 to 20% in food aid lines in 2020 compared to 2019. These people know that they can turn to the many associations you have cited, which work daily throughout the country. These associations and the volunteers who commit themselves to them impose the greatest respect, and we thank them all. During this period, the State committed itself to helping the most vulnerable. In 2020, it allocated a budget of more than €290 million to the fight against food insecurity, an increase of 121% over 2019. As you can see, the effort is considerable. We are committed to fighting the food insecurity that affects students. The CROUS – regional centres for academic and academic works – have largely embarked on the creation of food distribution spaces, solidary grocery stores and other devices.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u12	Mr Bruno Fuchs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u13	Sunday evening, I was in Mulhouse with the associations De bon coeur and Communauté solidaire d'Alsace, which bring baskets of meals to the most fragile students. I once again met young people in great psychological and material distress, and a majority of these students were female students. It should be noted that in France, 67% of the new beneficiaries of food aid are women. At the origin of this situation, there is the disappearance of small jobs, caused by the pandemic. Indeed, female students, who very often occupy positions in particularly affected sectors such as tourism or hotels, are the first to lose their jobs. I note that an average student's expenses are 23% higher than that of a student. Would you be in favour of creating specific aids for young women, which would of course be in addition to the existing ones? I am thinking, for example, of taking care of periodic protections. The distress is also psychological: 30% of students had suicidal thoughts, according to a study conducted last November by IPSOS. To remedy this, the Head of State proposed in February the creation of a shrink cheque. It is estimated that 3,000 weekly consultations are supported. This is a lot, but too little to provide a response adapted to the scale of the phenomenon. The fault lies in the realities of the field: not enough psychologists in universities, one for 30,000 students; city psychologists find the cheque unattractive due to administrative burdens; Finally, the shrink check is necessary to see the emergencies, but cannot constitute the management of a whole path of care. Does the Government intend to improve and sustain the system to meet this immense public health challenge?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u14	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u15	It would take much more than two minutes to answer this question, which you will admit is very broad. We have worked extensively on mechanisms to combat women's precariousness, particularly on menstrual precariousness. Rather, I will answer the question of the psychological distress suffered by a large proportion of young people in our country. As we know, the health crisis has caused a major deterioration in their mental health. Last January, nearly one in five young people under 25 years of age reported symptoms of severe depressive disorders – this is considerable. In January 2021, therefore, the Government deployed the psychological accompaniment check, known as the shrink check, to offer all students who feel the need for it a consultation with a psychologist, psychotherapist or psychiatrist. Over 1500 psychologists have volunteered to participate in the scheme throughout the country, and we thank them for that. The aim is to welcome students for a first series of three consultations, once renewable, fully supported by the higher education institution with which psychologists have signed an agreement. This complements the ongoing recruitment of an additional 80 psychologists into university health services. On average, 2300 consultations are conducted each week. The State services are also working to implement new measures for students: the launch of a communication and prevention campaign on mental health issues and the expansion of the first-aid system for mental health in universities, in order to identify distress situations early. You draw attention to the precarization of young people, which the crisis has strengthened. Of course, the Government has not remained insensitive to the financial difficulties they face. We have paid exceptional aid. In addition to the financial support for young graduates in job search, additional grants were paid at the end of January. We are, of course, working to answer these questions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u16	Mr Gérard Leseul has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u17	Ten million poor: this is the dramatic threshold that France crossed in 2020, according to the major charities. Families, isolated people, young people still need food aid to live: 8 million people had to use it this winter, eight times more than in the 1980s. This represents an increase of nearly 3 million people, an increase of 30% between 2019 and 2020. However, the savings rate of French citizens registered in 2020 has also increased by 30%, making it possible to create 160 billion euros of "covid savings" according to the OFCE, the Observatoire français des conjunctures économiques. But, obviously, it is not the same citizens who are involved. The State has taken emergency measures, but the health and economic crisis in the country is deep. It is in fact only a catalyst, the accelerator of a bad spiral installed for years. The Government's work continues to focus on a supply policy for enterprises. The recovery plan announced last September for 2021 concentrates €22 billion in loans to help businesses and lower costs; In proportion, only 0.8% is devoted to the support of the most precarious, this is very insufficient. Esther Duflo pointed out: "The more people are helped, the more they are able to get out of the poverty trap. » For its part, the evaluation committee of the National Poverty Prevention and Control Strategy reviewed the Government's strategy and made recommendations. He stressed several needs: to better define and understand great poverty, to combat the effects on poverty of the covid -19 crisis, to strengthen the fight against non-recourse, to help the poorest young people between the ages of 18 and 24 years, to evaluate the effectiveness of the support as a whole and to speed up the deployment of the housing plan first. For its part, the Socialist and Related Group also made proposals, which were set out this afternoon. Contrary to what President Macron said, runoff does not exist. What social, economic and fiscal equity measures will you apply?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u18	Especially with such a recession!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u19	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u20	To the most vulnerable audiences, we have made a total of more than €3.5 billion of direct support allocated to the financing of exceptional solidarity aid in May, June and October. For example, EUR 880 million was earmarked for exceptional solidarity aid, which was automatically paid on 15 May last to 4.1 million households. In addition, €160 million was allocated in June for €200 to 800,000 young people in difficulty, and €580 million was allocated for the exceptional upgrading of the school start-up allowance. Three additional aids were also paid at the end of November to almost 4.7 million households, for more than 970 million euros: EUR 151 for 2.1 million beneficiary households of the RSA; assistance of EUR 100 per dependent child for all families receiving personalized housing assistance; an aid of 150 euros paid to nearly 600,000 young people under 25 years of age, non-students, beneficiaries of the APL – personalized housing assistance. In addition, €150 was provided to 740,000 scholarship students at the initiative of the Ministry of Higher Education, Research and Innovation. In addition to these figures and subsidies, support schemes for the social and vocational integration of young people are promoted. For example, the "one young person, one solution" system enables young people to provide practical assistance, help them find a project, support them and, above all, help them out of the precarious situation. I have long fought for the social and vocational integration of young people, whatever their profile, whatever their start in life, because each of them can have a solution and a future. Our policy is therefore twofold: to support with aid, and to put in place mechanisms to help get out of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u21	Mr M'jid El Guerrab has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u22	A pack of pasta, a little rice, a can of tuna, a bottle of milk, a few vegetables and a soap: that's why, in 2021, our students are able to wait for hours and hours in the cold, at the end of a long day of work. These baskets distributed by the aid associations are no longer, at this stage, distributions of comfort, but distributions of necessity, which, for many of these young people, represent the only solution to make one meal a day. Since March last, hundreds of thousands of people have fallen below the poverty line. Students are particularly affected by the rise in insecurity and poverty. With the increase in the cost of living and the elimination of almost all student jobs and internships, their standard of living has declined: 33% of them report financial difficulties since the beginning of the health crisis. Thus, the covid-19 pandemic has brought some young people into precariousness, or has degraded already very fragile situations. Some of them even go so far as to give up meals, medical care, or basic purchases, for financial reasons. The distress of the students is terrible, Madam Minister Delegate. To this economic distress is added for some a psychological distress. I mean foreign students, but also French students, whose families are established outside France, who have not seen their loved ones for months and months, sometimes even for more than a year. The exorbitant price of airline tickets and the closing of borders make them suffer terrible loneliness, very often causing them to sink into a depression linked to isolation. Having recently given my support to the association AGORAé, which helps students in difficulty, by distributing them hot meals, I was able to see this reality: a majority of the young people in need are foreign or French students whose families reside abroad.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u23	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u24	It is more than necessary to act for these students: what are you proposing to help them, initially financially, and perhaps, in a second phase, psychologically?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u25	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u26	Unfortunately, food aid did not appear with the health crisis: it has been recurrent and has existed for a very long time. Everyone is trying to bring their stone to the building and improve the conditions for food aid in France. Young people are concerned, old people, and others: we do not discover this phenomenon, and I hope that neither do you. Student precariousness actually increased sharply during the crisis. The images of students you evoke, waiting for hours to enjoy a lunch basket, are shocking. As I said, the Government has released unprecedented sums to combat this precarious situation. We need to do more. We must accompany the students in the long term. The "one young person, one solution" scheme aims to respond to the economic consequences of the health crisis: some have not been able to complete their training, while others are entering the labour market hard hit by the economic crisis. First of all, this scheme seeks to speed up the recruitment of young people, with compensation for costs. We are also developing the apprenticeship in alternation, which is one of the solutions we are trying to find to accompany them, with exceptional aid ranging from 5000 euros to 8000 euros per contract. We are also looking for the creation of 100,000 civic service missions, which are very much in demand, especially for the support of the elderly. They are in addition to the 140,000 missions initially planned.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u27	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u28	We want to support young people who are furthest from employment, by building 300,000 integration routes, including the creation of 50,000 places to guarantee young people in 2021, allowing for follow-up at the same time as a project. Better than a young RSA, we therefore propose a path of integration towards employment, with an allowance of 500 euros per month for young people far from employment. I have no answer to give you at the moment on the policy towards foreigners, which is a different logic.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u29	Mrs Agnes Chill has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u30	I echo some of the difficulties encountered in my constituency, which are similar to the many problems faced by thousands of our fellow citizens during this crisis. A Beauvaisian who bought a commercial fund on October 1, 2020, was forced to stop his business a month later, as a result of the health restrictions. However, it is not eligible for any aid, since it is reserved for businesses which had an activity before 30 September 2020. Resuming a trade fund is a courageous act, a risky bet, which often engages all the economies of those who launch. However, many French people who took this risk at the wrong time found themselves deprived of aid because they had not worked long enough, while having to repay the large sums borrowed for the opening of their trade. In my constituency again, another Isarian resigned from his company after a promise to hire for a more attractive position. When the crisis came, the second company could not hire him. Since he had resigned, he was obviously deprived of unemployment benefits while, of course, credits, taxes, rents and expenses continue to accumulate. Like him, many French people find themselves in what I call administrative black holes: I thus refer to all those who do not enter the boxes, like the two cases I have just mentioned, who suffer the full impact of the crisis, without being eligible for any help. Madam Deputy Minister, what is your department planning to get as many French people out of these black holes as possible? Can we look at a few situations on a case-by-case basis, and allow the people concerned to have access to the aid they need to survive and to restart their activity?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u31	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u32	As regards the calculation of the reference turnover for aid to newly created enterprises, you are aware that the solidarity fund has been gradually extended to newly created enterprises, which is why different periods are taken into account for the calculation of the aid, which must be based on a turnover made by the undertaking. Normally, the date of establishment of a company to be taken into account for the solidarity fund is the date of commencement of activity, mentioned on the declaration form submitted to the company formalities centre. However, by way of exception, where the activity started after the indicated date, the undertaking may take into account the date on which it first met the double condition of having disposed of capital assets, and of having paid wages or earned income. For companies created between 1 February 2020 and 29 February 2020, the reference turnover is that achieved in February 2020, reduced to one month. For companies created between 1 March and 30 September, the reference turnover is a monthly average between 1 July 2020 or, failing that, between the date of establishment of the undertaking and 31 October 2020. For companies established between 1 October 2020 and 31 October 2020, the reference turnover is that achieved in December 2020. By way of derogation, in the case of undertakings which were the subject of a public reception ban in December 2020, turnover shall be reduced, where appropriate, over one month. For undertakings established between 1 November and 31 December, the reference turnover is that achieved in January 2021. As far as the other situation is concerned, if the person has resigned to return to work and his/her promise of employment has been broken, he/she can normally, after four months, with sufficient proof of job search, go to the joint regional bodies, which are in a position to re-qualify the file. I can only encourage you to invite the person concerned to take this step to the joint regional bodies.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u33	Mr Olivier Falorni has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u34	We deplore every day the disastrous consequences of the epidemic of covid -19: those relating to the increase of insecurity and poverty come at the top of our concerns. I will not dwell on the findings, which we know too well: partial unemployment and real unemployment, business failures, networks of solidarity in difficulty. Emergency measures have been put in place. They were needed to help the most affected audiences. But the scale of the crisis obliges us to note that these measures are unfortunately not enough, and will not suffice. From now on, we must anticipate the prolongation of the social crisis beyond the health crisis. The safety nets foreseen during the crisis will disappear, with the risk of an explosion of poverty at the same time, especially since this social crisis is in addition to a poverty against which the Government had committed itself to fighting. However, the committee responsible for evaluating the national poverty reduction strategy launched in 2018 states that of the thirty-five measures announced, only four have been fully implemented – two have been abandoned and the remaining twenty-nine are in a very uneven state of progress. Among the difficulties mentioned by France Stratégie, in charge of this evaluation, is the non-use of rights due to the lack of information and the complexity of the procedures. It is impossible not to think of the sine die postponement of the consultations on the universal income of activity announced in 2018 by the Government, in order to combat the non-recourse. The health crisis should not cause us to lag further behind, but rather encourage us to act faster and harder against insecurity and poverty. What steps do you intend to take to carry out the strategy you have set, and to bring it up to the stakes?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u35	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u36	Thank you for your question, which focuses in particular on the evaluation of the national poverty reduction strategy. For the time being, we have only what I call a progress report on the evaluation committee for the national strategy to prevent and combat poverty that you are referring to. This committee also reports on the difficulties it has encountered due in particular to the "lack of data" and indicators made available to it by France Stratégie. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that there are three presidents of anti-poverty associations on this committee who have a certain orientation, let us say. We wanted it that way and we must take it as such. The work you mention is thus only one of the evaluations of the poverty reduction strategy and its effects; There are others. I am thinking in particular of the publication of INSEE, dated November 2020, which points out that in 2019 the poverty rate decreased by 0.3 percentage points compared to 2018 and that the current income of households increased significantly, i.e. by 3.2%, after an increase of 2.7% in 2018. It is therefore a net increase, supported both by the reduction in social and tax levies and by the dynamism of wages and social benefits. I will also refer to the study by the DREES – Directorate of Research, Studies, Evaluation and Statistics of the Ministry of Health – which highlights the positive impact of public transfers, including social benefits and family allowances, on the annual changes in living standards of the most precarious. Public transfers amortized on average 70% of the annual changes in living standards of working-age people between 2011 and 2016. Moreover, the outbreak of the health crisis has greatly slowed down the deployment of certain measures, such as breakfast at school or social pricing in canteens. They will return, the Government is committed, to their previous trajectory. Other measures already apply: the complementary health solidarity, the "100% health" reform. Finally, you will agree that it is difficult to fight poverty in a year! It will take years for our action to produce all its effects, especially as we act at the root, from an early age.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u37	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u38	This evening we are debating the state's action towards the most precarious during the health crisis. I am not very satisfied with the answer you have just given to Mr Falorni, and I also ask you: what have you done, and what are you going to do, which is finally up to the dramatic social crisis that we are experiencing, up to the 300,000 jobs that have been destroyed in a year? Throughout the year, bars, restaurants, night clubs and places of culture were closed; It can be agreed, even if I think we could have done otherwise. This was a health issue. But what have you done to protect all those who make these places live for all of us? What did you do for the hard-working students who often found their little jobs there? You have not even consented to the poor little opening in favour of the young RSA that we have proposed. And don't tell me about the cosmetic aids you've imagined, food aid or help to return to employment, when there's no more jobs! What have you done for the hundreds of thousands of temporary workers and extras whose income depends on these establishments? Left on the tile, they didn't even have a white year, like intermittents, while the measure would be so simple to put in place. Worse still, you insist on maintaining the reform of unemployment benefits, thus putting in place a pure and simple trap to precariousness. As the whole country stops under your fingers, when the Secours populaire records a 45% increase in its queues, you explain to the most precarious and unemployed that they are guilty of their unemployment, poverty and crisis; and 800,000 of them will lose money, sometimes considerable sums. You don't even seem to be determined to prolong the winter truce, while the most fragile of us have seen this year's nightmare push them towards the precipice. You have just cited poverty rates for 2018 and 2019 of which you are apparently proud; I fear that the figures for 2020 and 2021 are really not the same. At a time when the wealthiest have seen their fortunes increase by 439 per cent in ten years – it is a world record, twice as many as the other countries – you refuse to tax them. What are you going to do to avoid adding new social, therefore human, dramas to the disaster we are experiencing?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u39	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u40	I don't feel concerned about the tone you're using to talk to me; In life, you see, there is what they say and what they do. For my part, I've always done it. So I don't feel at all targeted by your truly caricatural speech, let me tell you.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u41	It's not caricatural!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u42	Oh, yes.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u43	Not at all!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u44	The principle of solidarity has guided the action of this Government, and you do not mind, throughout the health crisis. Intergenerational solidarity, first of all: by limiting the population twice, by taking sometimes very restrictive health measures, you recalled, the Government has made the choice to protect the most vulnerable of the French, i.e. the oldest and those with co-morbidities, those whose risk of developing the disease was very important. We also protect the younger ones, whom the crisis has sometimes turned into precariousness. The Government has mobilized new resources, even if you say otherwise: exceptional aid has been paid to young people in difficulty. All students, whether scholarship holders or non-students, have had access to two meals a day at a price of 1 euro in university restaurants – you say it's not true, I assure you that it exists.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u45	Good thing there's the associations!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u46	The recovery plan, together with the "one young person, one solution" plan, with some EUR 7 billion, will have to improve access to employment for young people who encounter difficulties in their integration. Employment remains the most effective way to prevent a shift in poverty. We also support the most precarious, with precariousness significantly increasing the risk of developing serious forms of the disease. Direct support for almost €3.5 billion has been provided in various forms: financial aid, food aid, emergency accommodation, support for associations working against insecurity. It's not about being proud, Congressman, it's about doing it! I would also point out that millions of masks have been provided to the most vulnerable and to the associations that accompany them. Finally, we support businesses, traders and self-employed people, who have suffered greatly as a result of the health crisis. A massive employment protection plan, worth almost EUR 40 billion, has been put in place, as well as partial activity measures and protective measures for businesses and for millions of workers.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u47	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u48	The covid crisis acted as a catalyst for inequality: the most fragile became even more fragile, and the territories that were already in difficulty are a little more so. Thus, my department, the Seine-Saint-Denis, is the one that pays the greatest social and health cost to the crisis. Unfortunately, this frailty of families is only beginning. But we hardly see the end of the tunnel – I say it with infinite precautions –, hardly regaining some hope, that you will return to measures of weakening, if not amputation, of the social shock absorbers which we have yet measured how indispensable they were. We very much hope that you do not give in to these old reflexes. Change software, reinvent yourself as others do to the United States! Thus, you could have responded to our request to permanently abandon the reform of unemployment insurance; you could have accepted the proposal, put forward on various benches, to introduce an RSA for those under 25, who are particularly affected by this crisis; You could have accepted our proposal to cancel the bank charges for the most disadvantaged households – I am thinking in particular of the overdrafts, which bring back 6.5 billion euros each year to the banks. We all hope that the covid crisis will finally be overcome in the coming months; But the fourth wave is already breaking: it is that of misery. As we look at a bill to extend the state of emergency until 31 October, do you intend to extend until 31 October the winter truce of rental evictions, so that the most difficult households do not suffer a double penalty and that they can benefit from all the assistance that can support them, instead of being put on the street?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u49	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u50	You asked a lot of questions: you talked about your department, about the RSA young people, about the reform of unemployment insurance, and then about the winter truce. It is on this last one that I will answer you, since she concluded your remarks. We extended the winter truce last year, as you know, until July 31, 2020, in order to protect the most vulnerable. We also called on the prefects to focus on prevention and to limit the use of law enforcement assistance in execution operations. Last February, we extended the protection period for occupiers threatened with deportation until 31 May. However, you will agree that these derogations cannot be a permanent substitute for the legislative and constitutional framework of rental relations and property rights. For this reason, the Government has defined the stages of a gradual transition from a state of emergency to a resumption of the application of the rental expulsion procedures during the year 2021. If an expulsion was to take place, it would have to be accompanied by a proposal for rehousing. The State also undertakes to compensate promptly all affected owners for legally eligible amounts, thanks to the donor compensation fund, which will be abounded with €20 million. With regard to social minima, the Government has been leading policies throughout the five-year period to support households most at risk of poverty. Some social benefits have been substantially upgraded; I am thinking of the allowance for disabled adults (AAH), of the minimum old age, of the activity premium above all. The Government has deployed unprecedented means to support the most vulnerable. A further upgrading of the social minimums is therefore not desirable at this time.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u51	Mr Aurélien Taché has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u52	"Whenever one refuses EUR 1 billion for poverty, it is 10 billion that one prepares for the courts, the prisons, the asylums of madmen. This sentence of Abbé Pierre, you certainly know it, and it resonates all the more intensely after more than a year of health, economic and social crisis. Poverty is exploding in our neighbourhoods, in our territories. It strikes with full force and priority the most fragile; the most vulnerable face specific difficulties. Employment integration and safeguard measures have been introduced, and they are necessary, but they are largely insufficient. Contrary to the outdated idea that the Government is trying to convey, and that you have just stated, activity cannot be the only remedy to poverty. Let us stop veiling our face: there will be no work for everyone in the coming months.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u53	Were you not in the majority before?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u54	According to the latest figures, 35% of 18-24 year olds are now looking for jobs – a five-point increase compared to last year; This is also the case for 15% of 25-29 year-olds – an eight-point increase. The priority is therefore to protect. A radical change in paradigm is indispensable: the problem is profound, and ideological in nature, when a government persists in refusing the very principle of an increase in the RSA as its openness to young people and perpetuates the fantasy of the assistanat while more than 8 million French people live in food insecurity. Yes, social assistance costs a "crazy money", but there are billions for large companies, which all too often reward us with tax evasion and social dumping. It is the cohesion of our society that is at stake; Poverty is the root of violence and exclusion, and the difficulties are concentrated in the ghettos that we have allowed to be created and closed to themselves. The first separatism in France is social. It is therefore primarily through a recovery plan that we can combat it, by providing resources for housing, social mix, and youth. But you who know social work well, Madam Minister Delegate, you who know the distress of these social workers who are looking for solutions when they do not have housing to offer, you who know that these young people who can no longer even visit their grandparents in EHPAD have the ball in their stomach when they think about their future, what structuring proposal are you going to make? Are you finally going to decide to increase the RSA and open it to young people from the age of 18? This solution would solve most of the problems I have just mentioned.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u55	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u56	I am a member of a Government that knows what solidarity means, contrary to what you seem to say.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u57	It was the night joke!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u58	Our course of action is to protect all the French in the crisis, no matter what the cost. Faithful to our promises, we have increased the social minimums, such as the AAH and the minimum old age; I have called him back several times.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u59	And who's gonna pay? The SMEs!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u60	Combating poverty means defining a structural strategy to reduce inequalities from childhood onwards; It's not about putting a bandage on a wound every year. We have been implementing this strategy since 2018. We have provided it with EUR 8.5 billion. Its results will obviously have to be evaluated on a generation-wide basis. The fight against poverty is a long-term effort. The Government has also mobilized, in the urgency of the crisis, to meet the most precarious needs: direct support for 3.5 billion euros has been allocated to them. We will continue to respond to the needs of French and French people. You're calling for a young RSA. In our view, it is not by allowing young people between the ages of 18 and 25 to have access to the RSA that you will effectively fight youth poverty, but by creating the conditions for better social and vocational integration. You used to share that philosophy. The Government has therefore embarked on a thorough reform of integration policies; We have set ourselves the objective of creating a genuine public integration service, the State of which will be the guarantor. We will also fight youth poverty by promoting better access to the youth guarantee, which ensures the same level of income, but by providing it with social support. The recovery plan and the "one young person, one solution" plan have made it possible to increase access to employment for young people who find it difficult to integrate into three areas: promoting entry into working life; orient and train 200,000 young people; support young people away from employment by building 300,000 tailor-made integration routes. You see it, we fight, in our own way.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u61	The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u62	The next item is the debate on the situation of companies affected by the covid-19 crisis. The Conference of Presidents decided to organize this debate in two parts: first, we will hear the speakers of the groups, then the Government, and then we will carry out a sequence of questions and answers. Mr Nicolas Forissier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u63	Madam President, Deputy Minister for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises, ladies and gentlemen, we are meeting this evening to discuss a fundamental issue: the situation of our companies, which have been facing a very difficult economic situation for almost 14 months now because of the covid -19 epidemic. While the Government's aid has so far shown some effectiveness – I would like to say so – in allowing many companies to absorb the shock of the crisis, we note, however, that some sectors are unfortunately far more affected than others, such as transport and tourism. SMEs, too, who are our job providers,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u64	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u65	... are very concerned and are severely affected by the health crisis. Despite very strong support from the State, the corporate insolvency rate is still too high. In recent times, there have even been particularly worrying developments in this area, while business failures have remained at an exceptionally low level in the first quarter of 2021. Indeed, their number appeared to be about 32% lower than in the first quarter of 2020, which is understandable: for many of them, they were under infusion. However, the month of March 2021 was marked by an explosion in the number of failures: 79% of the judgements resulted in a direct liquidation of the company concerned – a level never reached in 20 years. Mr Minister Delegate, if the difficulties are increasing now for many of our companies, how many will be threatened by a risk of bankruptcy at the end of the health crisis?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u66	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u67	Many entrepreneurs may find themselves facing an insurmountable situation when the inevitable termination of aid takes place.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u68	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u69	This is true of many traders, employees and managers of TPEs, SMEs and sometimes ETIs – intermediate-sized companies – or of restaurateurs and hoteliers, who are in a very difficult situation. A wave of bankruptcies is to be feared. In this context, it seems to me imperative to relax the various support mechanisms offered to our companies, e.g. by extending the amortisation period of the EMPs – state-guaranteed loans – from five to ten years. Today, we must go further, Minister Delegate, and not be content with the strengthening of state aid schemes. A simple infusion, even over a long period of time, cannot lead to permanent healing. You have to dare! We must dare to redefine relations between the State and companies; dare to define a true industrial strategy; dare to rethink in depth the entrepreneurial dynamics in our country; dare to revive a true spirit of conquest and innovation, which alone will help to restore our economy and bring it to the world. To do this, we must first trust entrepreneurs, and I will take two very recent examples in this regard. Indeed, some of our very important industrial sectors are currently in great difficulty. I am thinking of the subcontracting smelters of our car manufacturers, which are the subject of PSE – job security plans. This is the case of the company Alvance Aluminium Wheels, located near Châteauroux, where 300 jobs are threatened after years of difficulty. Why? Because manufacturers order abroad rather than in France, for very limited price differences.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u70	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u71	Second example: I received earlier, with our colleague Stéphanie Kerbarh, entrepreneurs from all over the country, producing only in France, who have developed a platform of solutions to accompany the crisis. They aim to offer products that allow us to fight covid-19 and other viruses, but without having yet obtained a real response from the state, which gives the feeling of real bureaucratic inertia. I therefore call your attention, Minister Delegate, and I will contact you again on this point, because these entrepreneurs invent and produce in France and simply need to be listened to at the highest level of the state. The health crisis has highlighted our dependence on abroad – I will not talk about masks or medicines again. I stress the need to make bold decisions and produce in France, which requires above all to restore the competitiveness of companies by reducing massively production taxes,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u72	That's already done!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u73	... which are actually taxes against production. As far as the industrial sector is concerned, these taxes are six times higher in France than they are in Germany. Secondly, we must recreate an environment conducive to the emergence of French champions. This means clarifying and including family transmissions of SMEs and ITEs on a long-term basis, a major issue that is still unresolved in our country. In France, the rate of intra-family transmission is 17%, compared with 56% in Germany and 69% in Italy. I conclude this introductory statement by recalling that beyond what we can expect from growth, according to the Government's speech, our action must be based on a control of our public spending. This will require courageous reforms, such as that of our pension system. France is the OECD country – Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development – where the number of hours worked per capita is lowest, with an average of 630 hours per year, compared to 722 in Germany, due to 35 hours and the retirement age. The Government and all of us, collectively, must therefore quickly take major decisions so that the exit from the corporate crisis does not amount to a continuation of the infusion, which cannot be eternal, in other words, in order to avoid very serious difficulties.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u74	Please conclude, Mr. Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u75	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] I would therefore like to make a few points in the introduction of this debate and a call: dare, go far beyond the accompanying measures, and restructure in depth the business environment, particularly with regard to intra-family transmission, the structuring of industrial sectors and support for key enterprises for the territories! Deputy Minister, we expect answers that go further than words and translate into deeds.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u76	Mrs Patricia Lemoine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u77	It is no longer entirely useful to recall that the health crisis has led to an economic crisis of an unprecedented scale since the 1929 crisis. As a first step, economic activity has been reduced to the bare minimum, to the four corners of the globe. Then the epidemic evolved differently from country to country. The restrictive measures have not been the same everywhere, as have the support measures provided by the public authorities. From this point of view, the Government's response was rapid, massive and effective. It must be recognised and valued, while criticisms, sometimes justified, of the functioning of the State rain. Thanks to the development of effective tools and constantly adapted to the constraints encountered on the ground, the purchasing power of the French was preserved and the bankruptcies of companies contained. However, it is very difficult, if not impossible, to approach the situation of companies affected by the crisis in a homogeneous way. Indeed, the crisis did not hit all sectors of the economy in the same way. Thus, the industry is experiencing a much faster rebound than services, still dependent on changes in the health situation. In addition, within each sector, situations must be assessed on a case-by-case and regional basis. As such, and because it is a major international hub, the Franciscan economy, more than any other, has been particularly hit by the pandemic. Because France is the world's leading tourist destination and the second largest foreign investment destination in Europe, the consequences of the pandemic on sectors such as tourism, culture, events, hotels and restaurants and the aviation industry – let us remember that Île-de-France is Europe's first aviation region – are dramatic. I also have a thought for the professionals of the night world, because the health situation should not allow a rapid reopening of discotheques.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u78	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u79	Poor Christophe Castaner!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u80	In contrast, the digital, information and communication sectors have been able to resist and sometimes draw their pins from the game. Another difficulty in analysing the situation of enterprises is the impossibility of obtaining a precise photograph of the financial situation of each of them. At the macro level, the data we have at the moment are appreciated. On average, over the year 2020, the margin rate of non-financial corporations fell by four points, of which two points were directly attributable to the crisis. The margin rate thus stood at 29.3% in 2020, the lowest level since 1985. The net debt of non-financial corporations increased by only EUR 17 billion in 2020. This is mainly due to the EUR 132 billion distributed by PGE, which helped to consolidate the cash flow of companies, as much as they increased their gross debt. There is much to bet that this excess debt could penalise investment, which is essential to recovery. In this regard, the challenge is whether the same companies have increased their cash flow and debt to the same extent. I know that the Bank of France and INSEE are carrying out work to estimate the distribution of debt and cash at a more microeconomic level, which will be very useful to us. In any event, support for businesses must not stop at a dry blow, as their situation is still very fragile and will continue to be so for many months or even years. Support will therefore have to continue over time, to take account of a recovery which, unfortunately, can only be gradual. The clear timetable for the gradual reopening of bars, restaurants, cultural venues, shops and sports facilities is welcome. It gives visibility to companies, which will finally be able to anticipate. However, deleveraging and phasing out of aid are obviously the two major short-term challenges to enable businesses to get out of the crisis at best. You will be able to count, Minister Delegate, on the members of the Action Group to help you meet these challenges. I am thinking in particular of the first amending finance bill for 2021, which is expected to be considered in early July, for which we will have concrete proposals to make to you.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u81	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u82	This debate, proposed by our colleagues in the Republican Group, is very important, because we see that the crisis does not affect all economic sectors in a uniform way. While some are hit hard and remain at a standstill, others are beginning to bounce, sometimes progressing faster than before the crisis. The annual "Needs for Work", published today, by Pôle Emploi in collaboration with CREDOC – Research Centre for the Study and Observation of Living Conditions – indicates that services, agriculture and construction should return to recruitment at the end of the crisis, while industry and catering would remain affected. In addition, there is a sizeable effect: smaller companies would hire proportionately more than larger ones. Macroeconomists, after mentioning a curve in the form of V and then of square root, to describe the recovery, now speak of K, with sectors that go back and others continue to fall. This sectoral approach is insufficiently taken into account in the Government's stimulus plan. If EU rules do not allow one sector to be given priority over another in the granting of state aid – they only allow companies to be given priority according to their size – nothing prevents the Government from doing so by building a recovery plan, but this strategy is missing from the first plan you proposed. This may lead to a delay detrimental to recovery, particularly in industry. First of all, it seems to me that the plan suffers from a lack of targeting, which weakens both its effectiveness and its readability. It comprises more than 113 actions covering a wide range of topics, ranging from supporting the development of the hydrogen industry – this is probably the more structured part – to planting 7,000 kilometres of hedges; Hedges are fine, but I doubt how they work out. The plan also lacks actions from A to Z. As such, the example of the electric charging stations is very eloquent: you are planning, not full funding, but an accompaniment of €205 million for 2021, when Germany puts 3 billion on the table, that is 15 times more, to finance a million electric charging stations in conjunction with the automotive industry. Secondly, it seems to me that the plan does not show enough actions in relation to the industrial sovereignty of France and Europe, contrary to the plan in the United States, for example.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u83	That's for sure!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u84	Finally, the plan lacks a workout effect. In my view, recovery must be seen as the ability of the state to create a driving effect for the entire economy and private sector actors. In Chorus, I made a score of EUR 23 billion in loans from the recovery plan for 2021, once the funds from the Caisse des dépôts et consignations had been cut off, and I found that only EUR 10 billion out of 23 financed actions that could contribute to a driving effect. Beyond the amounts themselves, it is imperative to define which industrial infrastructures make it necessary to maintain our industry in France. For example, there are no plans in the recovery plan to finance carbon sinks. But the port of Rotterdam does, and Texas, which has many refineries, is also doing this by saying that by capturing carbon, it is possible to maintain an industry. We know that standards will be increasingly demanding in terms of ecology, and that is quite normal, but we must prepare for it, that is to say, to organize ourselves, especially for French ports. I take this example, but there would be many more. The well-informed media indicate that the Government would consider a second plan. The High Commissioner refers to amounts, but he never mentions objectives or what he hopes of these plans in terms of results. I think it's a mistake. All this means that he doesn't know where he's going. Finally, beyond objectives and amounts, there is a territorial requirement. For now, the allocation of the plan meets the rule: first come, first served. Looking at the very informative scoreboard of the Ministry of Economy, Finance and Recovery, there are large disparities which are not explained solely by the size of the departments. [[Applause on the SOC benches]] For example, in some departments, only one or two industrial projects are supported by the State, while others have nearly fifty. Fifty projects are supported in Haute-Garonne and forty-five in Loire-Atlantique, but only two in Tarn-et-Garonne. The Tarn-et-Garonne is not twenty-five times smaller than the Haute-Garonne! Similarly, some departments had more than a thousand assisted job creations as of April 22, 2021, while others had fewer than a hundred. These disparities will contribute to increased competition between territories. I am one of those who think that it would be better to organise things, i.e. to identify sectors by territory in order to enable everyone to move forward according to their strengths.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u85	Mr Xavier Roseren has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u86	The scale of the health crisis is unprecedented throughout the world, with a decline in global activity of 3.4 per cent unprecedented since the Second World War. The fall in French GDP is 8.2%, the highest since the creation of this indicator in 1946 by INSEE. Since the beginning of the health crisis, the State has been fully mobilized to respond to the health, economic and social emergency. The measures taken by the Government are massive, for example the solidarity fund, State-guaranteed loans and the partial activity scheme. Over time, the State has continuously improved economic aid in the light of developments in the health crisis and upsurges. A recent note from the Bank of France presents the impact of the crisis on the financial situation of businesses and households in 2020. It notes that the crisis has had a massive but very heterogeneous impact on the financial health of companies. The net debt of non-financial corporations is very slightly increasing, by EUR 17 billion in 2020; On the other hand, gross debt increases by EUR 217 billion and cash flow by EUR 200 billion due to EMPs and bank deposits. The progress report of the monitoring committee for the implementation and evaluation of financial support measures for companies facing the covid -19 epidemic, chaired by Benoît Coeuré, which was presented on 21 April 2021, states that while it is "too early to have causal assessments on the impact of emergency measures [on the financial health of companies], we already have elements [...] in the sense of a massive effect of the arrangements on the French economy [...]. First, business failures fell sharply in 2020, falling by 38%, or 31,000, compared to 51000 a year earlier. This trend remains current in the first quarter of 2021. The emergency measures taken by the State have reduced the number of insolvent or failing enterprises. In 2020, the total number of businesses created is up 4% compared to 2019. In addition, the progress report of the Coeuré Committee presents a study aimed at quantifying the impact of support measures on the financial situation of companies. This study shows a limitation of the increase in the share of insolvent enterprises. This share increases by 3 points, when support measures exist, against 8 points without support. Similarly, the share of companies in a situation of illiquidity increases by 8.4 points in the case of support measures, compared with 12 points without support. We are beginning to record the results of state aid to enterprises. The Government now wishes to develop with the social partners a method for setting scenarios for the lifting of health restrictions and finding the right dosage to establish a timetable for the gradual disconnection of aid. After responding to the urgency, we turn to the revival of the country, in order to quickly and sustainably recover the French economy. An exceptional €100 billion recovery plan is being deployed by the Government in three main areas: ecology, competitiveness and cohesion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u87	He's not deployed yet!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u88	This recovery plan represents the road map for the economic, social and ecological reconstruction of our country. I am fully aware and convinced that this is a turning point, and I am pleased that the measures adopted have enabled companies to continue. Nevertheless, I call on the Government to exercise extreme and indispensable vigilance with regard to the lifting of aid to businesses during the post-crisis period. A too brutal lifting of aid would be devastating and would nullify the beneficial effect of State support. I would like to address the case of tourism companies, which have been particularly affected by the crisis. More than 320,000 jobs were destroyed in France in 2020 in the private sector, according to INSEE. On the services side, tourism has suffered particularly in the last twelve months. France lost €89 billion in tourism revenues in 2020 compared to 2019 levels, according to a balance sheet prepared by Atout France. The most affected areas are mountain areas – The president will not contradict me – where the closure of the ski lifts this winter has put the local economy at risk, more than elsewhere. The Government responded by means of a specific support scheme for mountain areas and the emergency was dealt with with with the aid. We are now focusing on the long-term mountain economy. These issues will be addressed in the mountain plan, which will be presented shortly by the Prime Minister. [[Mr. Christophe Blanchet applauds]] One question remains: in the medium term, how will seasonal activities with low cash flow due to the crisis then be able to seize the opportunities to strengthen their investment and innovate? More generally, I would like to know what support is provided for companies in the short term when the aid is lifted.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u89	Mrs Agnes Chill has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u90	Finally, the bosses of French small and medium-sized enterprises seem to see the end of the tunnel: The outlook for economic activity is improving for the majority of them, but not for all. For many, cash flow pressures are lower due to massive government support measures, but, as is well known, many will still remain at the side of the road. Good news, however: According to last February's Bpifrance survey, 55% of SME executives intend to invest this year, a level identical to that observed a year earlier, compared to only 41% at the end of last year. That's so good. In another study published last February, the economists of the insurer Allianz considered that, all companies combined, French companies were those of Europe that had the largest cash flow. That is very good, and we can congratulate ourselves on that. But this situation hides a large number of companies that are still suffering. The situation is very different for SMEs depending on their sector of activity. Alerted by the Fédération française du bâtiment de l'Oise, I would like to take as an example the construction sector which, although it experienced a drop in violent activity of around 15% in 2020, held thanks to the measures of public support quickly decided. Now, the sector needs less government money than a state that protects it. It is currently seriously weakened by a significant increase in the price of materials up to 50% on steel, copper, wood, paint or PVC. This increase is due in particular to the international economic recovery and the political decisions of some countries, such as the United States or China, which are heavily sourced in Europe. More recently, movement is gaining in plastics, polyurethane and polystyrene, as well as more technical equipment with electronic chips and other silicon components. In addition to rising prices, there are now long-lasting supply disruptions for these materials, which will lead to longer production and delivery times for construction sites. Thus, much later and unanticipated, the shock of the pandemic is now manifesting itself in real complications for the companies concerned, which face concrete difficulties in quantifying operations, due to the lack of visibility on delivery times and prices to be applied. In addition, most of the current contracts are signed at firm, non-up-to-date and non-revisable prices and include late payment penalties. Companies will thus bear the exponential rise in the cost of materials on already low margins, with the double penalty of late penalties. Mr. Deputy Minister, will the Government ask public and private order-makers to remain open to requests for negotiation by building companies, in order to allow for non-penalty-free scheduling adjustments as well as the introduction of clauses for updating and revising future contracts? Will the Government make an order identical to that of 25 March 2020 in order to freeze the deadlines in the public order, and defacto the penalties for delay, in order to avoid an economic disaster for these hundreds of thousands of companies? On the one hand, there are many small businesses, which are still under administrative closure and whose main safety net is the solidarity fund, and, on the other hand, very large companies that have expanded their activities, since confinements have offered some of them a de facto monopoly. This is the case for digital companies that have been widely discussed, notably Amazon, which tripled its sales in the third quarter of 2020; Large-scale distribution has also been largely promoted – Carrefour's turnover is up by more than 20% – and there are also pharmaceutical companies such as Sanofi and insurance companies that have seen the rate of disintegration decline in 2020. The International Monetary Fund (IMF) fiscal officer has recently advocated the introduction of an additional tax on businesses to which the covid-19 pandemic has benefited. Minister Delegate, in order to combat the increase in inequalities, do you envisage an exceptional contribution on the surplus profits of these companies in 2020?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u91	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u92	Our debate takes place a few days after the presentation of a timetable for deconfining. Since then, you have created a rosary of announcements for economic actors. Minister Bruno Le Maire has announced "made-to-measure", taking into account each other's circumstances. This announcement – a priori positive as the crisis has not had the same consequences according to the actors and the territories – raises questions. After the brutal and profound shock of the crisis, after the necessary support measures, it is clearly necessary to prepare for the recovery. Beyond the emergency measures, we question the nature of the recovery arrangements, particularly for those companies whose activities are directly linked to tourism and whose cash flow has been dried up. What strategy do you envisage for the destination France to become attractive again, once the international flows have resumed? Another subject is culture. This sector, which supports 1.3 million people, has been shut down for long months. We will ensure that accompanying measures promote the resumption of activity and the gradual reopening of cultural structures to the public. As we know, the reopening of the shops will not remove the difficulties of containment. What help are you planning to make up for the losses of traders? What mechanism to help dispose of unsold stocks? Furthermore, as you pointed out, Minister Delegate, few of the TPEs and SMEs have committed themselves during the first two confinements in a digitization strategy. What are your proposals to encourage these companies to take advantage of new technologies to cope, in particular, with the contraction of demand? In industry, the pharmaceutical, chemical and agri-food sectors have recovered levels of activity close to the pre-crisis period; capacity utilisation rates are relatively high, and prospects for activity are encouraging. On the other hand, in automobiles, aircraft or metallurgy, the future remains bleak, despite specific support plans. Trade tensions and climate change also require these industries to reinvent themselves. In order to support them in these major changes, public support for investment will be crucial. That is why the Freedom and Territory Group to which I belong will be particularly vigilant about the deployment of the Green Pact for Europe. In this regard, we will be following closely the proposal for a carbon tax on Europe's borders. Discontinuation of tourism activities is a problem. In 2020 alone, revenues fell by 34% in France.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u93	It's dramatic!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u94	In Corsica, where tourism is at the heart of the economy, the contraction of demand has had particularly dramatic consequences for the whole activity. I have already had several times the opportunity to draw the Government's attention to the inadaptation of the mechanisms accompanying the specificities of small territories, in particular Corsica. Thus, the Decree of 24 March 2021 introducing aid to compensate for the fixed costs not covered by undertakings whose activity is particularly affected by the covid -19 epidemic refers to an annex to the eligible mountain enterprises. However, this list omits 75% of the Corsican municipalities and excludes the shops that are located there, while Corsica, as a whole, is a mountain island – a good example of inadaptation! What a paradox! Corsica, the territory most affected by the crisis, will be the least assisted by the recovery plan. Thus, the reduction of 20 billion euros in production taxes will only have very limited effects because the measure is in no way adapted to the structure of the island economic fabric – up to 200 Corsican companies will benefit from it, compared to an average of 3000 in metropolitan areas. This feeds my conviction repeatedly: only a policy of differentiation will allow us to take into account what makes the local economic fabric specific and to implement a sustainable revival of our economy. It is by strengthening the economic attractiveness of today's disadvantaged territories that we will be able to encourage the development of the intermediate enterprises and the SMEs that are established. To do so, it is necessary to empower communities to lead a proactive policy. In any event, the Minister Delegate, Corsica, a specific territory as you know, is waiting for appropriate and therefore effective measures of sanitation and recovery.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u95	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u96	Companies are not limited to a list of costs and profits. They are primarily made up of workers who make them live and on which our entire economy is based. What affects them therefore has macroeconomic repercussions and affects society as a whole. In such a crisis situation, the first question to be asked is whether the policy towards enterprises and workers has been the right one. One can at least say – I will be moderate, you will see – that the answer has been insufficient and even, in many respects, wrong. It has not been enough because certain measures, such as partial unemployment, contrary to what you keep repeating, are far from making France the European record in terms of aid. On the contrary, according to the National Productivity Council, we are in the low average of the six major European economies. We do almost half as much as Germany; We are below Great Britain and almost comparable, or slightly below Spain and Italy. This is far from being a glorious record. To benefit from the solidarity fund for small businesses and self-employed people, a long list of requirements had to be met. In addition, the amount was capped and did not correspond to the needs and magnitude of the precariousness created by the crisis. For example, some companies had to meet fairly precise criteria where others were exempt from social or ecological conditionality. Companies, particularly those of CAC 40, have therefore benefited from State support, in addition to the usual aid such as the CICE – a tax credit for competitiveness and employment – through partial unemployment and securitised aid. These companies were able not only to continue to make profits, but also, for some of them, to organize hallucinating social plans that owe everything to capitalist restructuring and nothing to covid-19. At Total and Sanofi, despite all the direct and indirect contributions of the State, nearly 7 billion euros and 4 billion euros respectively were paid to the shareholders. At the same time, these two companies each removed about 1000 jobs in France alone – I thank you for the list of other companies that did the same; Unfortunately, you know as I do, it would be too long. In such a context, it is obvious that we have repeatedly repeated, it would have been necessary to ban dismissals in profit-making companies. This would at least have avoided the current social plans. Many have lost their jobs furiously and absurdly. In addition, temporary workers, intermittents in employment, have found themselves, by force of things, unemployed, at the end of their rights, to the RSA or even without anything at all, because the companies which usually employ them were forced to stop or because their contract did not allow for partial unemployment. On the one hand, there are intermittents, precariouss, to which you would be well inspired – that is what they demand – to grant a white year; On the other hand, there is your constant refusal to tax the ultra-rich correctly. Statistics show that, over ten years, France holds the world record for the increase in the wealth of ultra-rich people – 437 per cent increase, twice as much as in Great Britain, the United States or Germany. However, you continue to refuse to tax the rich, while for the poorest, the situation is complicated. You're protecting profit-taking companies from crisis as the United States unscrupulously tackles them. Many amendments have been proposed to you, and not just to the left of the House, on companies, particularly in the e-commerce sector, which are seeing their turnover explode. In France, we don't like to take the money where it is; CAC 40 companies are not affected, most of which have maintained the payment of the usual dividends while benefiting from State aid. You have seen, like me, the recent figures for these companies: dividends have exploded, they amount to 51 billion euros, 22% more than a year ago. While receiving state aid, these companies have therefore earned dividends as never before as the country sinks into the health, social and ecological crisis. After this overwhelming observation, the question of the future arises and, unfortunately, we do not share your optimism. The two lost years of wealth production will obviously have consequences for the economy. The whole question is who pays the damage? Capital or labour? Will these be the ones to which you propose a reform of pensions and unemployment insurance as well as a reduction in public expenditure? Or will we finally accept in this country to take to the richest, to those who own the capital and to whom you have given gifts in order to promote the revival? As for the reduction of public spending to 3% deficit in 2027, what Mr Le Maire has announced, do you understand that this is the opposite of what needs to be done?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u97	I don't think they understand!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u98	[[Mr. Pierre Dharréville applauds]] We would need massive investments for a large ecological and social fork that companies would benefit from. When you invest in public spending, all companies benefit, as the economy of recent years has shown.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u99	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u100	A total of 51 billion euros: it is the dividend jackpot that will be paid to the shareholders of CAC 40 for 2021, an amount rising by 22% in the midst of a pandemic. According to the note of the Multinational Observatory, published at the end of April, this represents 140% of the profits of these major groups, which means that large companies prefer to burn cash to pay shareholders rather than invest in tomorrow's economy. Is it worth recalling that 100 % of companies have been supported by public money, thanks to aid linked to covid-19, which has been received without social, fiscal or environmental compensation, despite the demands we have made on many occasions? The grey bi thus absorbed by the shareholders is equivalent to half of the recovery plan. The great dynasties of French capitalism – the Bettencourt, Arnault, Pinault – and asset managers like BlackRock, sniff money like white powder. At the same time, the crisis is ravaging: SMEs, small businesses, public services, or the cultural and non-profit sector are sinking; restructuring plans and redundancies are no longer included. As for the slow wick of the shameful reform of unemployment insurance, it will dynamit the daily lives of millions of unemployed. According to DARES – Directorate of Research, Studies and Statistics – more than 30,000 job deletions were programmed as part of job security plans between January and April 2021, three times more than in the same period last year. For example, in the electoral district of Alain Bruneel that I am replacing tonight, a company closes its warehouses to modernize. While managers have benefited from EUR 10 million from PGE, this does not prevent them from dismissing 90 experienced employees. The crisis has a good back.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u101	It's true it's not normal!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u102	"There are companies that use the context of the crisis to carry out restructurings that have little to do with it." This sentence is not mine or a trade unionist, it was pronounced by the Head of State in October 2020. With these few words, the President acknowledges what is obvious: Sanofi, Altice, Danone,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u103	Carrefour! Carrefour!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u104	...groups take advantage of the crisis to boost their results. While some get tired, non-essentials put the key under the door one after the other. Are dividends more essential than culture, Minister Delegate? Only a florist? Just a restaurateur? Just a hairdresser? What can I say about a taxi? Of course, it would be wrong to say that nothing has been done for companies. The extraordinary pandemic that has hit the world has forced the adoption of exceptional measures – I am thinking in particular of the solidarity fund, which allows many traders to survive – but the account is not there, because the market is unable to self-regulate. By signing blank cheques without compensation, the state demonstrates its inability to act to revive the economy. We have heard speeches about the "made in France" and the relocation of the economy, but despite the pandemic, relocations continue. Thus, PSA announces that it will relocate part of its production to Hungary, while Bridgestone closes by leaving more than 800 employees on the tile. I am also thinking of these windshield glassmakers, who have undergone a PES while Renault, which receives public aid in billions, imports from China. It's unthinkable! How can the state let Renault import machinery and goods from the other side of the world, when we have the skills and know-how to produce them here? The reality is that the health crisis has been a new indicator...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u105	Accelerator!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u106	...of the impasse of this race for profit which exhausts nature and sacrifices human beings. A year ago, the President of the Republic – always him! – solemnly declared on television: "Let us at this moment reinvent ourselves, I the first. »
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u107	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u108	He used another project to prepare the next. That in delicate terms these things were said! A year later, the same liberal recipes were highlighted – the CAC 40 once again bailed out by public money, the employees remaining at dockside. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and SOC groups]] In order for the next world to be the world of happy days, it is time to dare: dare to ban dismissals from publicly funded groups, dare to give employees new powers in the company, dare to rely on their intelligence to build the future. Colleagues, Minister Delegate, we are far from it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u109	Mr Jean-Noël Barrot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u110	Yesterday, Monday, 3 May, began the first stage of the breakdown announced last week by the President of the Republic. We all hope that the next few weeks will mark the return to normal social life, with the reopening of terraces, shops, museums, cinemas and theatres on May 19. The gradual lifting of restrictions is a source of hope for our entire economic fabric, hard-pressed by long months of crisis. I would like to commend the reactivity of the Government and the administration, which have designed a formidable anti-bankruptcy and anti-licensing shield that has been protecting our economy and businesses for the past year. Millions of employees were thus able to benefit from the partial activity and maintain their purchasing power. Hundreds of thousands of companies, among the smallest, have benefited from State-guaranteed loans and more than one million self-employed have benefited from the Solidarity Fund. This is how France's entrepreneurial heritage has been preserved. The decisions taken in recent days to ease the conditions for access to the solidarity fund as early as June for hotels, cafes, restaurants, cultural establishments and event companies are once again evidence of the will of the majority and the Government to respond to the plight of the sectors most affected by the economic crisis, and France's stimulus schemes make it possible to envisage a sustainable transformation of our economic and social model.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u111	Oh, good!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u112	However, the crisis is not yet behind us and there are many challenges to restoring the competitiveness of our economy in a sustainable manner. The economic recovery will not be uniform for all sectors throughout the country, and this is the main challenge of a sustainable rebound: to provide responses on measures so that no territory is given. This is the whole meaning of the second phase of the recovery plan announced by the President of the Republic, because the effects of the crisis of the covid-19 are very contrasting across the national territory, with a great variety of situations and inequality within each region, some areas of resilient employment, while others are more tested because of their exposure to the very hard hit sectors. As part of the mission on the territorial economic rebound which was entrusted to me by the Prime Minister and which I am carrying out with the Minister of Economy, Finance and Recovery, I have been able to see that the deployment of the support measures and France Recovery is under way and is moving the lines. In terms of ecological transition, first of all: last week, on the port of Le Havre, I was in front of the coal plant that closed its doors on 31 March 2020, in accordance with the commitments of the President of the Republic. Just opposite – crossing the street, if I may say so – a project in the midst of a boil: that of Siemens Gamesa, the main French industrial site dedicated to renewable energies, which will build offshore wind turbines and, thanks to France's support, will create 750 jobs mainly oriented towards young Havreis far from employment. The same is true in Saint-Avold, Moselle, near Forbach, one of the most fragile territories in our country, where the coal-fired power plant, which also closes, will give way to a hydrogen pole to which our parliamentary colleagues are actively working. In terms of employment, then: in Saint-Doulchard, in the Cher, site of the Michelin group dedicated to the manufacture of aircraft tires, the support of France reinvigoration allowed the site manager to convince the group to invest and maintain the job on site. In Morteau, Madame President, Pequignet Horlogerie, the latest French watchmaking factory, courageously taken over by its employees in 2017, will be able, thanks to France's support, to relocate part of the machining of its precision parts and maintain French know-how. To our companies, which are too often struggling to find labour, partial activity and long-term partial activity will have allowed them to retain their talents, their human resource, which is obviously their first wealth and which will allow them to bounce back quickly once growth returns. In addition, the crisis has led to a new dialogue and cooperation in the territories between local elected representatives, economic actors, social partners and State services, thus participating in the fight against social and territorial divides. In this respect, I am thinking of the Sharing scheme, a labour lending platform created in Lot-et-Garonne under the aegis of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry. This local initiative, launched from the beginning of the health crisis, when the aeronautics subcontractors suffered the shocks of the Boeing 737 Max, in 2019, involved twenty companies and fifty employees, and saved fifteen jobs, aviation engineers going to work in companies in the agri-food industry. I am also thinking of the cross-linking device Passerelles Industries, created by the UIMM – the Union of Metallurgy Industries and Trades – and bringing together ten industrial branches of the Occitanie region, led by France industry Occitanie in collaboration with the region and the DIRECCTE – the regional direction of enterprises, competition, consumption, labour and employment – and in which 300 to 400 companies participate, which has served as support for the loan of labour for fifty people. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group]] In this regard, I am pleased to note that the draft law on post-crisis management, adopted on Wednesday 28 April in the Council of Ministers and now considered by the National Assembly, provides for the extension of the flexibilities of labour lending until 31 October. Nevertheless, it is always more difficult to call for France to be relaunched for small businesses or communities than for large ones, and we must therefore ensure that the impetus given by the recovery leads the whole country towards a sustainable recovery. That is what we invite you to do, Minister Delegate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u113	Thank you twice, Mr. Member. Mr Jean-Louis Thiériot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u114	When you come out of a war, the main thing is not to lose peace. We're going to get out of this crisis. To learn from it, it is never pointless to return to the elders, in this case to the etymology: Crees means both "judgment" and "action". What judgment, for what action? This crisis was an indication of the evaporation of French production. We all have images that haunt us: the masks that must be imported into disaster or the respirators that we no longer know how to produce. The word banished from "sovereignty" has returned to fashion. After happy globalization, here comes the time of pitiful globalization. It is up to us to make it a virtuous globalization, without naivety, based on a strategist state inhabited by economic patriotism. Among the nations of Europe, France has suffered more than others. The share of industry in our GDP, which was roughly the same as it was in Germany and Italy in the 2000s, is now half as large. These poor results were achieved with a public expenditure of 58% of GDP, compared with an average of 48% in the European Union. Triple punishment, therefore: economic inefficiency, taxation and unemployment. Belonging by our genes and our history to the family of free enterprise, not by dogmatism, but because that is where the well-being of all is created, we solemnly invite you, Minister Delegate, to follow these few paths to make French companies their brilliance. Four axes are required: to restore, to liberate, to produce and to conquer. Restore, first of all: today, France suffers at least as much from intra-European competition as from non-European competition. The first is to put our companies at the same level of competitiveness, cost and cost, as their major European competitors. Freeing: No economy has ever prospered without the confidence and freedom of economic agents to develop their talents. Apart from strategic activities, where the hands of the public authorities must not tremble, the great maxim of action must be: as much freedom as possible, as much State as necessary. This freedom must become the thread of the action of the State, of the social relations and of the capitalism that must come, participatory capitalism. Producing in France: it is time to turn your back on the blindness of those who believed that our country could be content with an economy of services and without the know-how of our workers. A country without factories is a declassified country. Mills are the dignity of blue collars and the centre of an ecosystem of service and subcontracting companies. But industrialization is not promoted by decree: it presupposes a favourable environment and the simplification of standards, to avoid suicide by virtue. I have in mind, Minister Delegate, the site of the Total Grandpuits refinery in my constituency: it will close. Total has good green chemistry projects, but to save jobs, Corbion, a Dutch lactide production company, would have to set up its European site there. However, it hesitates because of the norms, the cumbersome procedures and the cumbersome nature of labour law. For these inhabitants of my canton of Nangis and for all the employees of the industry of France, of which they are only the allegory, let us act immediately. To conquer, at last: the French economy has never been as big as it was when it was carried by a great plan, whether it was that of Napoleon III, who wanted to make the country the rival of England, or Charles de Gaulle, who wanted to restore his place in the concert of nations by the brilliance of his achievements. To regain the spirit of conquest, to take European leadership in greentech through a well-thought-out social ecology of market – all of the exciting challenges that can and must mobilize our energies to make common at the time of the crisis exit. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] In Citadelle, Antoine de Saint-Exupéry wrote: "Forgive them to build a tower together, and you will turn them into brothers, but if you want them to hate each other, throw grain away. Act quickly, Minister Delegate, to build the new citadel France.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u115	The next speaker is the Minister for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u116	Since the beginning of this health crisis, two convictions have guided the action of Bruno Le Maire and mine. The first is that the French economy is strong and has a tremendous rebound capacity. This has justified the choice of the President of the Republic of "whatever it costs", in order to protect our companies and employees, and the deployment of a €100 billion recovery plan, of which €30 billion has already been committed. Mrs Rabault, the objective we are aiming at with the recovery plan is to relocate and accompany the transformations. The President of the Republic said this: perhaps there will be a second period of recovery and we will consider, when the time comes, how to go further. We will not give in to the sirens of the alarmists who capitulate and announce the collapse of the French economy. It has a tremendous rebound capacity, as it demonstrated in the first quarter of this year, with growth of 0.4% – compared to reductions of 1.7% in Germany, 0.5% in Spain and 0.4% in Italy. Our second conviction guides the goal that Bruno Le Maire and I have set for several months: any healthy business before the crisis must be ready for recovery, thanks to the support of the state. We are not yet at the end of the road, but I can assure you that the Government will be here to assist the companies, including during a period of recovery. In the face of the deterioration of the health situation in France since the beginning of October, the Government has continuously adapted its action to respond to the situation of enterprises. Over the course of six months, the tourism plan has been expanded several times, now covering seventy-eight sectors listed as S1 and 122 as S1 bis. Thanks to the constant mobilization of elected officials in their territories, we have been able to identify the gaps – these famous "holes in the snowshoe" – and try to remedy them in a very methodical and precise way. With the aid schemes of the Solidarity Fund – of which 94% of the resources have been dedicated to smaller enterprises – state-guaranteed loans to more than 660,000 companies – 95 % of which have less than 20 employees – and social security exemptions and partial unemployment, we have been able to adapt to all the companies affected by the crisis. I am thinking in particular of those in the mountain sector or the thermal establishments, but also of the leisure businesses in the hall, the coaches, the wholesalers of drinks and many others. The diversity of our economic fabric is vast and the Government has been able to best agree with each other's specificities. In particular, our willingness to respond to the needs of economic actors has led us to provide specific responses, for example with regard to the stocks of enterprises in the clothing, footwear, leather goods and sports goods sectors. Indeed, at the end of the winter sales, I had been seized by many traders who had accumulated larger stocks than last year and lacked opportunities to sell them because of the seasonal nature of the products. To remedy this situation, we have announced a flat-rate aid of 80% of the aid received under the solidarity fund in November 2020, which will benefit more than 36000 companies with less than 50 employees, for an average amount of around EUR 6000 per trade. The company will not need to fill out a form. We wanted to make it quick and simple: the payment will be automatically made by the Directorate-General for Public Finance (DGFIP) on 25 May. [[Mr. Christophe Blanchet applauds]] I would also like to take this rostrum back to two subjects on which I had been directly questioned by many parliamentarians. The first concerns multi-service businesses. Many of you had asked me about their problems, which is not easy to solve. We have therefore worked and resulted in a mechanism to help these companies during the crisis by offsetting all or part of the loss of turnover of the closed activity. The second topic, on which we have also had the opportunity to work in the last few weeks, is the transmission of companies. The decree on the arrangements for taking over fixed costs of enterprises which have bought up a commercial fund which has been closed administratively will be signed in the coming days. The institutions concerned will be able to apply for aid as early as June. Ladies and gentlemen, it seems to me that the state has been able to act and react throughout the crisis. Our driving threads have been speed and adaptability to the needs of companies. For example, for the month of March, nearly 400,000 companies have received funds from the Solidarity Fund since the opening of the window on 20 April. In summary, the state has paid more than EUR 2 billion in less than two weeks. I would point out that between 4 and 28 December 2020, more than 500,000 companies had received almost EUR 5 billion from the solidarity fund for the month of November. On this occasion, I would also like to thank the officers of the Public Finance Branch, as well as those of the Enterprise Branch (EDG), both centrally and in the territories, for the daily work they do. This speed is, I believe, supported and recognised by many players in the economy. Benoît Coeuré's interim report thus recalled that measures to support companies were quickly mobilised; the responsiveness of the public authorities and the ease of use of the schemes are generally very favourably assessed. The report also points out that the mechanisms have been adapted and expanded to take account of specific cases. For example, in 2020, there was a decrease of almost 40% in business failures. When business resumes, we will naturally have to look after the solvency of companies and the repayment of their loans, because many of them fear that they will not be able to assume their debts. We will explore how to support them in the long term for the reimbursement of their EMPs. While the President of the Republic has presented a timetable for reopening, I hear the concern of certain sectors that will not be able to resume normal activity as soon as the health restrictions are lifted: I am thinking of the event industry, discotheques or restaurants and hotels dependent on international tourism, particularly in Paris. I confirm that the Government will be at the side of each of these sectors. I would also like to reply to Mrs Chill: the actors in the building – last week CAPEB, the Confederation of Crafts and Small Building Enterprises, and this afternoon the FFB, the French Federation of Buildings – alerted us to the issues that you mentioned. With regard to the cost of materials, their representatives have made proposals to us that we will respond to in the coming days. We analyse the situation sector by sector. This week, Bruno Le Maire and I will receive representatives from a dozen branches involved in the recovery to study what we can do with each of them and meet their expectations. We will extend the solidarity fund in its current form for the month of May, and then adapt it to partially compensate the loss of turnover even when it does not reach 50% of the monthly turnover. This accompanying measure will encourage companies re-opening with a strained gauge to resume their business. For contribution exemptions, we are maintaining the current scheme in May. This mechanism will be maintained as much as necessary for companies subject to administrative closure. Starting in June, it will also evolve to adapt to a context of recovery. The system of partial activity, which is better suited to a period of crisis than recovery, will be adapted to accompany the gradual resumption of activity. Throughout this week, Bruno Le Maire, Élisabeth Borne, Jean-Baptiste Lemoyne and I will consult with all the professionals affected by the crisis, in order to discuss the subject of the protocols for reopening in stages and the aids that will result. Our way of working with elected officials and businesses has always been to listen, analyze and react. At the end of the consultations, we will specify in the next few days the parameters envisaged for the evolution of the various arrangements. I believe in the ability to adapt not only our economic fabric, but also our citizens. We will reach the end of the health crisis thanks to our ability to reinvent ourselves on a daily basis. Adapting to business issues has been the driving force behind the Government's economic action. The State has been able to best accompany each sector of activity. Currently, almost 90% of French companies operate normally, despite health restrictions. Our goal, which is essential, is of course to support the 10 % of companies that remain, as we have done since the crisis began. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Mr. Forissier, you wanted us to dare make decisions. But we have made courageous decisions. We will have to take more, and that is what we will do when the time comes, in the coming weeks. In particular, I will present to the Prime Minister and the President of the Republic a plan dedicated to the self-employed, who represent 3 million companies. I will propose measures relating to protection, in particular social protection, simplification, transfer of businesses – which you mentioned – and to collaborating spouses and business failures. It is normal for us to allow the self-employed to work under the best possible conditions. It is time that, in the context of this crisis, we took measures which have been expected for a very long time and which correspond to their way of functioning.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u117	We come to the questions. I would like to remind you that both the duration and the duration of the replies are limited to two minutes without the right to reply. Mr. Stéphane Viry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u118	You have already answered, Mr.Minister Delegate, some of the questions raised in this debate. Proposed by the Republican Group, this is important since it concerns the situation of companies affected by the crisis of the Covid-19. I have a thought for all the traders, self-employed and leaders of TPE that we have received for the past year, as I did for my part in Epinal. We have often called upon the Government, including yourself, to convey their suggestions, fears and grievances. However, there is still serious concern to date, despite massive support from the State, which still has shortcomings. For my part, I will have four questions. The first concerns self-employed workers, whose social situation is still inadequate. What about the plan you mentioned? It is known that the self-employed allowance has not worked and there is clearly a gap in your scheme. My second question, already mentioned by Nicolas Forissier, concerns the industrial sectors: it is time to put the package with a strong political will to restructure the industry. In some sectors, this is currently the dry outage. I would also like to express to you a major concern about the European ceiling, which seems to be already reached or even exceeded. What is the status of negotiations between the Government and the European Commission? We need money on this. I also wonder about the degressivity of the solidarity fund during the period of release from confinement, from June to August: the opacity is great on this subject. What about it? Is there a re-visit clause in late summer 2021? In addition, indoor sports establishments are eagerly awaiting their reopening. I wrote to you, Minister Delegate, about an establishment in Chavelot. The employers of these structures were not always compensated because, as employees, they could not obtain remuneration. Again, there are many questions and expectations. I see our colleague Blanchet: what about discos, of which we obviously know that they will not be able to reopen? How will they be compensated? Finally, I will have one final question about the world of arts and entertainment: the gauges put in place will limit turnover. How will you compensate for the impossibility of normal operation?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u119	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u120	I would need much more than two minutes to answer all of your questions, Mr. Viry, but I will try to respond quickly to some of them. It is normal for entrepreneurs to be concerned about the health situation and the uncertainty about their future. Nevertheless, we are listening to them and at their disposal. It is our principle to consult them on future arrangements. For the self-employed, I will present proposals to the Prime Minister and the President of the Republic over the next few weeks, as I indicated a few minutes ago. I hope, moreover, that as part of the review of the Social Security Financing Bill or the Finance Bill, all parliamentarians will have the opportunity to express their support for the self-employed by approving the proposals that we will have to make. With regard to the European ceilings, I can tell you that we have been negotiating with the Commission for more than a year on the details of the arrangements put in place by the French State, in particular on fixed costs. We are working on the ceilings, particularly the one of 1.8 million. It's a matter of concern, but I think we're going to make it. The solidarity fund will be adapted. The President said that in May he would be re-elected under the same conditions as in April. For the months of June, July and August, it will experience a degression depending on the resumption of activity. We are planning a re-visit clause by August 31 to determine whether there is still a need to accompany certain sectors, I am thinking in particular of the event. Indoor activities, including sports, are part of the areas I have worked with a lot. Like thermal plants, they benefit from a specific scheme to cover their fixed costs, 90% for companies with less than 1 million turnovers. It should be noted that, in these fixed costs, there is the remuneration that allows representatives of these companies to have coverage. As you will understand, we have worked sector by sector in detail to answer questions from entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u121	Mr Robert Therry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u122	First of all, I would like to pay tribute to all those who toured France during this crisis, to those who spent their lives without counting on the service of others, and more particularly to those who work in the largest French company, artisans and traders – so many TPEs and SMEs that are vital to our country. Of course, the Government has put in place significant and appreciated aid, but while some economic actors are well supported, others have been left on the road. I chose tonight to detail three causes of disarray among some entrepreneurs. First of all, there is a problem with some EPA codes. I know companies whose activity is mostly event oriented, but whose EPA code retains the small part of computer activities, or others who, although living mainly from trade and tourism, have an EPA code "breeding other animals". These inadequate codes prevent them from receiving many aids. Another common problem is the consideration of dual activity, one essential and the other not. Take the case of a grocery brewery: the brasserie side will be closed but not the grocery side. Even though their costs remain, these companies are excluded from the aid, as they did not suffer a 50% or more loss of turnover compared to the year before the crisis. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Third pitfall: the red tape that weighs more in these times of crisis. Some artisans, who had qualifications and other certifications essential to their activity, were threatened with losing them because they could not provide enough construction sites because of the confinements. These SMEs and TPEs are therefore exposed to a double penalty: prevented from working, they risk losing markets due to lack of qualifications. Many companies fear that 2022 will be fatal to them. Mr Minister Delegate, how will you prevent them from dying when, thanks to all those who have worked throughout this crisis, they make France live?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u123	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u124	Mr President, like you, I would like to pay tribute to all those courageous entrepreneurs, present and available, who, during this crisis, have been confronted: they have enabled France to continue to function and the French to have access to the services and services they expected and to benefit from the food. Far from letting them die, we fight every day to keep them alive. I myself have been a craftsman for forty years and I know that when starting a business, no one really pays attention to the APE code, which is used by INSEE to compile statistics. When the crisis began, it was necessary to select a criterion and the EPA code was retained. However, some companies that have changed their business have retained the same code, which may have deprived them of the desired support. In very specific cases, where we find that the predominant turnover corresponds to an activity other than that targeted by the APE code, we are looking for a solution to accompany the company. You are referring to the fact that some artisans would have lost their qualifications. I assume that you are referring to the RGE certification – recognised as a guarantor of the environment – for construction companies. I can assure you that my colleague minister responsible for housing and I have worked a lot on this: we have set up an EMR to allow those who did not have the qualification to access the MaPrimeRenov' device. There is no question of penalising these companies that need to work regularly. We listen to them and try to support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u125	Mr Christophe Blanchet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u126	Unfortunately, many companies will soon be weakened by the opening of a safeguard or judicial remedy against one or more of their clients. They could be required to apply in turn for the opening of one of those proceedings, or even to be the subject of a judicial liquidation. These series of openings of collective proceedings will have devastating consequences for employment and our economy. Why, then, not to study now devices intended to mitigate the inevitable? When a safeguard or judicial reorganization procedure is initiated, the company's liabilities are systematically frozen for a period of observation ranging from 12 to 18 months. Creditors who do not currently benefit from any security or payment privilege may also be required to file. Why not grant these creditor companies an advance of 75% to 80% of the declared and certified claim? After the adoption of the judicial restructuring plan, the amount of the advance would be increased to 100 % of the amount of the accepted debt, minus the amount of the discounts granted and the amount converted into securities giving or giving access to the capital. Refunds of this advance would be made by paying the annual dividends of the plan to the funding agency by the Commissioner for the Implementation of the Plan. The recipient company could be asked to pay at each maturity interest calculated at the legal rate in effect on the first day of the first payment of the advance. Access to this system would of course be closed to companies whose managers have been convicted of serious breaches of accounting obligations. These proposals have been worked out with the President of the Caen Commercial Court, Mr Taillandier, whom I thank here. From the field, they are the result of the experience of many specialists. I could submit others to you, of course, but I'm short of time. Mr. Deputy Minister, do you think such a measure is feasible in the short term? More broadly, what mechanisms are in place to avoid a domino effect on our economy?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u127	Very good proposal!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u128	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u129	You are right: what you call the domino effect, the fact that a failed company causes suppliers to fall is a risk. With the guard of the seals, we asked Mr Richelme, former President of the General Conference of Consular Judges of France, a few months ago to give us a report on the treatment of companies in difficulty. The plan for the self-employed will examine how difficulties can be prevented as early as possible. For the time being, we have overall managed to hold and avoid too many failures. The stakes you are addressing are very important, because it is important to limit the dramatic consequences that one company's difficulties may have on others. The device you are planning, which is generally complex, is not without risk and has not been retained. Be assured that I am going with my colleagues, especially with the guard of the seals, to look at how we can protect the contractor who is in default because, as you know, he may have to bear the debts of the company for which he is personally responsible for a very long time, as well as the suppliers to avoid the cascades of defaults that you have mentioned.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u130	Mr Alain David has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u131	Mrs Valérie Rabault, in her speech, has swept away this vast question which concerns us on all the benches of this assembly: the fabric of companies in all our territories is severely affected by the health crisis. While the Government has mobilized significant resources through State-guaranteed loans or the solidarity fund, some companies are asking us as local elected officials to alert us that these arrangements are insufficient or do not allow for their particular situation to be taken into account. I am thinking in particular of food wholesalers and, more generally, companies dependent on tourism, hotels and restaurants, as well as smaller structures which have not been created long enough to justify sufficient turnover at certain reference periods. I would like to know what avenues the Government is exploring with a view to a new recovery plan. In the United States, President Biden had the lucidity to come back to the famous runoff policy, which he confesses never worked. It is implementing a genuine economic and social recovery plan with record funding. You and your government, Minister Delegate, what are you doing to show yourself, at last, to the height of this serious crisis?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u132	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u133	I think, Mr President, that the vast majority of entrepreneurs – I encounter a lot of them – consider the arrangements put in place by the French state to be quite exceptional and to respond to the situation as a whole. This does not mean that everything is simple: I know of course the difficulties faced by companies. The effort made by France – a state-guaranteed loan, solidarity funds, partial unemployment compensation, exemption from social contributions – is exemplary. When we compare it, when the time comes, with that of the equivalent countries, you will see that we will be among the states that have done the most for business. You're talking about a few special cases that I've been looking at, like many others. Let's take the drink wholesalers: I moved to the suburbs of Reims to visit a company in this sector and I can tell you that since January, the solidarity fund – aid of up to 10000 euros or 20 % of turnover – and the specific fixed cost scheme allow us to continue to support these companies. You stress the need to implement another type of recovery plan. Our goal is first of all to implement the 100 billion recovery plan over two years. The President of the Republic referred to the possibility of a second recovery period. We will have to see how we can continue to support certain sectors. I assure you that we will accompany companies as long as it takes, at least as long as health conditions prevent them from returning to normal activity.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u134	Mr M'jid El Guerrab has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u135	I am returning from a tour of my constituency in the Maghreb and West Africa where we have never experienced such a level of social and economic crisis since the post-war period: 691000 jobs have been abolished, the unemployment rate has increased by more than 7%. Today we are facing a challenge and I join you, Minister Delegate, in the fact that France has shown itself to be up to the challenge by introducing a powerful support mechanism for companies located in France. However, as you know, there is a gap in this scheme: companies owned by French nationals abroad are unfortunately not assisted. It is thus 3.5 million French entrepreneurs, mostly in the catering or hotel sector, who work, create, put their guts into their work tools and export the know-how to French. They are our ambassadors abroad, as we keep telling them in embassies. However, when they turn to our institutions, our embassies, the Agence française de développement (AFD) or Proparco – Promotion and participation for economic cooperation – they receive a negative response, arguing that they cannot be granted anything or that it is complicated. If you are an entrepreneur and you need 100,000 euros of loans today, and you are in Morocco, Algeria, Tunisia or Africa, you will not be able to get them unless you turn to the markets and accept exorbitant rates. French entrepreneurs abroad are at the end of the roll and we must help them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u136	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u137	I remember our exchange in this Chamber last January, when you asked me about the situation of French entrepreneurs abroad: I received your proposals well and I thank you very warmly. I know these entrepreneurs well, for meeting a number of them. First of all, they benefit from the aid programmes set up in their country of residence, where they exist, but it is true that there are not all of them and you were kind enough to say that France had been exemplary on this point, which I thank you for. In this regard, I would like to point out that the economic services of the Directorate-General of the Treasury, which are present in more than 105 countries, are fully mobilized and provide an active watch to accompany French entrepreneurs located abroad. As regards their financial support, there are mechanisms established with the help of the Agence Française de Développement, through its subsidiary Proparco, dedicated to the private sector, which you mentioned: I am thinking in particular of the ARIZ guarantee – accompanying the risk of financing private investment in the intervention zone – which is a guarantee in final loss offered by Proparco to financial institutions to cover 50% to 75% of an individual loan. I would also like to point out that French entrepreneurs abroad can count on the support of local players of influence in France, in particular the French chambers of commerce abroad. Finally, I should like to add to these schemes export aid, particularly in the context of the emergency plan and the recovery plan, which has an export component of EUR 247 million. These are the few things I can bring you. I am naturally at your disposal to examine how these measures can be further improved in one way or another.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u138	Mr Guy Bricout has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u139	Companies are generally satisfied with the aid they have received to go through the crisis, which you have been able to adapt over the months. I would also like to pay tribute to the reactivity and listening of your office, as well as that of Bruno Le Maire, who have always responded to our requests, particularly regarding the lace and embroidery sector, which is very well established in my constituency. These companies, which are emblematic of French know-how and are already shaken by Asian competition, are facing the health crisis as they depend heavily on the event and export sector, which accounts for most of their sales: I am thinking of Jean Bracq, Guéguin, Sophie Hallette, Solstiss and others. It is essential to help them stay on course and keep their image with their customers, both in France and internationally. Through them, it is all the know-how of their employees that we must recognize and protect. You've been able to meet some of their expectations. However, there are still gaps, which are particularly damaging for certain sectors: for example, the French Textile Manufacturing company points out that while it works for sectors considered to be heavily affected by the health crisis – textile wholesale trades in particular – it is not affected by the aid granted to them, in particular those relating to social security contributions or the rate of take-over of partial activity. This company is not considered by the USSRAF to be part of the S1a list, because its APE 1310Z code corresponds to the activity "preparation of textile fibres and spinning". However, its industry is very competitive and the company manager is on the brink of exhaustion. Are you considering remedying these shortcomings? I would add that this company is also confronted, as has been pointed out earlier, like its French and European colleagues, with serious problems of supply of raw materials, combined with the tripling of transport costs at sea from 2020 to 2021. How do you analyse the situation and what means do you plan to remedy it? Several members of the Government travelled at the beginning of the crisis to visit these companies: we would be delighted that these meetings continue in order to prepare the post-crisis period for these flagships of the French industry.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u140	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u141	I know very well, Mr. Member of Parliament, your constituency and the city in which you have long served as mayor. I also know the embroidery sector and its importance within your territory. I am particularly sensitive to the preservation of this remarkable sector, which has been tested by the crisis. That is why I ensured, as early as November, that this sector of activity is included in the S1 bis list of the solidarity fund set up by the Government to support the most affected companies. You mention the situation of companies and, as you were kind enough to say, we are striving, with my firm and Bruno's. The Mayor, to determine, when our attention is drawn to a particular case, the best way to accompany him. This week, my firm has contacted the companies concerned: we will continue to look for ways to help them, beyond the general arrangements in force, given their specific characteristics and their somewhat specific modes of operation. Finally, in response to your invitation, I propose that you come quickly to your constituency to accompany these entrepreneurs and to provide the support of the entire Government to their sector.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u142	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u143	Since April 24, approximately 400,000 workers over 55 years of age have been able to obtain priority vaccination against covid-19. The selection criteria adopted by the Government include working in a closed environment, being unable to respect barriers, being unable to telework or being particularly at risk. According to a list published by the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Integration, about 20 occupations have been defined according to this methodology. Since then, the Government has announced a new timetable for de-configuration: it intends to lift the restrictions and allow so-called non-essential shops, restaurants, bars and cultural venues to reopen gradually. It was these institutions that suffered the most from the consequences of the crisis: the forced closures or curfews they had to deal with have seriously damaged their activities. While state aid has, to date, fortunately kept a large part of it afloat, a rapid resumption of activity is essential to ensure its sustainability. Many of those working in these sectors wish to have priority access to vaccination: taxi drivers, cashiers, waiters, sellers or cultural professionals are particularly vulnerable to the epidemic. Do you hear, Minister Delegate, respond favourably to their request and expand the list of professions that allow priority access to covid vaccination -19?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u144	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u145	The health crisis is indeed terrible for all French people, for business leaders and for all workers. However, we have a special chance to have vaccines. A year ago, few of us could have imagined this situation. The current production of vaccines gives us the hope of meeting the targets set by the Prime Minister for 20 million people vaccinated on 15 May and 30 million in June. Nevertheless, there are still a number of priority audiences, since the choice was made in France to first vaccinate the most fragile and the oldest or residents of EHPAD. A few days ago, vaccination was opened to a new category of French priority, in particular people who suffer from diseases such as diabetes or obesity. On the other hand, certain professions are particularly exposed. The Prime Minister and the Minister of Solidarity and Health referred to the teaching staff; Some occupations have begun to be cited and vaccination will initially apply to those over 55. We will continue in this direction and I am confident that, in the coming months or even in the coming weeks, we will be able to accompany all those who are in direct contact with the public and who need protection. I hope, as the President of the Republic has said, that by the end of the summer, all those who in France wanted to be vaccinated will have been able to do so.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u146	Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u147	The health crisis is having a terrible impact on PEAs, SMEs and the self-employed, all over France, but especially in the overseas countries that are already experiencing unemployment and poverty without comparison with hexagon. The recent figures obtained by the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of La Réunion from its members are indeed worrying: 26% of companies state that they are considering the cessation of their activity; 55 % fear it in less than three months and 5 % are already being closed; 85% report a turnover decrease of 30% or more and 42% cannot pay their employees; 27% of tenants are unable to pay their rent and 67% of entrepreneurs are no longer able to pay. For more than a year, France has repeatedly proposed the introduction of a progressive scale per tranche for access to the solidarity fund. Indeed, the granting of the aid is conditional on the loss of 50 % of turnover, regardless of the level of income, which exposes the most vulnerable self-employed and small businesses in particular. Of course, you have announced that, starting in June, cafes, restaurants and places of culture would benefit from the solidarity fund, even if their revenue loss is less than 50%. But why didn't you decide it before? Why have you not adopted our amendments to this effect in the last year? La Réunion's independents and small businesses are seeking compensation from 30 per cent of sales losses and want all sectors to be included in this measure. Will you hear their call and adapt the business support package to the difficult overseas context? I very much hope so.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u148	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u149	I know the very important weight of small businesses in all the overseas territories, especially on the island of La Réunion. I would point out that derogatory access to the reinforced solidarity fund has been authorised for all retail businesses in the ultramarine territories most heavily dependent on tourism. It is obvious that we will have to continue to support these companies: citing figures, you mentioned their difficulties in terms of both reimbursement and payment of remuneration or social contributions. We have asked the Primary Health Insurance Fund (CPAM) and the USSRAF to take the utmost care to accompany those who are most in difficulty, by exempting them from social contributions or by providing them with financial support. We will continue to look very carefully, with the support of the ultramarine consular chambers, how we can help them. You have hoped that the solidarity fund will accompany those who suffer a loss of turnover less than what was originally planned: your wish is fulfilled and we will strive to continue in this direction, with a resumption of activities that I hope will be very rapid, especially on the island of La Réunion and in all the ultramarine territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u150	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u151	I would like to refer to the situation of certain companies in my territory, in order to help identify the shortcomings of the support scheme and to be tailor-made. First of all, I would like to quote the example of the company LM communication – I have already seized it – which manufactures promotional items and was denied access to the solidarity fund in 2021. This SME, which employs about 20 employees, has managed to keep its business flowing in 2020, diversifying in the realization of plexiglas protections and the provision of masks. Unfortunately, these emergency alternative development activities are now obsolete, as demand has dried up. The company, which managed to pass through 2020 by briefly seeking partial unemployment, but without recourse to the solidarity fund, cannot claim it this year, on the grounds that it does not meet the conditions for a turnover gap between 2019 and 2020. My second example is the company Neochrysallis, created in March 2020 – just before the outbreak of the crisis – thanks to the support scheme for entrepreneurs and business owners (ACRE). It provides advice to SMEs in industry. Since her activity was stopped by the health crisis, she was forced to reorient herself, without generating turnover for several months, to build a new network of customers and obtain the necessary approvals. It is therefore not eligible for aid schemes, and is likely to be obliged to cease its activity in September, especially since it is faced with the extinction of rights at the employment centre, which makes it possible to finance wages. Could you look at these two cases, Minister Delegate, hoping that they will unlock the situation of other comparable companies?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u152	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u153	You're putting your finger on very difficult situations. Let me remind you that we have 3 million independents. In the early days of the crisis, we had to develop mechanisms that the Directorate-General for Public Finance can deal with on an industrial scale, with cross-cutting measures – you will share this objective. Indeed, we could not deal individually with the case of each company. So that's what we did first. For the past few months, we have been trying to respond to specific cases. You mentioned a very specific example in the event and communication: in 2020, almost no company in this sector increased its turnover. The company to which you refer has decided to change its model, to adapt and generate revenue: in fact, it managed to obtain, in 2020, a turnover equivalent to that of 2019. It therefore did not meet the eligibility conditions, which reserved the protective scheme at the time for companies that had lost at least 10% of their turnover in 2020 compared to 2019. As a result, it did not benefit from the Solidarity Fund in 2021, even though its new activity disappeared. You emphasize a perverse effect, for this company, of a device that was initially positive. The second company you are talking about, of very recent creation, has not been able to generate sales due to the crisis. I invite him to come closer to the USSRAF because, as I explained earlier, there are adequate financial support schemes for entrepreneurs who have not been able to benefit from the solidarity fund. As for the first company, I will ask my firm to contact her so that her particular case can be studied. I understand the difficulty it encounters as a result of the evolution of its activity, despite its willingness to find suitable solutions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u154	Mr Bertrand Bouyx has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u155	In the preamble, I would like to pay tribute to all companies facing the crisis, whether small or large, and whatever their field of activity. I also pay tribute to employees who are partially unemployed or are still active. On the occasion of my travels to the territory, when I met with companies, I was alerted to several situations, three of which particularly drew my attention. Thus, the crisis of covid-19 causes, at the international level, a sharp increase in the price of raw materials, particularly in the metallurgy, wood and semiconductor sectors, whereas the order books have never been so full. This is due to the shutdown of certain industrial sites, the competition on materials and the increase in operating costs. What support could be provided to the companies concerned, in order to prevent price increases or increased supply delays from spilling over too dangerously to them and then to their customers? Moreover, in the catering and hotel sectors, the conversion of a large number of employees results in a shortage of skilled labour, which is detrimental to the reopening of these structures. There are also concerns about the hiring of young apprentices, as some have not received practical training in companies – the latter having been hit by administrative closures. These two factors – conversions and lack of training – can jeopardize economic recovery. What is envisaged to deal with this worrying situation? Finally, there is a risk to companies: the lack of inter-company payment – as you have already mentioned, Mr.Minister Delegate, but I would like more details. How can we deal with this risk, which could have a domino effect on the economic fabric? Failure to pay certain invoices may compromise companies that were in good health; This risk is significant, given the debts that have been accumulated.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u156	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u157	I join you in paying tribute to the entrepreneurs and employees of France, who have faced a terrible health crisis. First of all, you are asking me about the rise in the price of raw materials. As I told Mrs Chill, I met with representatives of the building, who are most affected by this phenomenon, particularly for wood and steel. We are, in a way, caught up: on the one hand, activity is recovering very strongly in the United States and China; on the other hand, the productivity of enterprises is decreasing. Bruno Le Maire and I will study what can be done – especially in public procurement – to avoid painful consequences for companies that have signed contracts for a long time. We can also hope that in the coming weeks and months, the industry will resume and the market will stabilize. You then discussed the situation of restaurants – a topic we studied last week when we received their representatives. The latter estimate that 100,000 staff are at risk of missing because they have changed their jobs. With Élisabeth Borne and the Pôle Emploi, we have worked on the development of specific training courses for job seekers in busy trades, including hotels and restaurants. With regard to apprentices, some of whom have not been able to carry out internships in companies, we are creating observation and further training courses so that they can carry out an activity quite quickly. Finally, with regard to payment difficulties, we must carry out preventive and accompaniment work: the credit mediator is at the disposal of companies to study the possibility of intervening as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u158	Mrs Typhanie Degois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u159	The territory's 90 thermal resorts are all in great difficulty, without exception. Last year, the thermal plants were only able to open four months, with a loss of more than €110 million. Beyond this, the closure of these establishments has affected spas throughout their economy, as many professionals depend on them – artisans, traders, hairdressers or hoteliers – or 100,000 direct and indirect jobs. The thermal baths are at the spas what the ski lifts are at the ski resorts. Yet, while only a small part of the 2020 season was held, and the 2021 season is likely to start only on 24 May, there is no enhanced support for spa companies. Since the situation is equal to that of the ski resorts, the spas require equal treatment. In order to ensure the sustainability of the spa economy, two mechanisms should be implemented as soon as possible. The first concerns the extension of the fixed costs compensation fund to hotels, cafes and restaurants located in spas, without a minimum turnover requirement. Indeed, the reinforced solidarity fund is not enough, given the size of the fixed charges on hotel structures. However, they are not able to justify more than EUR 1 million in turnover per month. The second scheme would aim at extending the reinforced solidarity fund to the socio-professional categories of spas, as is already possible for ski resorts. Enterprises in the unprotected sectors, i.e. not belonging to sectors S1 and S1a, according to the decree of 30 March 2020, can only be compensated for their turnover losses at a monthly rate of EUR 1500: in reality, their losses can be much greater. Deputy Minister, you know the strong particularism that inhabits the spas: a large part of the economic activity of the thermal territories lives and depends on thermalism. Are you in favour of extending the fixed costs compensation fund and extending the solidarity fund to companies located in spas? Moreover, when will casinos, which are the second pillar of thermal cities, be able to open again?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u160	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u161	Through a few questions, tonight's debate reveals a small part of French economic activity; But God knows that there are many sectors! In the ministry where I have been in office since July, I am fortunate to be listening to all these areas on a daily basis. This very morning I received Mr Jean-Yves Gouttebel, chairman of the departmental council of Puy-de-Dôme, who gave me a report commissioned by the Prime Minister on the spas. Already a few weeks ago, we decided to include spas in the fixed costs compensation fund, as well as in-room activities and sports halls: this device offers considerable assistance and support. We will work on the proposals of the Gouttebel report, in order to give a perspective to the spas, the thermal baths and the economic activities that depend on them, which are very affected by the closure of the spas – I was able to see this when I went to Challes-les-Eaux a few weeks ago. As we have done for mountain resorts, we will explore ways to support these activities. With regard to casinos – of which we have also received representatives this week – the slot game will resume quite quickly, on May 19, followed by the table game game on June 9. These reopenings will be carried out in accordance with health safety rules and barrier actions, in order to ensure sufficient security for all customers, allowing the resumption of normal activity. We therefore accompany the casinos, as we accompany the thermal baths and many other sectors of activity.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u162	The debate on the situation of companies affected by the covid-19 crisis is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-04-O1262.u163	Next sitting, tomorrow, at 3 p.m.: Debate on "What national strategy for the next common agricultural policy? "; Questions on "CAP 2021-2027, National Strategic Plan Issues"; Debate on "Supporting economic activity in the face of covid-19: deployment and effectiveness of aid". The meeting is adjourned.
