ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u1	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the second part of the finance bill for 2022 (No. 4482, 4524).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u2	We are dealing with the examination of credits relating to sport, youth and associative life (No 4524, Annex 41; No 4597, Volume VI). I call Mr Benjamin Dirx, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u3	Let us not be mistaken: beyond even technical or financial considerations, the presentation of this report is of fundamental importance. Sport, youth and associative life are at the heart of living together and civic commitment. The very ones who make our hearts beat in unison, who create cohesion. Sport is not just about movement and sweat, it is hope, it is humanity. Far from defining himself as a competition, he aggregates destinies to create a way of life. Our mission? Accompani him urbi and orbi: sport for all, sport everywhere! Associative life is social cement: working to firm our needs, from the smallest to the most vital, this bond is special. It uniquely colores our country and obliges us to support our associations with targeted and efficient aids. I do not forget that all this is part of the accompaniment of our youth, the construction of the intergenerational link and the strengthening of our social mix. I will present to you the highlights of this budget, which illustrate the momentum desired by the President of the Republic, the Government and the parliamentary majority over the past four years. This budget is first and foremost sport everywhere! After two government missions on sport and the hearing of more than 300 actors, I focused my evaluation work on the financing policy for sports equipment. Very quickly, one observation was made: the lack of local facilities is a deficiency that prevents the democratization of sport and creates real territorial inequality. In order to remedy this problem, the evaluation report recommended the establishment of a fund to support local and regional authorities in the financing of their sports facilities. In this regard, I would particularly like to welcome the President of the Republic's plan to create 5,000 community sports facilities in three years. The majority groups will defend shortly, during the examination of the mission's appropriations, an amendment opening, as early as 2022, an envelope of EUR 200 million so that our children can practice a sport near their home regardless of their place of residence. This budget is then sport for all! It secures funding for the Olympic and Paralympic Games of 2024 and secures their legacy throughout our territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u4	Let's talk about it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u5	He is also the one we defended together when we proposed and adopted the pass'sport. This scheme, which is still open for several weeks, has already enabled more than 600,000 young people to benefit from this €50 allowance. In addition to providing direct support to the less affluent households, the sports pass has proved to be a real responsibility for clubs, which have seen a substantial increase in the number of licensees. On the occasion of the amendments, I shall elaborate on certain proposals which aim to improve this mechanism for the coming year. This budget is finally that of youth and associative life. Associative life, when the Fund for the Development of Associative Life (FDVA) is maintained at more than EUR 50 million. In addition to the 33 million euros of budget appropriations, the shift towards the Fund of the sums derived from the accounts in disinherence, desired and obtained by the then MP, Sarah El Haïry, will bring back 19 million euros in 2022. Madam Secretary of State for Youth and Commitment, it is with the same determination that I will defend at this sitting an amendment aimed at sustaining this funding. This budget is also that of youth because, intimately linked with social mix, youth is our future. Particularly committed on this subject, this budget allocates €110 million to the universal national service (UNS). With its time of cohesion and then of commitment within an association or a public body, it will bring out the citizens of tomorrow. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] And, as Jean Jaurès so well said, "What is the ideal? It is the development of the human soul." This ideal, I dare to move forward, we owe it to our youth!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u6	Mr Bertrand Pancher, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u7	To examine the budget of the Sport, Youth and Associative Life mission is to dive into three central dimensions of the daily lives of our fellow citizens and our territories. It is also a reflection of the difficulties encountered by a group of organizations whose balances are precarious and have been severely affected by the health crisis. I am therefore particularly pleased to present this year's report on behalf of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education. Turning to the gross figures, it should be noted that at EUR 1.3 billion, the appropriations requested from Parliament reached an unprecedented amount. They will certainly not be too much, given the difficulties encountered both by associations and by the sports movement or by young people. I will recall only one figure: between 2019 and 2020, the number of licensees in sports associations decreased by 30%. The financial consequences have been terrible for clubs and federations. The latter are still standing thanks to serious financial management and drastic savings plans. However, their situation remains fragile. This rising budget can be welcomed, but it can also be seen that it is only making up for delays that have been accumulated for many years. We need to support more and better the world of associations and French sport. The problem is financial, of course, but also human: associations are sorely short of volunteers and this is only getting worse. Of all the actions financed by this mission, we need a strong impetus in terms of decentralisation, simplification and stability of support for sport and associations in our country. The main new measure, in 2021 and 2022, is the pass'sport, with EUR 100 million. We welcome the principle of this mechanism, namely to support families and children's sporting activities. After a few months, however, we find that it does not meet its objectives, because it is too complex and too centralised in its management. What will be the effective support of the state via the pass'sport when many departments already have a sports coupon and small clubs do not have the necessary "asso account" (LCA)? You're talking about a consumption of the 30% envelope that asks a clear question: how do you plan to make the credits not consumed in sport? We need to simplify this system! The simplification will then have to relate to the FDVA. This new funding stratum complicates the lives of associations. Many of them do not know who to go to for help and the prefectures are overloaded. As I am committed to a real decentralization shock, I have proposed that these resources be transferred directly to the local authorities, as they know the needs of their territory. I, like many colleagues, look forward to a real assessment of the abolition of the parliamentary reserve. Without transition, I come to the program that funds the Olympic and Paralympic Games. At this stage, the amounts are in line with the estimates. But for athletes to be at the meeting, it will also require a real political portage of high-level sport and better coordination between actors. The creation of the National Sport Agency (ANS) has been a reflection of the cards by taking up some of the competencies previously held by the Ministry. This does not seem foolish to me, even if a clarification of the role and prerogatives of each – ministry, ANS, federations – seems necessary. Finally, I would like to refer to policies aimed at young people. I see the constant accumulation of devices over the years, even in this finance bill (FLP). It might be a pleasure to see public authorities invest more, but this activism misrepresents the lack of priorities and vision. Civic service is growing in power, but it is financed by exceptional funds attached to the recovery plan: what will happen in 2023? The effort in favour of the UNS is increasing, even if we are still far from generalisation: in a word, we question the ability of the UNS to fulfil the mission assigned to it in terms of social and cultural mixing. This is beyond the scope of the mission, but as the last budget in the quinquennium, we can take stock of youth policies. In order to coordinate the actions of the various ministries, an interdepartmental committee would have been welcome. Its creation would have sent a real political signal. Instead, the arrangements are piled up, without overall coherence or real arbitration. In addition, there will soon be new announcements on a commitment income for young people, whose ambition is decreasing from day to day. In short, in the face of a disembodied youth, the state runs like a headless duck. These are some of the highlights of this mission: Sport, Youth and Associative Life. We expect substantial changes which I will defend by way of amendment; the fate of the latter will depend on the vote of the Libertés et territoires group on all the appropriations of the mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u8	We come to the statements of the spokespersons of the groups. Mrs Maud Petit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u9	We are gathered to review the increased appropriations for the Sport, Youth and Associative Life mission of the fifth and last fiscal year of the legislature. In 2022, with more than €510 million, funding for the development of sports practice and support for high-level sport will increase by 14% compared to 2021, while an additional €62 million will be allocated for the preparation of Paris 2024, for a total of €296 million. The Group of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats would like to acknowledge the unprecedented efforts made to promote sport; We are all here aware of the importance of this in ensuring the good health of our society. Indeed, while sport contributes to the health of our citizens, it contributes in many ways to maintaining cohesion through the dissemination of social and citizen values. As such, the budget for 2022 maintains the support provided to the sector in the context of the pandemic and also enables action to promote the development of sports practice for all. In 2022, I am pleased to see the pass'sport, which will encourage young people to resume a sporting activity and which will support the amateur sports world, which has been affected by the decline in membership since the pandemic. This new system will also be an effective lever to reduce inequalities in access to sport. It is also with this same objective that we, together with the other groups of the majority, will be defending an amendment aimed at quickly concretizing the recent announcements by the President of the Republic. Its adoption will fund a development plan of €200 million, spread over three years, for the construction of community sports facilities that can be used both in open access and by clubs or by the school public. While sport has multiple benefits, it is essential that it is at the heart of different public policies. That is why we are particularly pleased to see that the additional appropriations committed for 2022, or EUR 50 million, will achieve the target of 500 sports-health homes by the end of the year. Finally, I would like to thank you, Madam Minister responsible for sports, for entrusting me and Aude Amadou with a mission to create a sports ticket. Like the restaurant title, it will allow companies to encourage their employees to turn more to sport, by financing their participation in a sporting activity. I am glad that you gave this initiative, which was born a few months ago on the benches of this House, the chance to materialize before the end of the legislature. With regard to high-performance sport, the effort supported by the 350 program is evidence of the gradual rise in preparations for the Olympic and Paralympic Games, the organization of which remains the primary objective of the Ministry of Sport. I now turn to the other part of this mission, which deals with youth and associative life. In a context where the voluntary sector appears to be heavily affected by the health crisis, the appropriations allocated to programme 163 will increase by 11.5 % in 2022, reaching €772 million. These enhanced resources will enable further efforts to be made for the voluntary actors, whose action is a key lever, both for economic activity and for social cohesion. In this regard, we welcome the massive strengthening of the civic service, whose funding on this mission as well as on the Recovery Plan mission will contribute to achieving the goal of welcoming at least 200,000 young people by 2022. In the same way, we welcome the increase in funding for the universal national service, which will allow the creation of eighty jobs as project managers with a view to continuing the deployment of the scheme and ensuring the support of 50,000 young people next year. Our group would like to congratulate Secretary of State Sarah El Haïry for her actions in favour of young people, which have enabled the creation of this unique mechanism through which the commitment of our young citizens is put at the service of our society and the defence of its values. In conclusion, I will remind you of a few figures. Over five years, the budget allocated to the Mission as a whole has increased by 72%, from €0.92 billion in 2017 to €1.58 billion in 2019. Without the resources allocated to the Olympic and Paralympic Games 2024, the increase in appropriations is 40%. It must be noted that, throughout this legislature, we have been able to restore its place to sports and association practice, thanks to new projects such as the UNS, the civic service and the pass'sport. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group and on some benches of the LaREM group]] As you will have understood, the Group of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats will vote for the funds allocated to this mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u10	Mrs Sylvie Tolmont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u11	Last week, in the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, my colleague Régis Juanico devoted his speech to the sport aspect of this finance bill for 2022. On that occasion, he wished to add a few words to the Government's welcome presentation regarding the allocation of funds for sport in the last five-year budget. With 0.32% of the nation's budget and 987 million euros, he lamented, we are far from the 1% target and the 3 billion euros that would be needed to achieve a strong ambition in the run-up to the Paris Olympic Games. He also stressed, inter alia, the unrealistic assumptions on which the budget is based, in particular with regard to the Buffet tax on television rights in sport. I will not go back here to these criticisms, having chosen to pay particular attention to the Youth and Associative Life programme. The Socialist and Related Group deeply deplores your lack of support for associations, considering the stagnation of the amounts granted to FDVA and FONJEP – Fund for Cooperation of Youth and People's Education. As for young people, apart from the recovery plan, there is no provision for a lasting increase in the power of civic service. Our country has nearly 1.5 million associations. Whether they act in the field of sport, leisure, culture, advocacy or social assistance, they contribute to strengthening our social cohesion. They represent 21 million members, 13 million volunteers and 1.8 million employees, representing almost 10% of private employment. Hardly affected by the health crisis, purely voluntary associations – which do not employ employees – have not been able to benefit from the measures of common law and are struggling to bounce back. The crisis is undermining their financing model, which is more than 42 per cent based on user participation and only 21 per cent based on public subsidies. It is therefore essential that the State take its share of responsibility by supporting all these actors in a sustainable manner, beyond the recovery plan, and not just the major associations. We will therefore make several proposals to improve the budget by way of an amendment. One of these is to increase FDVA's funding from €33 million to €100 million, in order to provide strong support to the French community, particularly in the area of training, as the funds currently allocated do not allow quality training to be offered to all volunteers. Another amendment will aim to increase the allocation for FONJEP, with the aim of providing financial support to associations in the reception of new human resources, but also to enable many young people to enter the associative life sector professionally through this type of assisted contract. In the field of youth, civic service is a beautiful school of engagement, as well as a great opportunity for renewal for national or local associations, as well as for public institutions that host volunteers. It strengthens national cohesion and social diversity and provides an opportunity for any voluntary person to commit to a collective project by carrying out a mission of general interest. Civic service has now become a major generational marker for young French people. While the Government had chosen to develop universal national service, neglecting and threatening civic service, the health crisis had made it aware of the need for voluntary commitment to the public interest. He therefore finally decided, as we requested, to increase the number of citizens. However, no additional funding is allocated to the Civic Service Development project of the Youth and Associative Life programme: the additional funding is included in the Recovery Plan mission. We believe that the deployment of the civic service should not be a temporary response to the crisis, enshrined in the recovery plan, but rather a tool to develop and consolidate in a lasting way in the Sport, Youth and Associative Life mission. Because we choose to support rather than supervise young people, we hope that the funds allocated to the UNS will benefit from the strengthening of the quality and deployment of the civic service: we have also tabled amendments to this effect. [[Applause on the SOC and GDR benches]] For all these reasons and failing to take account of our amendments aimed at significantly improving the resources devoted to sport, youth and associative life, we will not vote for the appropriations for this mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u12	Mr Pierre-Yves Bournazel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u13	The resources of the Sport, Youth and Associative Life Mission – which includes the Sport Program, the Youth and Associative Life Program and the Olympic and Paralympic Games Program 2024 – are up by almost 19% compared to 2021. This increase and the resources mobilized must be welcomed, which are commensurate with the great difficulties faced by the sports and voluntary worlds in the face of the pandemic. Like many sectors, sport has been hard hit by the crisis. The Government acted quickly, taking unprecedented support measures in Europe and around the world. They covered all fields of sport, professional and amateur, and allowed to amortize the first effects of the crisis. In addition to emergency measures, the sport sector was accompanied under the recovery plan. For example, since the start of the health crisis in March 2020, support to the world of sport has amounted to almost €6 billion. A specific package of the recovery plan was also proposed, amounting to EUR 120 million over two years and abounding in the budget of the National Sport Agency. In addition, the introduction of the sports pass in the new year 2020 has enabled sports associations to find many licensees and to encourage the development of sports practice for all. The Group of the European People's Party fully supports this scheme and looks forward to its renewal. In 2022, the budget of the Ministry of Sport will thus reach a historic level, with 987 million euros, which represents an increase of 178 million over 2021: this is excellent news for us. These additional funds will be invested in part in the infrastructure of the Olympic and Paralympic Games 2024, but also in support of high performance. As I said in committee, Paris 2024 is not just about organizing the largest event in the world. It's about building a project that helps transform society and develop our territories. We need to develop a vision for the quality of life of our people and for our international attractiveness, which will be a tremendous boost to public policy. Three years from this major deadline, our country today has a real ambition for sport. This is the meaning of the "sports" plan recently announced by the President of the Republic in front of the medallists of the Tokyo Games. It provides for the creation or renovation of 5000 sports facilities by 2024, particularly in the under-funded territories and rural development areas. An amendment jointly advocated by the Government and our majority should allow EUR 100 million to be allocated to this vast development plan as early as 2022. Madam Minister responsible for sports, because sport is a formidable vehicle for social cohesion and individual emancipation, because the values of respect, solidarity, perseverance and collective spirit are the ones that our country needs most, because we can count on all the volunteers, associations, clubs, federations and professionals engaged, who transmit, share, love and make us love sport, let us take advantage of the Olympic and Paralympic Games in Paris 2024 to bring our ambition of making France a great and true sport nation to the fort! With regard to youth and associative life, the Action Together Group welcomes the strengthening of youth engagement and support for the voluntary sector provided for in the 2022 Finance Bill. In a very difficult social and economic context and while exclusion and inequality have been aggravated by the crisis, regaining social cohesion and investing in our associative model are major challenges. We support your work in this area, as we are pleased that the unprecedented effort undertaken in 2021 for civic service will be consolidated: 200000 young people will be able to engage in a civic service mission next year. Similarly, the Fund for the Development of Associative Life, with a budget of EUR 50 million, will support innovative voluntary projects and support the training of volunteers. In all their diversity, it is essential to support our associations. Every day, they work for sport, culture, recreation, school support, social action, heritage or the environment, and reinforce the invisible bond that unites the nation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u14	Beautiful!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u15	In a society marked by multiple divisions – economic, social, community, territorial – it is decisive to encourage and develop this spirit of solidarity. [[Applause on several benches of the Dem group]] Madam Minister Delegate, Madam Secretary of State, the Action Together Group knows how much the President of the Republic and the Government are committed to building a true sport nation and developing a commitment society. That is why we will vote with confidence on the appropriations for this mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u16	Mr Michel Zumkeller has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u17	First of all, like many of the previous speakers, I would like to pay tribute to the commitment of women and men who, every day, give their time to share a passion or simply be useful to young people, the least young, to all those in need. France has 1.5 million associations. It is a great wealth, but one must be able to support it, as much as it can prove to be fragile: the health crisis has unfortunately proved it, with its lot of confinements and administrative restrictions. For the most part, associations were subjected to a test they would never have imagined having to face. As a vector of social bond, a source of occupation, well-being and intergenerational transmission, associations are the lung of our territories: when they suffer, the whole country suffers as well. Even today, many of them are experiencing difficulties that cannot be ignored. While the State has sometimes been at the meeting, by providing its support to the employers' associations, to those who needed investment to modernize themselves, or of a large size, many small structures have not found themselves in the arrangements put in place, so much so that they have had to stop their activity or find themselves on the brink of the abyss. I would point out that the seriousness of the situation could have been mitigated if you had not removed the parliamentary reserve...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u18	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u19	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u20	... – I know that the draftsman shares my opinion and I welcome it. It was something important, a connection to the territory. We could give 2000 or 3000 euros to associations to allow them to hold.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u21	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u22	Contrary to what was said a few years ago, it was not an electoral instrument, but simply a link with our fellow citizens. I believe that many of our colleagues regret the parliamentary reserve, especially since it has been replaced by something too complicated.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u23	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u24	You are proposing an increase in the budget for the Sport, Youth and Associative Life mission, which we can only welcome. If economic recovery is more than necessary, the associative revival must not be forgotten, as the services rendered to society are enormous. The implementation of the pass'sport has come at an opportune time; Unfortunately, the lack of experimentation and impact assessment for the implementation of this tool has led to an over-sizing of the envelope, which should again this year leave millions of euros unused. This is a shame, as these funds would be useful in supporting sport practice among young people and the most disadvantaged. While many aid schemes ended last July, the revival of associations must continue without necessarily focusing on jobs or digitalisation and helping the smallest actors, because they are the poorest in the face of the crisis. In line with what the IDU and independent group presented during the examination of the first part of the PLF, I propose to draw up part of the insurance capitalisation reserves with the aim of financing an outsourced aid plan for the benefit of the smallest associations. I recall that such a levy has already been introduced temporarily in 2011; Its reactivation for one year would give a real boost to the community. In addition, you know our group's commitment to sport. I have proved this in recent years on a personal basis, with my proposal to levy 5% on transfers between professional sports clubs to allow redistribution to amateur clubs. Again, the goal was the same: by supporting amateur sports clubs, we wanted to help smaller structures.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u25	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u26	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u27	It is vital to recall the importance of sport in certain territories and the help it can provide to our children through all the values found in it. The social ambition of sport was embodied this year by the Grenelle de l'éducation et de l'inclusion parti le sport, under the leadership of the Mayor of Garges-lès-Gonesse, Benoît Jimenez. While the Government has been deaf to certain advice and reports on city policy, I hope you will hear this appeal from the actors on the ground, who tell you loud and clear that sport is an opportunity for our neighbourhoods.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u28	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u29	In order to fully play this role of integration and emancipation, it is essential to assist associations in the priority areas of city policy, while training professionals dedicated to inclusion through sport. That is the meaning of amendments that we will propose to you. [[Mrs. Agnes Thill applauds]] Let me quickly return to the goals set by the President of the Republic for the Olympic and Paralympic Games of 2024. Top five, I think we're all dreaming of it in this Chamber. This goal can only be achieved if we help our athletes by developing better reception conditions, and above all by supporting small associations in our cities and villages, because it is our volunteers and small associations that allow the emergence of our greatest champions – it is important not to forget it. [[Applause on the benches of the IDU-I and LR groups. – Mrs. Géraldine Bannier also applauds]] You will have understood that, as parliamentarians of the UDI Group and independents, we will remain attentive and vigilant to the evolution of the debates so that they can really lead to concrete and useful solutions for our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u30	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u31	With the budget of the Sport, Youth and Associative Life mission, it is not only about performance but also about social ties and solidarity. The health crisis has put our model to the test. Twenty months after the outbreak began, we see the damage to our associations, to our sports clubs, to our territories and to our youth. It is necessary to re-establish such a precious social bond. As we celebrate the 120th anniversary of the 1901 Act this year, we must remember how essential the associations are in our society, which contribute to the dynamism of our territories, which contribute to improving access to culture and sport for all, to promoting the identity of the territories. Associations are in trouble. It is increasingly difficult to find volunteers, and the crisis has exacerbated this phenomenon. To support the associative model, we need a new breath; we need to better value the associative experience, we need proximity. However, the additional appropriations in this area are mainly directed towards the UNS. We also note disparities in the regional and departmental variations of the Fund for the Development of Associative Life. Parliamentarians will be able to sit next year, even if this organization does not have the flexibility of the parliamentary reserve mechanism, which it has replaced. Among the associations destabilized by the crisis are sports clubs. Restriction of practices, cancellation of events and the health pass resulted in a 30% drop in licensees and a drop in their resources. In this context, our group called for the introduction of a pass'sport. We welcome the Government's efforts in this regard, but the mechanism is cumbersome and is likely to be significantly less utilized than planned because of its complexity and redundancy with similar local arrangements. We have heard your commitment, Madam Minister Delegate, to maintain unconsumed credits for sport, but we do not see the translation in this PLF. We have tabled an amendment to that effect. I know how you listen to parliamentarians, including those of the opposition; I have no doubt that our concerns will hold your attention and find a solution. We take note of the €6.7 million line in the ANS budget, which is itself financed by a redeployment of appropriations within the Agency's scope, as well as the decrease in the number of staff of INSEP, the National Institute for Sport, Expertise and Performance. I believe that the Government will propose amendments to correct this defect. Our group reiterates its concerns in a context marked by the low revenues associated with television rights: we continue to insist on the under-calibration of the Buffet tax allocated to the ANS, whose yield will be 45 million in 2022 and not 74 million as expected. Less than three years from the Olympic and Paralympic Games in Paris, this concern is legitimate. I mean, there's youth. The bulk of the funding for youth concerns the UNS, which does not seem to meet its objective of social and cultural diversity. Early assessments show that it is difficult to reach young people from modest backgrounds. More broadly, we believe that it is essential to rethink the many youth-friendly schemes rather than to pile up expensive but little-known tools and to multiply the often contradictory announcements about a possible income of commitment for young people. If we recognize an increasing budget, we find it difficult to correct the backlog. We expect real momentum for youth, associative life and the sports world. [[Applause on the benches of the LT group. – Mr Dino Cinieri also applauds]] Finally, I would like to thank you, Madam Minister responsible for sports, for your active participation: without you, the bill to freeze football matches on May 5 would never have been passed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u32	Mr Michel Larive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u33	Finally a little lucidity!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u34	In all humility!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u35	Behind the dissatisfaction of the majority and the Government with the budget for the Sport, Youth and Associative Life mission, it must be considered that a large part of the budget is captured by the Olympic and Paralympic Games, the universal national service and civic service. The Olympic project is carried out without consultation with the inhabitants, and even in contradiction with them, in view of the numerous citizen mobilizations of recent months: in Aubervilliers, 4000 square meters of workers' gardens have been destroyed; In Dugny, 80 per cent of the dwellings will be in ownership at market prices, while the median income is lower than the SMIC, with the immediate consequence of gentrification of neighbourhoods. The universal national service could have been a major citizen action; It's not. However, we have proposed an upgrade of the young people who have dropped out of the school system, a comprehensive health check, an easy access to the examination of the driver's licence, a remuneration at the SMIC... None of our suggestions have been accepted for four years, leaving room for an inconsequential arrangement. As for civic service, it places young people in a situation of great insecurity. The net monthly allowance for this scheme is barely half the poverty line. In addition, the newspaper Le Monde reveals that civic services are "often used to the detriment of paid employment in a sector where hiring is rare", such as that of culture. This is why youth organisations want to create young jobs with at least equal pay to SMIC. I support this proposal, because there are many needs. Thus, if we put aside the 295.65 million allocated to the Olympic and Paralympic Games of 2024, the 110 million for the universal national service and the 498.8 million for the civic service, there is only 710 million credits left for sport, youth and associative life in this budget, leaving little left to act effectively towards amateur sport and associations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u36	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u37	[[Caroline Fiat, Dino Cinieri and Maxime Minot applaud]] The associations are also left behind for this budget, with a decrease in the appropriations allocated to popular education and a stagnation in the allocations to the Fund for the Development of Associative Life, which can be assimilated to a decrease in the light of inflation. Yet they have suffered enormously from the crisis; They are of indisputable public benefit when it comes to feeding students, organizing self-help in the neighbourhoods, ensuring the supply of the most landlocked people in our territory, etc. This finance bill, like the previous one, is a missed opportunity to focus on amateur sport. Yet, without amateur sport, we will not have champions at the Olympic Games. In order to support amateur sport throughout the country, we have made many concrete proposals over the past four years. You have rejected the deflation of the Buffet tax and the increase of the taxes on sports betting. Today, the majority group decided to table an amendment and to inject 200 million, spread over three years, in favour of local sports facilities. What an excellent initiative! But these are very late announcements, which are surprisingly close to the election deadlines of 2022. In fact, for this finance bill, you find all the funding you missed in previous years. Surprising, isn't it? After the poor results of Tokyo, you have noticed the sporting catastrophe that awaits us for Paris 2024. Yet you have ignored our warnings about the massive challenge of the technical and sports advisers (CTS) to the announcement of their detachment. In Tokyo, Minister Blanquer announced the preservation of the workforce. That's not true: the CTS are only 1450, compared to 1650 five years ago.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u38	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u39	The direct consequence of this decline is the weakening of the quality of state support for high-level sport. You have also forgotten the recommendation made by my colleague Bertrand Sorre and myself in our 2021 report on the National Sport Agency concerning the under-representation of the sports movement, rural communes and small communes in regional sports conferences. In our debate in committee last week, all our proposals were rejected: you reject the creation of young jobs, but also the youth autonomy allowance, which would allow young people to receive a monthly allowance to live in dignity and thus avoid cumulating several jobs in parallel with their studies. It is essential to increase subsidies to associations, which were widely sought during the health crisis; You refuse it, too. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] Madam Deputy Minister, despite your communication efforts, it is clear that this finance bill, like the previous one, is far from the historic announcements promised and far from long-term planning of sports policy, particularly towards amateur sport. For all these reasons, we will again vote against the appropriations for this budgetary mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u40	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u41	You're going to take a second lesson!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u42	The gradual resumption of collective activities has led to many sporting initiatives in our territories. Each of them makes us see the joy of being together, of resuming the path of activities in common after months not being able to do sport regularly and together. It is one thousand miles from the statements of the President of the Republic at the reception of the Olympic and Paralympic medallists after the Tokyo Olympics, which transforms sport into a start-up dedicated to performance only.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u43	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u44	Against this, we defend a sports model for all. The President said he wanted to focus on a few athletes and some sports with a high potential for medals. It effectively excludes the vast majority of top French sportsmen and women who, let us recall, do not even win the SMIC. We defend a sport model and a vision of unitary sport that establishes a strong link between professional, amateur, high-level and local clubs. For many years, we have called for the creation of a full-function sports ministry, as sport is a public service in its own right; But this practice has a cost, and the budget is not on the table. While the 2022 budget for sports shows an increase of 27% from the original 2021 finance law, this increase is in line with the 2024 Olympic and Paralympic Games. At constant scope, the increase in the sport budget is not 27%, but 6%, and this increase does not catch up with the budget cuts made at the beginning of the quinquennium. Cities in popular constituencies, which mainly finance sport, are strangled by budget cuts. They must be helped to support clubs and develop sports practice. The champions of tomorrow are in the clubs of our cities, which need important investments to develop everyone's access to sport and support high-level sport. In this sense, the sport pass provided for the 5.4 million children whose home is eligible for the back-to-school allowance or the education allowance of the disabled child is a positive measure. After a quick calculation, however, we note that it would take €270 million for all eligible children to benefit from it. Either the Government expects an extremely large non-use of this aid, or the State will lack money to finance it. In both cases, this is not satisfactory. [[Caroline Fiat applauds]] The universal national service is continuing its development with a view to its generalization; In 2022, at least 50,000 young volunteers will be welcomed, for a budget of 110 million euros. We have been opposed to the UNS since its inception. In our view, this mechanism is not adapted to the needs of young people and it gives too military a dimension to citizen engagement. To sum up, in uniform, we prefer popular education. Finally, in this budget, the civic service receives almost 70% of the funds from the Youth and Associative Life programme. This can be attractive to young people thinking about their future, but we are again alerting them to its deviousness, which is far too important. While it was intended to allow the integration of young people without a diploma or training, it is increasingly used as a cache-sex to mask the damage of the Coursup procedure. According to official announcements, only 239 bachelors would meet this year without posting at the end of the year. It's a dark joke, because most of those who didn't get an assignment went to the civic service! Civic service is also used to mask unemployment, which is considerable among young people. Thus, we must ask the question of the means of control of the National Civic Service Agency in order to combat jobs disguised as civic service and to think about a real framework of this system, as has been the case for the supervision of trainees. The path is not over, in either case. I will finish my speech with a word of support for the teachers of EPS – physical education and sports – who are mobilising against the abolition of posts. They promote school sport, which allows the farthest segments of the sport to engage in regular sports activity, but also to include sport in an educational course. Their role is important in supporting young people who are experiencing a major crisis, both because of the sedentary and unequal access that the covid has accentuated. [[Applause on the benches of groups FI and LR. – Mr Bertrand Pancher also applauds]] For all these reasons, and for the great reluctance to do so, we will vote against the funds of the Sport, Youth and Associative Life mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u45	Mr Bertrand Sorre has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u46	For the last time in the quinquennium, we are examining in this Chamber the appropriations for the Sport, Youth and Associative Life mission. Our majority can be proud of its record,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u47	That's a very bad start!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u48	... in particular, measures taken to promote youth, sport and engagement during these five years. Indeed, the appropriations allocated to them for the year 2022 increase by 18.81%, or 256 million euros, compared with the 2021 finance law. In addition to these appropriations, the €270 million granted under the Recovery Plan. Two sectors benefit from this: youth and associative life, with, for example, the creation of positions funded by FONJEP and the strengthening of civic service; sport, to accompany the energy renovation of equipment, support for job creation and the digital transformation of sports federations. In the course of the parliamentary term, the appropriations allocated to this mission will have increased by 72 per cent; excluding the Olympic and Paralympic Games 2024 program, the increase is 40%. The Mission's appropriations, which amounted to 900 million euros in 2017, stood at 1.6 billion euros for 2022. What a beautiful evolution! This significant budget increase demonstrates, if necessary, the willingness of the Government and the majority to make sport, community engagement and youth a priority of the quinquennium. The additional resources allocated to these programmes have three objectives. The first is aimed at fostering youth engagement and associative action. The budget for programme 163 is therefore increased to €772 million, an increase of 11.37 %. In this way, the Government continues the course it launched in 2017 by deploying the UNS, strengthening the civic service and renewing the "one young, one mentor" scheme. These first two schemes account for 70% of the increase in programme appropriations, excluding the recovery plan, between 2017 and 2022. By the end of the quinquennium, no less than 70000 young people will have benefited from the UNS and the annual number of young people on civic service will have increased from 120,000 in 2017 to 200000 in 2022. As for the "one young, one mentor" scheme deployed in 2021, it will be renewed for 2022 with a renewed funding of 27 million euros. Based on the model of "1 young person, 1 solution", it aims to allow the support of 200,000 young people by a mentor next year. Finally, the FDVA, for which we have all fought for five years, will be strengthened in 2022. Its appropriations will reach EUR 50.6 million and will make it possible to finance associations, so expensive and so useful to our territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u49	Why did you delete the parliamentary reserve, then?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u50	Moreover, we will give a favourable opinion to the Government's amendment to include in the ordinary law that associations receive a 20 per cent share of the funds from the inactive accounts. The second objective is to develop sport practice for all and to support high-level sport. The appropriations for the 219 programme are therefore an increase of 26.69 % over 2021. The introduction of the sports pass from the beginning of the school year of 2021 demonstrates the Government's willingness to encourage sport from an early age. We also want to reduce inequalities in access to sport; the envelope allocated to this scheme will be renewed for 2022, amounting to EUR 100 million. I insist: in addition to democratizing sports practice, the sport pass provides strong support to the sports community, which has been very affected by the health crisis and only asks to renew its mission of promotion and social inclusion through sport. The Government also makes the choice to support high-level sport by extending the missions and resources allocated to the ANS. At the dawn of the Olympic and Paralympic Games of 2024, it is important to strengthen France's position among the major sports nations and to promote the professional integration of high-performance athletes. The third objective of this mission is to ensure the proper preparation of the Games and to secure the delivery of Olympic works. Thus, efforts in preparation are intensified, in line with the planned trajectory, with an increase in appropriations of €62 million. Finally, I welcome the recent announcements by the President of the Republic concerning the creation of 5000 new sports facilities throughout the national territory, particularly in the overseas regions. The majority will defend an amendment to ensure the financing of these announcements through a development plan of €200 million spread over three years, including €100 million from 2022 onwards. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] The parliamentary majority fully subscribes to the objectives pursued through this budgetary mission, and the Group of the European People's Party on the move will vote unanimously and with great conviction for all these appropriations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u51	Mr Maxime Minot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u52	I do not wish to play the caricatural role of a permanent and sterile opposition.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u53	It's true it's not your style!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u54	This is neither the place nor the time. Some guidelines are in the right direction, others are in the wrong direction. We owe the truth to the French we represent; For this, what better allies than numbers and facts? Because the devil hides in the details. Let's go back to each of the three programs. [[Michel Zumkeller applauds]] Let me start with Program 163, Youth and Associative Life, which is particularly close to my heart after seeing so many volunteers working with courage to safeguard our living together during the health crisis. To reward them, no doubt, the amount of the FDVA remains stable, despite the strong need for funding from the associations, indispensable to create a social bond while it is more distended than ever.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u55	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u56	As every year, we denounce its under-sizing, compared to the parliamentary reservation that you removed out of ignorance and dogmatism.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u57	Ah, the parliamentary reserve...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u58	We note, however, that for the first time, the Government seems to have acknowledged half-wordly that it was wrong, since the annex to the Veterans' Mission, memory and ties with the nation indicates that an allocation for operating grants to associations of €310,000 is planned to "address the size of the grant applications found since the abolition of the parliamentary reserve in 2018. It is a confession, a reversal.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u59	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u60	I fully share the reservations expressed by the draftsman on the complexity of the FDVA and its added value. On the other hand, the universal national service, to which I am in favour, is largely oversized in relation to the reality of needs. The appropriations are stable, while the objectives are clearly unachievable. Emmanuel Macron had announced that he would benefit 150,000 young people in 2021. Finally, they were ten times fewer. Perhaps it would have been useful to transfer some of these unused credits to associations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u61	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u62	In general, there is a need for a lack of coherence in youth policies, given the ever-increasing number of mechanisms and the absence of a comprehensive Government strategy. After the label "1 young person, 1 solution", which actually covers a multitude of different tools, the recent creation of a mentoring scheme – which has not given rise to a prior consultation with the associations – is a new example. The 350 program is intended to fund the Olympic and Paralympic Games. Following strong increases in its appropriations, this PLF is unsurprisingly beginning to reduce commitment authorities and stabilize the level of payment appropriations. Like the draftsman, I welcome the rigour of the Olympic Games Organizing Committee – OCOG – in preparing for the Games, as the impact of the health crisis seems to be under control and the financial trajectory respected. It is now up to the OCOG and the SOLIDEO – the Olympic Works Delivery Corporation – to continue their efforts to keep the commitment of an exemplary sobriety of the Paris Games in budgetary terms. I wonder, however, about action 05 of the programme, abounded for the first time in this PLF, which aims to finance "13 studies decided by the Government". We will not fail to hold to account on this matter. I'm going to program 219, Sport. Its credits remained stable between 2020 and 2021, after a sharp increase due to the integration of the remuneration of sports technical advisers. Like Mr Larive, I recall Mr Blanquer's commitment in Tokyo to preserve their staff, which is a new unfulfilled promise. In five years, the number of STCs would have increased from 1650 to 1450; It is a weakening of the state framework of high-level sport and for all. In the PLF for 2022, the National Sports Agency – which replaces the Ministry of Sport in a large part of its remit, I would like to remind you – receives an additional 10 million credits. We also note the slight increase in the INSEP budget. In addition, I can only approve the increase, even a timid one, in funding for the prevention and protection of athletes, aimed in particular at preventing and combating incivilities, violence and discrimination. You know my commitment to fighting these, whatever they are. In fact, the main increase in this budget for 2022 relates to the appropriations of the pass'sport scheme, created in the Financial Amendment Act of 19 July 2021 and maintained in this text. As has been pointed out on several occasions, the sport pass allows some children to receive financial assistance to practice sport. The scheme, currently worth EUR 100 million, could eventually be extended to 18-20 years, given the lack of sports activity during the pandemic. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Mr Bertrand Pancher and Mrs Caroline Fiat also applaud]] The need for sport has never been so strong in French society, whether it is to practice it or to live it in another way: we have measured it widely during confinements, it has taken on particular importance in our lives. Vector of well-being and actor of social cohesion, he is at the origin of intense collective emotions, like those we all hope to live in France, first on the occasion of the Rugby World Cup in 2023, then, a year later, at the Olympic and Paralympic Games in Paris in 2024.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u63	The Minister for Sport has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u64	I am very pleased to mention before you the last budget of the legislature allocated to sport. It is an ambitious and unprecedented budget. As an increase of 22%, it allows us to reach a historical level of 987 million euros, and even to exceed one billion if we include the CAS (special-purpose account) Pensions. Of course, the political game leads you to say that this is not enough.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u65	It's not a game!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u66	As a former high-level sportsman and associative leader, I too believe that we are never doing enough for sport and that the budget could be even more than millions. Nevertheless, it is up to a true public policy of sport, which you now seem – as in previous years – to want to minimize at all costs. Together, we have helped to take on and strengthen this public sport policy: with the law of 1 August 2019, passed by a large majority, on the creation of the National Sports Agency, which allows the Ministry to devote itself fully to its regal missions; with a bill adopted last March by your assembly at the initiative of the majority, which gives assumed, more democratic orientations to the sports movement; with a third law adopted this summer which, by enshrining republican principles, allows the sport to relay the promise of a united Republic in its diversity and to commit itself to the protection of the integrity of practitioners and against community drifts through reinforced delegation contracts. For all this, I would just like to say thank you. This new budget guarantees the continuation of new actions launched during the legislature. It reflects our conviction that access to sport must be a right for all, in all territories, with the strengthening of federal sport projects and territorial sport projects. It illustrates our concern for the purchasing power of the French, with the pass'sport measure. It reflects the commitment of the Ministry of Sports to subjects that concern the French in their everyday lives: the education of children, thanks to an unprecedented collaboration with the Ministry of National Education and the Ministry of Youth; a better recognition of the players in education through sport; access to more sports equipment, specifically in cared for areas; access to more recognized and valued sports trades, to which more young people will be directed. This budget also contributes to the development of people with disabilities, to the improvement of the health of our fellow citizens through the practice of appropriate physical activities and to that of their parents, for whom they hope for the longest possible life in the greatest possible autonomy. This is the priority legacy of the organisation of the Olympic and Paralympic Games in France in 2024. I cannot therefore hear that the budget that you are going to vote is rising because of the Games: it is rising thanks to the Games and thanks to the legacy that I want – and that the Government demands – that these Games embody. The health crisis, which has upset our lives and all our activities, is not yet behind us. Therefore, we must all maintain our vigilance. I wanted to say again how much I measure the damage, doubts and anxieties that have gripped every link in the sport chain in recent months. The speakers who spoke highlighted the 7 billion in support of all types of sports practices, whether they were amateur sports, professional sports or so-called commercial practices. No one can come back on it and say it didn't exist: it existed, we were there at all times. This was essential for a growing sector whose crisis has strengthened its importance. See this budget as a reflection of a real general awareness: sport is essential in our lives. It is now seen as a solution for all these public policies, at the local level as well as at the national level. And where this is not yet the case, we have to send this message. We still have three years to change the place of sport in our society and it is together that we will succeed. Sport is also a unique catalyst of emotions; It is also the resilience of society as a whole. I want to have a special word for the officers of the Ministry of Sport, the Directorate of Sports, the Deconcentrated Services, the National Sports Agency and our institutions. I would also like to thank the federations, the voluntary leaders of the clubs, their employees, the coaches and the athletes, for keeping good during the crisis: thank you for being present during the months of forced closure of the associations; Thank you for having been present in Tokyo and in the major sporting events held in France and elsewhere in the world; Thank you also for having been present at our children's back-to-school sports in September. Thanks to the sanitary pass, safe recovery has been possible. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] This budget is also interested in the future. The future is the demand for sport, with the pass'sport. The future is also the need to look at the limiting factors of the sports offer, as the sports equipment plan does, on which you are going to vote for an amendment. The future is finally the Games in France, an opportunity to showcase our model that encourages sport for all and nourishes our pool of champions – I am obviously aware of this, since I am the first concerned. This model is embodied by the STCs, whose numbers will be stabilized in 2022. It is an ethical and integral sport that we intend to promote during the French Presidency of the Council of the European Union, during the Olympic Games and this year, since it is at the heart of the new delegation campaign between the State and the sports federations, in order to join us collectively in an approach of progress towards an even more responsible sport.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u67	The Secretary of State for Youth and Engagement has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u68	The Youth and Associative Life Programme for which I am responsible brings together only part of the funds allocated to young people in all its diversity, in all its moments of transition, but also in the associative fabric. Public policy for youth is fundamentally a partnership: it is based on several ministries and budgets; It is built in connection with decentralized services, associations, local and regional authorities, and in full collaboration with the voluntary sector. Acting for young people means taking into account its extreme diversity according to the places of life, the difficulties encountered, the moments shared with the family, which leads us to bring a multiplicity of answers. Funding for youth, commitment, popular education and associative life amounted to more than €772 million in 2022. I wanted to recall this figure and its increase, as Maud Petit did. They cover two main areas, which I would like to detail while respecting the time allotted to me. First of all, they correspond to a strong mobilization for young people – to guide them towards autonomy, but also to fight against the non-use of social rights and information. They also accompany, in various forms, the resumption and development of associative life, which were welcomed by all the speakers who spoke. The Youth and Associative Life programme covers only a partial part of the nation's effort: today, the state is driving, accompanying innovations, developing and relying on all the living forces. I will highlight three emblematic measures: universal national service, development of civic service and support for mentoring. These three measures have a meaning, because they are linked: they accompany a course of citizenship of the young person. Why amplify the universal national service? Because it is aimed at young girls and boys between the ages of 15 and 17, it is primarily aimed at increasing the sense of nationhood, the sense of unity necessary to live common values and to convey the taste of commitment. As the Special Rapporteur pointed out, the universal national service was built with popular education: one third of its mentors came from it. They do not oppose, Mrs Faucillon, uniform and popular education; they participate in the writing of the universal national service. Of course, it is still an experiment and it is evolving, it is a certainty, but I will never oppose popular and uniform education. Young firefighters – I'm thinking of some cadets – experience another form of engagement, without hierarchy in any cause. The universal national service encourages this feeling and taste for commitment. He was greeted by Mr Castellani, who said how many stories and heritages in each territory are shared by our youth. It is to accompany each of them that the universal national service was developed, before its generalization. This year, more than 50,000 young volunteers will be welcomed, with increased human support in each territory, as more than eighty heads of UNS centres have been recruited. We will continue to strengthen the civic service, which has been popularized by young people. As Mr. Bournazel pointed out, civic service allows every young person to live a period of commitment. It also allows for a mix and will benefit from a budget increase of 498 million. The civic service accompanies the mentoring plan. This is indeed a journey: young people need these times of encounter. The "1 young, 1 solution" plan, Mr.Minot, was built with the associations and with the mentoring collective during consultations and as part of a portage by several associations. 27 million is allocated to the fight against self-censorship, inequality and discrimination, in complementarity with State services. People's education, along with national education, enables the development of autonomy and citizenship, and provides 17 million in support to associations, network heads and national coordination. As you all said, associations are the real lung of our territories. They are diverse and the priority of priorities was to accompany the smallest of them. That is why the Fund for the Development of Associative Life is worth 50 million. It has been reinforced by amendments adopted by Parliament allowing for inactive accounts, but also providing absolutely essential support to volunteers, thanks to training of course – 14.4 million for citizen engagement. FDVA 1 "Volunteer Training" amounts to more than 8 million and further strengthens training. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem and LaREM groups]] The most important thing, Mr. Pancher, is to simplify the lives of associations so that volunteers can devote themselves to the core of their activities. Our goal is to deploy the "Tell us once" strategy, so that associations do not have to provide the same information on several occasions. It is the responsibility of the State services to facilitate their administrative life, including the "asso account" or Data subventions. The latter aims to simplify access to subsidies and to facilitate the relationship with administrations, so that associations can concentrate on their main activity: the creation of social ties, and nothing else.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u69	We come to the questions. Let me remind you that the time limit for questions and answers is two minutes. Mrs Sophie Mette has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u70	Last week, we exchanged in committee about the Sport, Youth and Associative Life mission. The Group of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats already welcomed the substantial funds allocated to it, as well as the way in which they were allocated. My intervention will concern Action 01, which concerns the promotion of sport for as many people as possible. More than €190 million has been allocated to it; It's more than double the amount voted in the original finance law for 2021. The financial effort of the State in favour of the necessary deployment of sports practice in France is, for next year, colossal. It is largely about the rise in power of an unprecedented device, announced a year and a half ago by the President of the Republic: the pass'sport. This consists of a flat-rate financial aid of EUR 50 paid by the State to an association to reduce the cost of registering a child for a sporting activity. It is a crucial support, both for families and for sports associations, much expected in the context of the health crisis that has affected them so much. [[Applause on several benches of the Dem group]] The only problem with the pass'sport is its under-utilization. How can we not regret that some sports associations do not mobilise it when it is a formidable tool? This situation is sometimes linked to the need to create a specific account, called the "asso account", to benefit from the funds. Some federations report that for old and small associations, registration on the platform can be difficult. This is, we will all agree, a waste that can only be deplored, particularly in rural areas such as the one from which I came, which has many small associations. Madam Deputy Minister, I know your commitment to a sport practice that is widespread across all territories. Do you intend to facilitate access to the pass'sport anywhere in the city, overseas, in urban areas and especially in rural areas?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u71	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u72	I referred earlier to the future which will be concerned with the demand for sport. It is true that we have realized the prowess of deploying the pass'sport in three months. We designed it with the sports movement and local and regional authorities. It is in full deployment: 670,000 young people have benefited from it in nearly 40,000 associations. These have been registered by the "asso account" platform, which offers an easy, efficient and simple approach, despite what is said about it. This is the reality: we offer individual support to each association that wishes to register to benefit from the pass'sport. The portal also provides access to other government funding. As Mrs El Haïry has said, we hope that it will soon become a one-stop shop to apply for all the grants offered to young people and in the field of sport. At the same time, we want to make the pass'sport system evolve into a permanent return sport allowance. This is already the case, since the 2021 budget was renewed in 2022. It will also provide a better understanding of one in two children's sports practices. Finally, the measure is intended to combat all forms of inequality; You can count on me to expand it to other structures and audiences. Our will – that of the President of the Republic – is to work finely on the demands for sport. This has never been done: sports policies, whether emanating from the state or the communities, always concern sports provision, especially structures. From now on, we will do as some communities do, working on the basis of the demands and opportunities that certain families have to adopt a sport practice, when they do not, especially because they do not have the financial and cultural means to do so. The State wishes to make a firm commitment to this process.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u73	Mr Michel Zumkeller has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u74	My colleagues, Agnes Thill and Béatrice Descamps, join me in my question. On 14 October, the President of the Republic announced the creation of 5000 sports fields in the next three years, including 1000 multi-sports fields, 1000 dojos and more than 200 mobile fields. You will defend in a few moments an amendment which tends to finance more than EUR 100 million in payment appropriations for next year, as well as 200 million in commitment authorisations, in order to ensure the fulfilment of this promise. I wonder about the management of this envelope, which will be entrusted to the National Sport Agency. What level of community will be the first contact of the NSA? The President of the Republic wishes to build equipment at the foot of the buildings. We recognize that the priority neighbourhoods of city policy (QPV) lack sports facilities. However, we must not forget rural areas: small towns and communities of communes that have no equipment must also be heard. [[Applause on the benches of the IDU-I group. – Mr. Dino Cinieri also applauds]] We wonder about the already defined nature of the land. We have no doubt that there is a shortage of basketball fields three to three, but the most basic or modular equipment is lacking in some territories. Are your choices already stopped? Shouldn't the policy of creating new land in rural areas be concentrated?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u75	The Minister for Sport has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u76	This announcement follows an ambitious plan for the construction of equipment: the budget has been multiplied three times in three years, thanks to the appropriations of the recovery plan and the marked willingness to build different equipment: dedicated to a defined practice, they will be destined to be driven by sports associations and to catch up with the delays in the territories cared for, in particular the QPV and the rural territories. The Special Rapporteur referred earlier to his report to the Government and the President of the Republic. I would add that the Government and ANS have taken the initiative to fund mobile equipment, such as mobile pools to teach children swimming from an early age, especially in school. The sports equipment plan will be deployed in this context, taking much more account of the projects that the federations have in drawers, in close collaboration with the communities. They also have ideas for equipment that are not too expensive but are user-oriented, designed to capture free practice and move it towards an association-driven practice. This is the approach that we want to take with the Equipment Plan, which the State will finance to a large extent, in the amount of 50 to 80 %, through the Ministry of Sports, through the appropriations of the ANS.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u77	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u78	My colleague Elsa Faucillon quoted the statements of the President of the Republic at the ceremony in honour of the Olympic and Paralympic medallists at the Tokyo Games. They raised serious concerns about the future French sport model. The goal is to transform sport into a performance-only start-up, which would be limited to Olympic and Paralympic medals. This would be to concentrate resources on a few athletes and some sports with high medal potential, while the others would be abandoned, even though many high-performance athletes and athletes have very modest incomes. The English model would thus now inspire France's sports policy, with a high-level sport that is totally autonomous, focused on a few disciplines. This orientation is in contrast to the French sport unit that we advocate, based on a strong link between professional and amateur sport, between high-level sport and local clubs that irrigate our territories thanks to volunteer momentum. We do not have the same conception of what our sport model should be: we design it as a public service, at all levels of performance. This means providing significant support to sports federations and thousands of local associations. How do you intend to consolidate amateur sport? While the resources provided for in the text for sports are increasing, a significant part is devoted to the preparation of the Olympic Games. How can the State, without the Ministry of Full Exercise Sports...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u79	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u80	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] ... continue to develop a national public policy in favour of sport and maintain leadership and guidance, in particular to develop the diversification of practices or feminization?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u81	The Minister for Sport has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u82	Three years after hosting the Olympic and Paralympic Games in France, it is normal to increase the budget for high-level sport. Prior to the mandate of the President of the Republic, approximately EUR 50 million was allocated to him; With the amendment that will be voted on earlier, we will reach EUR 110 million. We do not take away anything from non-medalable athletes: on the contrary, we strengthen the means to ensure medals for the Tokyo medallists in 2024 and to allow hard-trained athletes to climb on the podium, giving them more resources and offering them tailor-made. You will not have escaped that, on the other hand, the budget allocated to the development of sport for all also increases. I have quoted the three laws that you have passed – the majority at least –: they have strengthened the prerogatives of the Ministry of Sports, so that it promotes a public policy that it assumes perfectly. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] I always hear that there is no more sports ministry, that his prerogatives have been transferred to the ANS. That's not true! The Agency does what the department did before. The number of staff in the Ministry of Sport has not decreased more than in other ministries: the figures you quote for the CTS are for all government ministries. Our workforce in human resources is stabilized, at the service of federations and a Ministry of Sport that has found a very useful and relevant vocation by moving closer to the Ministry of National Education. It's a new move. At the beginning of the quinquennium, it was a full ministry. By the will of the President of the Republic, in accordance with my wish, he was brought closer to the Ministry of National Education to create a public service for sport, in the service of the education of our children, from an early age, in the spirit inherited from the Olympic Games.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u83	Mrs Catherine Osson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u84	This is another certainty in the troubled period that we are experiencing: yesterday we did and tomorrow we will make support for our young people a priority of public action. Other budgetary missions illustrate this, with cross-cutting initiatives, including the "1 young person, 1 solution" plan, which falls under the responsibility of the Ministry of Labour; the creation of the youth guarantee; the reform of the driving licence; The 40,000 student housing plan. The Sport, Youth and Associative Life mission fully demonstrates our commitment in this area: appropriations have increased by 18.8 per cent compared to the initial finance law for 2021. Two of the priorities thus funded have received particular attention. The first aims to foster youth engagement and associative life, in particular through the deployment of the universal national service, the strengthening of civic service and the renewal of the "one young person, one mentor". The second aims to develop sports practice and to support high-performance sport, particularly with the deployment of the pass'sport in the fall of 2021. As elected from Wattrelos and Roubaix in the North, I have seen how the young people of modest backgrounds, who are experiencing difficult socio-economic situations, need our full attention and that of the public authorities, in connection with local elected officials. Here, in particular, the Republic cannot be merely an incantation: it must incarnate itself in order to demonstrate to these young people, from an early age, that they count and that they have a future of which they are the masters. With regard to the deployment of the SNU, the civic service and the pass'sport, can you tell us whether specific accompanying arrangements have been developed to reach the young people furthest from the public service? Are you already able to provide an initial feedback on the attractiveness and effectiveness of these devices for the young people in question?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u85	The Secretary of State for Youth and Engagement has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u86	To put the facts and figures in perspective, I stress first of all that social mix is the very objective of the UNS. It is more difficult to find children very far away or very disadvantaged, but it is difficult especially when the will to do so is lacking. Our goal is to look for young people who are not spontaneously willing to participate in a universal service like the one we offer. We work with local mission associations, with homes, with children's support associations. Of the young people who have participated in volunteering, 40 per cent come from the priority neighbourhoods of the city's policy or from the rural revitalization zones (ZRR), the latter being more numerous; 8% of young people live in QPV, but they are only 5% in the UNS: our goal is to reach the most diverse young people, to give everyone every opportunity. One of the wealth of the scheme comes from the highest proportion of girls than boys – 56%. Give the taste of commitment, increase the scope of possibilities, break glass ceilings: this is the UNS project. With regard to civic service, 20 per cent of the 132,000 young people who did so last year were without qualifications, in a situation of drop-out, school or social; 26% were inactive. That is to say, how much the scheme offers a new chance for social and then professional integration, since it puts it back on its feet. In addition, 39% of participants were job-seekers. However, in the six months following civic service, 35% of them find employment because they regain confidence and feel pride: some barriers that hinder their momentum are lifted. Finally, the social mix objective helps to encourage engagement: 32% of young people had a volunteer mission before their mission; 58% want to continue a long-term commitment to an association.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u87	Mr Dino Cinieri has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u88	Thanks to our permanences, I, together with Mrs Sylvie Bonnet, echo the Loire department, especially sports clubs. Since March 2020, there has been a significant decrease in the number of licensees. Former licensees were unable to practice their sport regularly in 2020 and 2021 due to confinements; they feared further restrictive measures and did not renew their licence. The former unvaccinated lay-offs also did not take over, not to mention minors over the age of 12 whose parents were opposed to vaccination. After almost two years without financial resources, usually from buvettes and raffles in demonstrations and competitions, clubs are extremely concerned, as are local volunteers and elected officials. It is the survival of our clubs that is at stake, as well as the cohesion and vitality of our territories, because sports associations have a fundamental role of social bonding beyond the benefits of sport itself. Our citizens of all ages must be encouraged to do sport. However, if clubs close for lack of resources, their sports practice will fall further. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] You removed the parliamentary reserve that allowed us to support local clubs. Why? Indeed, the FDVA is very clearly insufficient. I had tabled an amendment to provide for the creation of 2,000 assisted jobs in sports associations, which the disappearance of assisted contracts has greatly affected – the integration of young people into territories where the presence of the State has been limited. Unfortunately, it was declared inadmissible under article 40; I'm sorry. What are you going to do to support clubs and their so many volunteers?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u89	Bravo! Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u90	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u91	Mr Cinieri, I am pleased to inform you that your amendment is satisfactory, since the State's recovery plan has made it possible to finance an additional 2000 jobs compared to the 5000 jobs initially provided for. We have also, of course, helped all associations employing employees, thanks to all the measures of common state aid – as I said, we have released €7 billion for amateur, professional and commercial sport, a large part of which for the first one. As for associations that do not employ employees, we have allocated EUR 15 million twice, via the ANS budget, to support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u92	That's very little!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u93	I agree with you that there has been a decrease in the number of layoffs, since no competition was held last year. Nevertheless, the number of club memberships has almost risen to the level of the new year 2019 – as we have seen in the associations' forums – and even surpassed it. The members return to the clubs, thanks in particular to the pass'sport, which allows a reduction of 50 euros, and the help of the communities and the town halls. The limiting factors are, in fact, access to equipment, the number of volunteer mentors – who have been able to find work elsewhere or have moved away from clubs – and the number of volunteers who usually supervised and managed these associations. With Sarah El Haïry and the rest of the Government, we are thinking about a strong and visible action on volunteerism in France. Sarah El Haïry has made many proposals in this regard and some schemes are already substantially funded. We need to study how to decline them in the field of sport to allow more volunteers to invest in this type of function. Rest assured: fortunately, people have returned to associations to do sport!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u94	I call the credits of the Sport, Youth and Associative Life mission, listed in state B. I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 1280 and 1301. On identical amendments Nos 1280 and 1301, I am seized by the groups The Republic on the move, the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats and act together on a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. The Minister-in-Office has the floor to support Amendment No. 1280.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u95	I withdraw it in favour of Amendment No 1301 by Mr Christophe Castaner.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u96	Mrs Céline Calvez has the floor to support Amendment No. 1301.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u97	I am very honoured to present this amendment, co-signed by all the members of the three groups of the presidential majority, the Republic on the move, the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats and to act together. It aims to translate budgetaryly the announcements of the President of the Republic, Emmanuel Macron, to the Élysée or to the Seine-Saint-Denis, on 13 October last: 5000 amenities by 2024. We have mentioned on many occasions here the place of sports equipment. Recently, during the discussion of the bill to democratize sport in France, we have brought solutions to identify equipment, pool it and renovate it thanks to the France Relaunch Plan. It is also necessary to build them, because some territories have been cared for for a long time, and because sports practices are changing – we must invest in dojos as well as in mobile pools. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] While we have facilitated the sport of the youngest with the pass'sport, these 5000 equipments concern sport at all ages, for all and for all, in clubs, in free access and everywhere in France, in metropolis and overseas, in the city as well as in the countryside. This massive funding will make it possible to dispose of these 5000 equipments without waiting too long – within three years, before the Olympic and Paralympic Games in Paris in 2024. This amendment is therefore intended to finance a development plan of EUR 200 million spread over three years, of which EUR 100 million from 2022, with proximity as a priority and daily sports practice as a goal. We are proud to be able to contribute.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u98	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u99	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u100	Positive opinion, of course. I welcome this proposal by the President of the Republic for a number of reasons. First of all, this plan is unprecedented and it was missing from our action. Secondly, parliamentary work has borne fruit, while our fellow citizens sometimes wonder about the usefulness of our assembly; The Spring of Evaluation allows us to monitor our public policies in this regard. Finally, this amendment testifies to the co-construction work carried out with the ministry: our discussions allowed the mechanism to emerge. You referred, Mrs Calvez, to the territories that are being cared for – depending on the case, we are talking about QPV or ZRR. Let us not forget that the Ministry of Sports is now attached to the Ministry of National Education. There has been double inequality, on the one hand, with regard to leisure sports, and on the other hand with regard to national education, where in some primary schools or colleges, for example, there is a lack of sports facilities to practice the desired sport.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u101	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u102	Let me give you a few more details. Since the announcement of the President of the Republic, numerous requests have come to the Ministry of Sports. The proposed scheme is deployed by the ANS: EUR 100 million will be allocated to it in payment appropriations from 2022. The call for projects will have two components, one national and the other regional. As you said, Mrs Calvez, we hope that the construction of this equipment will be rapid. To this end, we draw on the expertise of federations and certain sports associations, which have ideas for standard equipment regarding the deployment and generalization of their sport practice. These proximity facilities do not cost billions or even millions of euros, but the State will finance them in a significant way: between 50% and 80% of the cost of the equipment will be borne by the Ministry; In the Overseas Territories, 100% of the cost of equipment will be borne by the State. Not only is this device new, but it responds to a need of the sports movement and territories. Sports associations, sports federations, departmental and regional leagues and communities will be eligible. The associations that run and manage these facilities are essential: the aim of the programme is to bring the young – and the least young – whose sport practice is free to a supervised practice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u103	Mr Maxime Minot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u104	[[Protests on the benches of the LaREM group]] To be frank with you, I am rather amused by this amendment, as by the fact that the Government withdraws an amendment which it had already tabled twice and which had been declared inadmissible: despite four years in power, we have the impression that the Government is still as amateur!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u105	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u106	Bad faith!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u107	Let him talk!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u108	In substance, of course, we can only support this amendment, since we support the development of local sports facilities. However, you are once again demonstrating the inseverity of your budget, because if it had been sincere, you would not have had to submit an amendment to change the budget that you have just defended in the gallery! [[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] In addition, the Government is again releasing the French cheque book to make a tax present in support of candidate Macron. Debt is no longer a problem, since the banknote board is spinning. For all these reasons, the Republicans Group will strongly oppose this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u109	Damn it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u110	Mr François Cormier-Bouligeon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u111	[[Protests on the benches of the SOC and FI groups]] [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Long protests on the benches of the LR and FI groups]] Those who truly love sport can only rejoice, because with 1 billion euros, the budget that the state devotes to the sector is very ambitious. Apart from the opposition and polemic professionals, everyone welcomes this amendment...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u112	Put your mask on your nose!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u113	... which is the result of a long work, started over four years ago. It aims to affirm that all sports policy,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u114	What an arrogance!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u115	It's a bad time for us to vote on the amendment!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u116	... notably the hosting of major international sporting events – the Rugby World Cup in 2023, the Paris Games in 2024 – aims to develop sport for all, throughout life, and to make France a sports nation. [[Brouhaha on various benches]] The purpose of this amendment is to finance 5000 community sports facilities.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u117	Listen to the speaker!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u118	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Exclaims on the SOC, FI and GDR benches]] [[Exclaims on the SOC, FI and GDR panels]] This is a great step forward, and we must thank the President of the Republic. "A country must be great by the quality of its youth, and this youth cannot be conceived without a sporting ideal," said General de Gaulle in the aftermath of the Olympic Games in Rome. Sport is indeed an engine of education, resilience...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u119	What's the matter with you, ladies and gentlemen? Someone says: Listen to him, even if you don't agree.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u120	... and learning about the values of the Republic. The local sports association is a whole, a place to learn sports...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u121	Thank you, my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u122	I can't argue, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u123	Colleagues complained above all about the fact that you were not wearing the mask, if I understood correctly.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u124	On the nose, the mask!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u125	The draftsman has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u126	I welcome this clarification: the announcement of the President of the Republic is formalized. However, let us avoid all these superlatives: we are talking about an unprecedented investment plan, while local and regional authorities invest each year the equivalent of €2 billion net, to which we must add about €3 billion for the operation and maintenance of these investments, which amounts to €5 billion per year. You're announcing 100 million euros: it's better than nothing, but it's not the case of the century! I know that politics often involves taking a little laundry to make a lot of money, but let us still keep a minimum of common sense, while of course we welcome this budget entry.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u127	I put to the vote Amendment No. 1301.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u128	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 55 Number of votes cast 53 Absolute majority 27 For adoption 48 Against 5
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u129	Mrs Agnes Thill has the floor to support Amendment No. 695.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u130	The best way to encourage the practice of sport by priority audiences and, in general, by the general public, is to encourage the creation and renovation of sports facilities in all territories. Indeed, it is difficult, in rural areas for example, to learn how to swim when the nearest swimming pool is only accessible after a long journey by public transport or 40 minutes by car. It is difficult to practice a sport when the only equipment in the municipality is a football stadium in poor condition, without changing rooms – I thank the volunteers who take care of it again. This is a reality experienced by many territories which are, in fact, far removed from sports practice since they are far removed from sports infrastructure. The amendment aims to allocate EUR 20 million to Action 01 Promotion of sport for the largest number of the 219 Sport programme, taking them from Action 06 Universal National Service of the 163 Youth and Associative Life Programme. The aim of the decrease in the amount of appropriations is to comply with the requirements of the Organization Act on Finance Laws, which provides that, when an amendment is made to increase the appropriations of one programme, it must reduce those of another programme. It is not envisaged to reduce the resources allocated to the UNS but to allocate funds to reduce inequalities in access to sports equipment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u131	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u132	This is an excellent amendment...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u133	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u134	... which has just been satisfied, since we will not allocate 20 million but 200 million, according to the amendment which we have just voted almost unanimously. I therefore express an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u135	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u136	I take this opportunity to correct what was said earlier. I am well aware that communities are investing a lot in equipment plans, but the amendment that has just been voted for provides for an unprecedented effort on the part of the state. Foreseeing the opening of EUR 100 million in payment appropriations, it fully responds to the purpose of your proposal, which mentions only EUR 20 million – a commitment that you already thought was unprecedented. Thanks to you and your vote, next year the Ministry of Sports will spend EUR 100 million on equipment, and we will work more with sports federations to ensure that these equipment meets the needs of practitioners.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u137	I call Mr Michel Larive to support Amendment No. 573.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u138	You have just voted on an amendment that goes our way, but you have prerogatives that we do not have. Indeed, you can align one or two hundred million over three years. It's very surprising that we found those moneys today when we were looking for them yesterday. You found them in 2022, election year... Finally, they will benefit citizens...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u139	There!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u140	...and I'm very happy about it. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I voted in favour of your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u141	Me too!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u142	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] We voted in favour! [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I do not withdraw Amendment No 573, as a matter of principle, but you have already accepted our requests. So, good for citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u143	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u144	So you're not taking it off? All right, everyone does what he wants! What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u145	I express an unfavorable opinion, but thank you for agreeing with the amendment that we voted for.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u146	The Minister-in-Office has the floor to support Amendment No. 1231.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u147	It aims to allocate an additional 10 million to support high-performance sports. As such, I would like to point out what Mr. Larrivé said earlier...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u148	No, no, not Mr. Larrivé!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u149	We have a Larrive and a Larive at home! They're not the same!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u150	... Excuse me, Mr. Larive. We did not wait for the results of the Tokyo Olympics to focus on the high performance budget as it has been gradually doubled in five years. Last year, it had already received an additional EUR 10 million. This year, $10 million will again be allocated to athletes to provide tailor-made support to help them succeed in this Olympic deadline. Nor did we wait for the election year to establish a budget programme for sports equipment. Last year we tripled the budget and this year we released an additional 100 million. We have allocated these funds gradually, and we have not decided to do so at the standstill. Today, with the health crisis, sports associations and federations need all the levers to get new sports practitioners.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u151	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u152	Favourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u153	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u154	Madam Deputy Minister, I have just listened carefully to you. If our group voted in favour of Mr Christophe Castaner's amendment,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u155	Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u156	...I would like to highlight the strength of our country in these Olympic Games. I want to talk to you about Steven Da Costa, our karate gold medallist this year, who is the pride of Lorraine, even of the Meurthe-et-Moselle. Nevertheless, at the 2024 Olympics in Paris, he will not be awarded a medal and it will be a less important medal for our country because karate is not recognized. I want to hear about amateur sport...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u157	[[Exclaims on the SOC benches]] Do you know a little about sports? We don't win sports for love!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u158	Dear colleague, if you don't like karate, that's your problem!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u159	I support karate, but don't say it's a medal less!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u160	In the meantime, I care about this subject. Madam Deputy Minister, we have the opportunity to win an additional gold medal in 2024 with karate – and, chauvinous as I am, I don't want anyone to give it up. In view of the amendment we have just voted on, what will you do for Steven Da Costa and for karate at the 2024 Olympic Games?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u161	We're not going to review all the champions. The draftsman has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u162	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u163	Madam Deputy Minister, we welcome this budget increase, but the real issue, as you know, is to coordinate the actions of the NSA with those of the INSEP. The NSA is now set up and will provide all the means for the training of high-level athletes, which was supervised by the INSP. Thus, the arrival of the ANS raises several questions. I have no doubt that you will ensure that everything is going well between these two organizations; Nevertheless, we need real political follow-up, so that the means are well used for the rise of high-level sport in our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u164	I call Mr Viry to support Amendment No. 506.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u165	It is intended to complement the one just adopted. Following the record of performance at the Tokyo Olympics and in response to the demands of the actors on the ground, which must be supported by meeting their needs, we must look kindly and encourage the departmental Olympic and Sports Committees (CDOS), which work in close contact with clubs and disciplines, and which are essential to sourcing. In recent years, CDOS has modernized by expanding its scope of expertise to include sport, health sport and sport performance. Beyond the amendment voted earlier in the run-up to the Paris Olympic and Paralympic Games, which establishes the regional performance houses and grants 10 million to support high-performance sports, I believe it is essential to strengthen each CDOS with a mission officer who will work as closely as possible to the realities and needs to meet the goal of excellence in order to radiate our country in 2024. We have a solid structure, CDOS; But they often suffer from a shortage of human resources. With this amendment, I ask you to consolidate them and allow them to participate in this collective work of the Paris 2024 Games.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u166	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u167	I express an unfavorable opinion, even though I share your position on the role of CDOS. The person in my constituency has never made such a request to me, whereas the person who presides for the time being has been in office for a very long time. I would like to point out that the CDOS are represented today in the regional sports conferences, and may have other representatives. CDOS always have the floor and are always listened to.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u168	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u169	CDOS can apply for the employment aid proposed by the ANS and have EUR 15000 per year. In substance, I share your concern because we want all sports structures, particularly territorial ones, to invest in human resources by hiring employees, but this will must be shared by the French National Olympic and Sports Committee (CNOSF). The latter has signed an agreement with the Ministry of Sport, which collects 10 million euros each year; in the context of the application of this Convention, we can help to structure it, if the NOCSF so wishes. Brigitte Henriques, who is now president of the CNOSF, has voted in favour of the professionalisation of the bodies. The NOCSF voted for the remuneration of its leader and several members of its management. I have no doubt that he will use the EUR 60 to 70 million paid to him by the OCOG to transfer the marketing rights of the French teams, in order to professionalise his deconcentrated structures, enabling them to create jobs. We are discussing this with the NOCSF.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u170	Mr. Stéphane Viry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u171	Madam Deputy Minister, I expected your answer, namely the use of indirect funding from structures. But the challenge and exceptional conditions we face would deserve direct funding. The sum of 3.5 million, in relation to the budget and the national stake, seems to me a good answer. Moreover, I have no doubt that if this amendment were not voted on, you would put all your energy in the balance so that the CDOS could be supported by the ANS and the NOCSF.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u172	I already do!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u173	Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor to support Amendment No. 525.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u174	The amendment by our colleague, Josette Manin, aims to enable high-level ultramarine athletes to return to their home country and find work after the end of their sports careers. This possibility can be an interesting lever for the development of sport in these territories. The aim is to finance the creation of two full-time equivalents dedicated to the resettlement, retraining and professional integration of former ultramarine high-performance athletes in the two centres of resources, expertise and sports performance – CREPS – ultramarine, Antilles-Guyane and La Réunion. It should be noted that many athletes choose to reconvert themselves into the management of clubs, training centres or advice to athletes, but are often delivered to themselves immediately at the end of their careers. Their conversion is therefore difficult, uneven and more or less successful depending on whether they have been able to form a coherent academic background and a professional network enabling them to enter working life quickly. However, encouraging athletes to return to their home territory allows them to take advantage of their skills, their network,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u175	Thank you, dear colleague!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u176	We're entitled to two minutes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u177	...of their experience in their discipline, and to train succession among future generations. The State has taken the measure of the problem by facilitating the creation of a specific foundation and the signing of employment agreements... You really disconcerted me, Mr. President, I can't do it anymore!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u178	You don't need much! Thank you for closing, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u179	Many reports show that high-level ultramarine athletes face additional barriers that occur at the end of their careers and undermine their employability. The creation of these two posts would also provide them with regional and personalized support.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u180	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u181	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u182	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u183	Unfavorable opinion because the amendment is already satisfied. The management dialogue with the CREPS and the policy of financing the ultramarine territories attest that we have the "overseas reflex". The Overseas Ministry plans to allocate the same funds for the development of sports practice in these territories as those allocated by the Ministry responsible for sports in this field.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u184	The Minister-in-Office has the floor to support Amendment No. 1234.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u185	It aims to take account of the transfer of the anti-doping laboratory from the French Anti-Doping Agency (AFLD) to the University of Paris-Saclay from 1 January 2022, by contributing to the operating costs of the laboratory and the investments corresponding to the first tranche of equipment acquisition, taking into account the requirements and ambition of hosting the Olympic and Paralympic Games in Paris in 2024. We therefore transfer the CREPS laboratory in Châtenay-Malabry and allocate the means necessary to ensure that this transfer takes place in the best possible conditions, including for the university that will host it, with optimal and as relevant mutualizations as possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u186	I call Mr Michel Larive to support Amendment No. 567.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u187	[[Smile]] Since you have shown common sense in starting the examination of this text, why not continue? As a World article on 29 September 2021 said, civic services are often used to the detriment of paid employment in a sector where hiring is rare. The 15-24 age group is the most affected by unemployment, with a rate of 20.6 per cent, while the national average is 8.1 per cent, even if it falls. This system often proves to be a second choice: in the absence of a job at the end of their studies, many young graduates turn to a civic service to perform tasks that should be performed by an employee, for less than 600 euros per month. According to the budget, 76% of the young people concerned have experience in the civic service for their professional career. Some students even use it instead of an internship or an alternance contract, as this is less costly for the employer. The consequences for their studies are important. Cash Investigation broadcast on December 10, 2020 has even shown that young people on civic service sometimes replace agents and contractors in Pôle Emploi, or in a sub-prefecture. We propose to transform civic services into 20,000 young jobs. Needs exist in schools, sports clubs and associations. These tasks of public utility will be reserved for young people for five years, for remuneration at least equal to the SMIC.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u188	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u189	Unfavorable opinion. On the one hand, you say that we ask too much of the civic services and, on the other, you also want to ask too much of them, but under another name.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u190	To SMIC!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u191	Perhaps some of the tasks that young people can perform on civic service could be reviewed. However, I agree with you on the need to reflect on what can be done for young people. There is a need to go to their homes, especially in neighbourhoods, where the unemployment rate may be higher. In fact, I invite you to do what we will do in three weeks' time in my constituency, where the unemployment rate is very low: to come with all the companies to meet the young people in our neighbourhoods, who are already waiting for them, and to answer the questions of unemployment and employment that may arise in these places.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u192	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u193	I will give a full answer on civic service, to make it shorter on the following amendments. Mr Larive, I know how attached you are to the idea of a mission, which is not a job. We have equipped the Civic Service Agency to strengthen controls on missions that might look like jobs. It is at this price that we can achieve the objective. Civic service is a commitment that lasts from six months to a maximum of one year and is not intended to replace employment. For the past year, we have been monitoring this system more strongly. It should be noted that 76% of young people see it as a commitment and 96% recommend it. Civic service is not a job and is not intended to be one.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u194	We have to tell the Special Rapporteur!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u195	This is why young people receive an allowance of EUR 580, with an additional allowance of EUR 100 for those who need it most, for example those who receive grants. Civic service is first and foremost a time of commitment of a little less than a year, which is intended to make the young person grow up in associations and local and regional authorities. Whenever there is a risk of substitution – and there has been a risk of substitution – we remove the approvals and, as a result of the monitoring, we withdraw the right to welcome young people on civic service, as this amounts to distorting the confidence these young people place in the institution.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u196	Mr Michel Larive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u197	I thank you, Madam Secretary of State, for you say roughly the opposite of what the rapporteur has just said,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u198	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u199	... according to which civic service is a job and that invites me to go to people who would have this professional experience. You just said exactly the opposite: it's not a job. The real problem is that these jobs are paid around 600 euros, which is almost half the poverty line. Pay people with a decent salary, and maybe you'll follow us. But it will then be called aided contracts again – the ones you deleted in 2017.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u200	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor to support Amendment No. 566.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u201	This is an appeal amendment. We leave 100 euros to make us understand, but we may not be at your level of intelligence and subtlety. This appeal amendment, I repeat, aims to transform part of the UNS budget into a guarantee of autonomy for young people between the ages of 18 and 25. The SNU "has an impact on society and that is priceless," explained Gabriel Attal. But, in reality, it does have a price: the SNU always costs more each year – 110 million in 2022 – while the impact of the programme is almost zero. At the same time, the Government has not identified any means to ensure that young people are no longer forced to wait for hours to obtain food aid. In May 2021, the FAGE-IPSOS survey revealed that 82 per cent of young people seeking employment felt that the Government had not done enough for young people in difficulty: 62 per cent had problems with proper feeding and 69 per cent had difficulties paying rent. We strongly oppose the choices made by this Government, which cause young people to give up their studies and reproduce social inequalities, to the detriment of all those who do not have family resources to mobilize. To put an end to the growing precarisation of young people, we propose to introduce a guarantee of autonomy of 1063 euros per month...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u202	Please conclude, Mrs. Fiat.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u203	I only spoke for a minute and fifty, Mr. President! So I was saying: 1063 euros a month for young people aged 18 to 25 who were detached from the parental tax home. In order to comply with the rules on financial admissibility, we propose to transfer the appropriations from Action 06...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u204	Thank you, Mrs. Fiat. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u205	Personally, I am against the amendment. You're against the SNU, I'm in favour. There are other arrangements for young people, and I have no doubt that the Secretary of State will be able to answer you. Mr Larive, we have not understood each other. The Secretary of State and I agree quite well. The question you were talking about – the work behind the civic service – is about integration: as I was telling you, it's about getting the young people from the neighbourhoods to help them. For the rest, I fully agree with the statement made by the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u206	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u207	To accompany the young people who need it the most, the most precarious, is obviously our mission. This is what we are doing, however, not in the context of the mission of the universal national service, but with the youth guarantee, which today represents more than 200,000 accompanied young people and more than 455 million euros invested to accompany the most precarious, those who do not have access to housing, health, and sometimes even to the family solidarity that you have mentioned. Madam Member, the SNU certainly costs more than 2200 euros per young person, but it is an investment for young people, some of whom had never seen a doctor or had never left their department – one in two young people had never taken the train. To these very young young people – between 15 and 17 years of age – it is a matter of giving a little more hope and opportunity at this crucial stage of their lives. The UNS is, in itself, an acceleration of equal opportunities. The Government's opinion was therefore obviously unfavourable. Emancipation and a way forward for young people should not be opposed; both are a response to insecurity.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u208	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u209	Thank you, rapporteur, for having answered Mr Larive's question, and not mine. Madam Secretary of State, I hear your answer, but we cannot oppose the jobs of the Youth Guarantee and the UNS, and I do not. There are, on the streets of our country, kids who stand in line for food or can't pay their rent. The purpose of this appeal amendment is to warn you that, at the moment, you can't pay children at 500 euros a month – I say "children", but it could be me, because I'm not so old! It's indecent. We all know, on all these benches, that it is impossible to live below the poverty line, and we see tails in front of the Popular Relief and the Restos of the Heart. Our amendment, as I said twice, is an appeal amendment. Let's do something, let's get these young people to work in the sport community so that they can live with dignity in their profession, because there is no sub-trade in our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u210	I call Mr Michel Larive to support Amendment No. 569.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u211	This is an appeal amendment, because we do not have your prerogatives to make sweeps in an election period. We wish to denounce the lack of interest in the universal national service. You're telling us that it allows young people to travel? Pay them a train ticket! It does not allow free upgrades for young people who have dropped out of the school system or are in difficulty, nor does it allow health check-ups, or free driving training with the passing of the driver's licence exam. On the other hand, 74% of French people are in favour of our proposal to create a compulsory nine-month civil service paid to the SMIC, with an assessment of literacy, reading and numeracy skills, courses and follow-up for all young people who have dropped out of the school system or are in difficulty. This citizen conscription would introduce a right to free learning of the road and driving rules. Again, 74% of French people are in favour of this proposal, according to a Harris Interactive survey of July 2021. This citizen service could be carried out everywhere, in the service of solidarity, the environment or the humanitarian, or perhaps in the military field. That's what a useful UNS could be.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u212	Ladies and gentlemen, as we proceed, we will conclude our examination of this mission at four o'clock in the morning.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u213	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u214	It's okay!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u215	We have an abundant agenda tomorrow, and I see that some of our colleagues are giving me signs!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u216	That's why we're here!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u217	Mr Michel Larive has the floor. Is Amendment No 576 being defended?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u218	Mr President, we are here to defend our point of view.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u219	It's your strictest right.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u220	You, too, are part of the opposition. So don't shoot yourself in the foot, because it bounces over ours!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u221	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Concision does not rule out relevance.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u222	You make me want to fully defend all our amendments! With it, we regret that popular education is clearly not a priority for the Government. National support for approved youth and popular education associations is down by EUR 150000, while it should have increased by almost EUR 135000 to take account of inflation. The same applies to support for youth and popular education associative projects, whose funding is down by €1.6 million. [[Caroline Fiat applauds]] Popular education aims at access to autonomy, develops citizenship and is based on peer education. To put in place the tools of popular education is to consider that no one educates anyone, that no one educates himself alone, that men educate themselves through the world, as Paulo Freire affirms; It is to adopt an accompaniment posture from where people are and not from where they would like to arrive, inviting questioning and building on people's experiences. How can we accept this decline in the resources allocated to youth and people's education associations?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u223	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u224	Unfavorable opinion. What you're saying is wrong. As is well explained in the budget reports, the FONJEP appropriations do not decrease, they are just distributed differently. Between 2020 and 2021, FONJEP's appropriations increase by EUR 4.5 million, plus, of course, the appropriations of the recovery plan.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u225	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u226	The UNS is a citizen engagement. For 15 days, young people learn the road code, do reading tests. For the next 15 days, they joined associations. This is our way of supporting commitment and volunteerism. It is thanks to the 110 million UNS that we are deploying new popular education missions. In reality, it is therefore new resources for all actors in daily education in all territories, and of course in popular education, that are brought by the FONJEP and other mechanisms such as civic service or the SNU. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u227	Mr Michel Larive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u228	Mr Special Rapporteur, what I am saying is not wrong, it is you who are telling the truth! You take the total balance of 4.6 million, and I take the "Youth and Popular Education" line, which is down by 150000 euros, whereas it should have increased by almost 135000 euros. Similarly, with regard to support for youth and popular education associative projects, funding is down by EUR 1.6 million. Read the lines!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u229	I call Mr Michel Larive to support Amendment No. 577.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u230	The PLF has a new scheme, "one young person, one mentor", which still has a budget of €27 million. The public guidance service has been abolished by this Government: the IOC, information and guidance centres, network of more than 478 public reception places for information on training and trades, and the free provision of guidance advice were abolished at the beginning of the quinquennium. You're trying to replace them with mentoring or mentoring: it's really the start-up nation, dear to President Macron. Of course, it would be enough for adults to bring their own example of life, as recommended by the President, to accompany young people in their projects. There is, of course, no need for school psychologists in national education, particularly, who specialize in guidance. It is ultimately about crossing the street and knowing how to seize opportunities. We call on the Government to re-establish a public guidance service composed of qualified personnel.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u231	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u232	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u233	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u234	Same opinion. These 27 million euros benefit the collective associative Collectif Mentorat, including associations such as the Association of the Student Foundation for the City (AFEV), the federation From territories to major schools, Socrates, etc. ; Nothing to do with the start-up nation! It is about trusting each young person and meeting their needs. These 27 million euros are deployed by the voluntary world to accompany each young person, where he or she is; They come to strengthen associative life. I would add that the budget for the Guidance has not changed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u235	Mr Michel Larive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u236	Thank you for your clarification. Are you going, yes or no, to restore the public service of guidance? I recall that 478 places of reception were abolished at the beginning of the quinquennium. You may not have been Secretary of State yet, but it was this government that did.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u237	Mr Gérard Leseul, in support of Amendment No. 529, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u238	I would like to return to the civic service which, as we know, is a beautiful school of engagement and a great opportunity for renewal for associations, national as well as local, as well as for public institutions that host volunteers. It strengthens national cohesion and the social mix that you mentioned earlier, and offers any voluntary person the opportunity to commit to a collective project by carrying out a mission of general interest. Today, civic service has, for many of our young people, become a flagship generational marker. While the Government has made the choice of universal national service, giving up and significantly threatening civic service, the health crisis has made you aware of the need for voluntary commitment to the public interest. As we requested, the Government then decided to increase the level of civic service. The problem is that no additional funding is allocated for the Youth and Associative Life Programme's Civic Service Development Action. That is why we are proposing an amendment aimed at clearly increasing the appropriations for the civic service by EUR 110 million, rather than including appropriations in the recovery plan.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u239	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u240	Unfavorable opinion. The credits for the recovery plan amount to 201 million, almost double what you are asking for – 110 million.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u241	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u242	Same opinion. Civic service is the third stage of the UNS; As a result, there is a high level of awareness, including young people who do not have access to it today.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u243	Mr Gérard Leseul has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u244	The recovery plan is temporary, while we ask for the sustainability of the action because, as you have understood and accepted, civic service is essential for our youth. This cannot therefore be a temporary measure, as is the case with the recovery plan.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u245	Mr Alain David has the floor to support Amendment No. 527.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u246	It aims to financially support the voluntary sector by raising the amount of the FDVA to EUR 100 million. This re-evaluation is necessary.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u247	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u248	Many amendments are intended to increase the amount of the FDVA, but they are not under joint discussion. Would there not be a way of responding to it in a global way?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u249	You can respond globally, but as we are in the context of a budgetary debate, there are no joint discussions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u250	The opinion will be unfavourable on all such amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u251	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u252	If you wish, Mr. Chairman, I can give a comprehensive answer to the FDVA. We have two objectives: on the one hand, to facilitate the life of associations, especially of the smallest of them, by simplifying the reception in our territories; on the other hand, to strengthen and sustain the funds, whether for inactive accounts, the budget in law of finance or the strengthening of the training part. The mission of the FDVA is to achieve greater transparency. Since July 1, the date of the enactment of the law to improve the cash flow of associations, parliamentarians can sit on the FDVA committee and therefore have more information on the criteria. Beyond that, budgets are still stable. Support for associative life is not exclusively provided through the FDVA and it is necessary to recall sectoral support – sport, culture, solidarity and health. Unfavorable opinion on amendments proposing to increase the FDVA to the detriment of civic service, the Olympic Games, etc.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u253	Mr Alain David has the floor to support Amendment No. 537.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u254	The aim of this withdrawal amendment is to double the appropriations allocated to the FDVA.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u255	I have before me four identical amendments, Nos 372, 501, 627 and 686. I call Mr Cinieri to support Amendment No. 372.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u256	It aims to increase appropriations for the FDVA by EUR 5 million. This fund is still not sufficiently equipped to compensate for the abolition of the parliamentary reserve which benefited the associations. In a context of resumption of activity which remains difficult and where the activities of associations are still so indispensable, they need, at all levels of the territory, stronger support from the public authorities to operate, develop new projects and strengthen their structuring. Madam Secretary of State, earlier I asked you why the parliamentary reserve had been abolished. Can you answer me?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u257	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u258	Identical amendments No 501 by Mr Stéphane Viry, 627 by Mrs Isabelle Valentin and 686 by Mrs Fabienne Colboc are being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u259	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 340 and 583. The draftsman has the floor to support Amendment No. 340.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u260	The EUR 100 million entered for the pass'sport in 2022 will not be consumed – you have made it clear. This system is complex in its use for associations and sometimes redundant with aid provided by local authorities. With this amendment, I wish to support sport practice and the credibility of the state's budgetary commitments. It aims to allocate directly to sports associations and federations, hard hit by the crisis, the sums that will not be consumed, estimated at about 50 million, i.e. half of the 100 million dedicated to the pass'sport in programme 219.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u261	I call Mr Michel Castellani to support Amendment No. 583.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u262	As Mr Pancher has just explained, it is a matter of directly allocating the amounts not consumed to sports associations and federations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u263	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u264	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u265	I repeat that the pass'sport is a success, 600,000 young people have already been able to benefit from it. I agree with you that we must not lose money on the sports budget. Perhaps we need to increase the number of weeks, but I will let the minister speak on this point. The question now is what needs to be done to improve the system in the future. This year, we had to go very fast. A letter was sent during the summer to eligible families. For years to come, we could try to double this email – but we know it's very complicated with the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). Above all, it would be necessary to have a more efficient IT platform to help all families use this device. These amounts should therefore be retained in the sports budget, and especially in the case of the sports pass. Let us not forget that the accounting exercise of certain federations is based on the calendar year, and that it has not yet begun.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u266	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u267	It is far too early to take stock of the non-consumption of appropriations. For my part, I think that this budget will be consumed. In any case, as I said earlier, it is unprecedented that a measure is interested in the demand for sport. The funds will be used to work on, specify, and seek out non-sporting audiences in order to bring them back to the community field or to a family practice of sport in the event that these children are not involved in club sports, in any case in a federal club. This is why we want to extend to clubs structures in rural areas. We also want to extend the scheme to other age groups. This measure is made to test the consumption of sport in our territories, for one in two children. That is why it is specific. It was hoped that the money would be paid directly to the associations, but the measure concerns the purchasing power of French and French people, because we want to check whether this is actually what hinders the practice of sport in France for this specific audience, of which it will provide a photograph of the uses of sport. I assure you that these funds will be spent on sport. They should not be redistributed to communities, associations or sports federations, as someone suggested earlier, in case they are not used. We know very well what we are going to do with this EUR 100 million, and we will.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u268	Mr Michel Zumkeller has the floor to support Amendment No. 694.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u269	It intends to create a fund of 50 million euros to help the very small associations that are short of a few thousand euros to close their budget – without trying to break the nail, this is what the parliamentary reserve served – because, during the health crisis, they were unable to organise the small events at which they usually get part of their revenues: the lottery, the annual meal of the members... For these small structures, it is difficult to mount a FDVA folder. But it is important to preserve them because, by losing them, we would lose a lot: this would in fact be tantamount to despairing the volunteers. It's a small quick aid fund, allowing for the release of small amounts, but could save a lot of volunteers and associations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u270	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u271	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u272	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u273	Same opinion. Mr Zumkeller's speech gives me the opportunity to reply also to Mr Cinieri on the subject of the parliamentary reserve. Yes, we must accompany the smallest associations; This is why three quarters of the funds are paid to associations with only one employee or none. While 12300 associations were supported through the parliamentary reserve, this year they are 14000 to be accompanied throughout the country thanks to the FDVA.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u274	But the amounts are lower!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u275	The question is how the financial support of these associative structures is distributed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u276	It's a gas factory! You're out of the ground!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u277	I am not in favour of the creation of a new fund, Mr Zumkeller, not that the small associations are not meant to be accompanied, but there is already a fund whose means are simply to increase – there will be several amendments to that effect – which will make life easier for small associations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u278	It's outrageous to hear such words!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u279	Mr Dino Cinieri has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u280	[[Applause on the benches of the LR, UDI-I and LT groups]] Madam Secretary of State, during the time of the parliamentary reserve, I distributed the EUR 130000 which I had among the 600 associations located in my constituency, working hand in hand with the mayors of cities and rural areas, all trends combined. Today, with the FDVA, there are only about fifteen associations in my constituency receiving assistance, and many others are coming to complain to me that they are no longer receiving any support. Frankly, powdering is not a solution. Are you going, yes or no, to return to the MPs the parliamentary reserve they need to establish a social and sporting link in their constituency?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u281	But they don't even know what they're talking about! The distribution of the parliamentary reserve was public!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u282	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 342 and 619. The draftsman of the opinion, in support of Amendment No. 342, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u283	Deputy Minister, when asked about the management of the multiple sport-related devices, they tell us that while they managed two or three devices a few years ago, they now manage a good ten, and with fewer staff. Among the new schemes, there is obviously the FDVA, endowed with 30 million euros, which is a drop of water in the financing of local authorities. I believe that we have shot ourselves in the foot by abolishing the parliamentary reserve, which has deprived us of any possibility of intervention on the ground. In the absence of giving back to parliamentarians the responsibility of managing these small sums, and rather than having them managed by the state services, I propose to entrust them to the local authorities, which finance the associations on a daily basis. This will at least avoid an additional stratum in the allocation of funds and thus relieve your ministry of an assignment that can be dispensed with – because by doing everything, you end up doing everything wrong.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u284	I call Mr Michel Castellani to support Amendment No. 619.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u285	I would like to point out that the solution that Mr Pancher has just outlined would be a means of mobilising the municipalities and, more broadly, the different strata already involved in sport, which would help to create an additional dynamic in supporting sport.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u286	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u287	Unfavorable opinion. [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] First, it is not the ministry that decides, but a local commission in which local elected representatives, including representatives of the department and the regions, sit. Knowing you, I know that you are going around the associations of your constituency: I do not fail to do the same, and in my constituency, it is thus sixty associations that received an average aid of 6000 euros, for a total amount of 350,000 euros – compared to 220000 the previous year.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u288	It's normal, you belong to the majority!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u289	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] This has nothing to do with it! It is the same everywhere, it is not necessary to be in the majority to write to all associations in your electoral district to inform them that the FDVA exists. There is also nothing to prevent you from helping them take the necessary steps with the FDVA.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u290	But we've been doing it for years! Where did he come from? He's come to explain to us what we've been doing in the territories forever! We didn't wait for you to act!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u291	Thank you, Mr. Special Rapporteur!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u292	[[Protests on the benches of the LR group]] No, I'd like to finish. Don't forget that another part of the parliamentary reserve that you loved so much has come to abound the equipment of the rural territories (DETR) coming from the communes and driven by the mayors.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u293	Amendment No 526 by Mr Régis Juanico is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u294	I call Mr Cinieri to support Amendment No. 373.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u295	The sports clubs in our territories have suffered greatly from successive confinements and the implementation of the sanitary pass. Registration has declined significantly and the financial resources associated with the events have been virtually zero. In this particular context, the return to sport is a major issue for the physical and mental health of French people of all generations. The amendment therefore aims to increase the resources of sports clubs by taking EUR 25 million from action 01 Olympic and Paralympic Works Delivery Company within the 350 Olympic and Paralympic Games 2024 programme to integrate them into action 01 Promotion of sport for the largest number of the 219 Sport programme.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u296	Amendment No 696 by Mrs Béatrice Descamps is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u297	Mrs Maud Petit has the floor to support Amendment No. 616.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u298	This appeal amendment aims to highlight action 01 Promotion of sport for the largest number of the 219 Sport programme, paying particular attention to the situation of sports clubs and sports federations overseas. Indeed, after the health crisis, the consequences of which do not have exactly the same temporality as in Hexagon, and for cause, we have been told of difficulties, particularly financial ones, related to the loss of adherents. It is therefore essential to allow overseas clubs and federations, which are indispensable players in the promotion of sport and its values in these territories, to continue their activities under the best conditions by accompanying them during this very special period following the crisis. I therefore propose to increase the appropriations for Action 01 by EUR 1 million and, for this purpose, to redirect EUR 1 million from Action 04 of Programme 163 Youth and Associative Life to Action 01 of Programme 219.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u299	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u300	Unfavorable opinion. As the Deputy Minister said earlier, thanks to the EUR 200 million plan for local sports infrastructure that we voted for earlier, 100% of the sports needs of the Overseas Territories will be met – so we are going beyond your demands.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u301	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u302	Thank you for the appeal amendment, Madam Member, which I will ask you to withdraw – failing which I will issue an unfavorable opinion – with your request being satisfied. During the health crisis, special attention was paid to the ultramarine territories as part of the territorial share, since all the projects presented by the local sports associations in the overseas region were financed, benefiting from almost 3 million euros last year – 15.3 million euros in 2020 compared to 12.5 million euros in 2019. Moreover, the programme for the development of sports equipment is systematically discussed with the Overseas Ministry, which allocates exactly the same sums as the Ministry of Sport in order to double the effect of our programmes in the ultramarine territories – which, I agree with you, have more than needed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u303	I call Mr Michel Larive to support Amendment No. 568.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u304	With this appeal amendment, we denounce the Government's introduction of a children's health pass from the age of 12, which deprives children of the opportunity to engage in sports activities, especially in working-class neighbourhoods, and thus endangers sports associations. The sports associations of Seine-Saint-Denis are particularly affected by the drop in registrations since the beginning of 2021: at the Association sportif de Saint-Denis, there are only fourteen children enrolled in the water-polo against sixty usually; A hundred young basketball players did not return to the club of Aulnay Fusion Basket. The phenomenon does not only affect my department: football club Avignon Ouest also reports that several of its teams regularly have to declare a package for lack of players in each of the age classes. While sports associations have an educational and social role, it is the whole network of associations and the strong link with these young people that the Government is detriculating. The sport pass, which provides for the payment of 50 euros per child for the most modest families, loses its meaning in the context of the health pass.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u305	Amendment No 629 by Mrs Isabelle Valentin is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u306	Mr Michel Zumkeller has the floor to support Amendment No. 698.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u307	With your permission, Mr President, I will jointly defend Amendments Nos 698, 697 and 699, all from the Grenelle de l'Éducation on the basis of the work of Benoît Jimenez, Mayor of Garges-lès-Gonesse. The aim is to help create 2,000 assisted jobs for sports associations and 1,000 jobs for sports integration coaches, but also to create a €30 million fund to support socio-sports associations. These means given to neighbourhoods will give them the opportunity to develop, which they need. Our group is obviously heir to Jean-Louis Borloo, and everything that concerns the neighbourhoods of city politics concerns us and interests us.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u308	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u309	A few months ago, you missed the turn that Jean-Louis Borloo proposed: don't miss this one, it is very important and young people in our neighbourhoods need it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u310	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u311	Unfavorable opinion. We will not go back to what has already been said about assisted jobs, but there are now other mechanisms, including FDVA and FONJEP.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u312	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u313	Mr President, I cannot let you say that we would have missed the turn: on the contrary, we have responded very positively to the call of the mayors and the Agency for Education through Sport (APELS) to ensure the financing of integration coaches to the tune of EUR 500 000 each year for the next two years. These coaches will be involved with community actors who support education and integration through sport as much as I do, especially in the priority neighbourhoods of the city, where they are better recognized thanks to the educational cities that the Government has set up, but also thanks to a very strong collaboration with Nadia Hai, the minister responsible for the city. This collaboration was valued in the framework of the city's inter-ministerial committee, which immediately followed the call of the mayors and at which we announced financial measures on sport that have been integrated into the PLF, namely 30 million euros for equipment and 6 million euros in interventions for the functioning of these associations whose cause you rightly advocate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u314	Amendments Nos 505 by Mr Stéphane Viry and 697 by Mr Michel Zumkeller are being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u315	I call Mr Viry to support Amendment No. 503.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u316	[[Virginie Duby-Muller and Maxime Minot applaud]] We have a major disagreement with the majority, which does not admit to having made an error in 2017 by removing the parliamentary reserve without providing an equivalent amount of budgetary appropriations that could have allowed interventions as close as possible to the needs in the territories. The FDVA is insufficient and not accessible to all associations. So let the elected representatives on the ground remain the members of parliament to act as closely as possible to the needs. This is the meaning of this amendment, which, modest in its quantum, is however likely to offer us a way out of the structural error, the political error – in the noble sense of the term – committed by the majority in 2017.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u317	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u318	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u319	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u320	That's too bad!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u321	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u322	I know how essential it is to support associations in the territories. But it is important to see what progress will be made in the presence of parliamentarians on FDVA committees. Transparency will be increased, expertise will be deepened and simplification will continue. This increased participation is an additional step that we have taken through the enactment of the July 2021 Act.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u323	Mr. Stéphane Viry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u324	But, Madam Secretary of State, what we need is not more transparency and information, but more appropriations. We ask that they be restored to their 2017 level, nothing more, nothing less. That parliamentarians sit on FDVA committees, where their voice will have a lower weight than that of state officials, is a decoy, as we know. Let us have information on how the credits are delivered, at the right time! It doesn't bring any extra resources to the associations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u325	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u326	I have two identical amendments before me, Nos 341 and 390. The draftsman has the floor to support Amendment No. 341.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u327	The Buffet tax on audiovisual broadcasting rights for sporting events is one of the three taxes allocated to the National Sports Agency. Its yield, set at 74 million euros in the draft finance law for 2021, is expected to finally reach less than 49 million euros in 2021. The aim of the amendment is to provide the ANS with a level of resources equivalent to what was originally foreseen without the need for the Government to compensate through a budgetary collective at the end of the year.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u328	I call Mr Michel Castellani to support Amendment No. 590.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u329	Unfortunately, funding for the NSA has to be reduced due to the cascade effect of Mediapro's bankruptcy. We are seeking by this amendment to consolidate the Agency's budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u330	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u331	Let us not forget that last year, thanks to a parliamentary amendment, the cap on the Buffet tax was raised to EUR 74 million, which we can welcome. It is indeed on the occasion of a budgetary collective at the end of the year that we will be able to make corrections for this year. We will then look at how to evolve this funding. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u332	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u333	Same opinion. I confirm what I have already said: the National Sports Agency will benefit from the means initially dedicated to it to operate, even if the product of the Buffet tax is not as important as expected. The Government undertakes to compensate for the losses caused by the smallest television rights.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u334	I call Mr Tolmont to support Amendment No. 536.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u335	It aims to increase the appropriations of the ANS by EUR 25 million. During the examination of the first part of this PLF, we requested an increase in the ceiling of the three taxes allocated to the Agency, taxes previously earmarked for the financing of the National Centre for the Development of Sport (CNDS). Their product reached a historical level of 297 million euros in 2017. In 2018, they were capped at EUR 133.4 million. While the ceiling was then raised to 180 million by 2021, no changes were foreseen in 2022. An increase in appropriations would significantly increase the amounts of grants to local authorities: construction and energy renovation of sports facilities in the territories and support for amateur clubs through the abundance of the Impact 2024 fund dedicated to the development of sports practice and sports heritage.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u336	I call Mr Tolmont to support Amendment No. 531.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u337	This amendment by the Socialist and Related Group aims to increase the FONJEP by EUR 14.4 million. This fund provides support grants to the voluntary sector for the remuneration of qualified staff responsible for the implementation of the associative action or the organisation of the association project. It thus allows associations to be financially assisted to welcome new human resources but also to many young people to integrate professionally into the associative life sector by this type of contract assisted. We believe that this tool deserves to rise in power.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u338	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u339	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u340	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u341	Mrs Tolmont, your amendment is satisfied with the increase in appropriations for FONJEP.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u342	I call Mr Habert-Dassault to support Amendment No. 523.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u343	The regiment of adapted military service, the RSMA, is a corps specific to the overseas, which for sixty years, in a military setting, welcomes young people in difficulty of integration and offers them a professional path around citizenship and vocational training. The skills delivered are very varied: living together, vocational training, civic education, first aid, resilience, driving licence, strengthening written and oral expression, office automation, and self-confidence. Commitment to the fight against illiteracy or illiteracy – difficult to master digital tools – is essential to enable the young people concerned to integrate into working life. We propose to allocate the sum of 10.5 million to the training of 300 volunteers, 300 young people who would be given the ability to find personal development and financial autonomy in Hexagon and more specifically in the department of Oise. The objective is the immediate employability of young people who wanted to join the regiment, but also the strengthening of social cohesion. Since 1961, the RSMA has shown remarkable effectiveness among volunteers aged 18 to 25 who have been part of it. He encouraged them to pursue a new life project, thanks to a virtuous journey based on the enthusiastic desire to excel in a balanced framework around know-how and know-how. This success-oriented scheme has enabled 75 per cent of young people under the age of 25 to find a job or to continue training, six months after their return to civilian life. [[Mr Maxime Minot applauds]] In view of the multiple benefits of the RSMA, we believe that the adoption of our amendment would be of great economic, social and educational value.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u344	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u345	I will allow the Secretary of State to speak on this very specific subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u346	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u347	You're preaching to a convinced woman, Mr. Habert-Dassault. Adapted military service (SMA), specific to overseas countries, and voluntary military service (SMV), deployed in seven metropolitan departments, are two magnificent devices for accompaniment of young people who, for some, are far from social life itself. In this environment, they benefit from supervision, do various apprenticeships, practice sport, regain pride, and a large percentage of them then manage to reintegrate into professional and social life, some even resuming studies. It's a full success. However, I will ask you to withdraw your amendment, which will prevent me from issuing an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u348	Oh, no!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u349	I support the development of the SMV in metropolitan France. We intend to build on the UNS to identify young people aged 15 to 17 before they really drop out and accompany them in phase 3 to very specific schemes such as Employment Integration Institutions (EPIDE), the SMV or the ADM if they are overseas. It is because this device developed by Geneviève Darrieussecq and myself works that I prefer to ask you to withdraw your amendment. This will allow us to work on a more specific experiment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u350	Why not rely on the wisdom of the House?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u351	I call Mr Viry to support Amendment No. 502.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u352	Sport, as we know, can be a path to employability. Why not make it a path to vocational integration? In association, the Regional Directorates for Enterprise, Competition, Consumer, Labour and Employment (DIRECCTE), the Employment Pole, the CDOS and the Integration through Economic Activity Structures (SIAE) would be prepared to devise new solutions, perhaps a little different from the coaching offered in the framework of the first employment aid for young people (APEJ). Many projects are emerging in the territories. They simply need to be linked to each other to create a value chain. The need for project promoters is always felt. With this amendment, I ask you to experiment with a mechanism where sport would be used to encourage employment, in particular that of young people who are furthest from it, in particular the beneficiaries of the RSA. The idea is good and shared by all. It simply needs to be translated into concrete terms by funding positions of project managers who would conduct the experiment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u353	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u354	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u355	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u356	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u357	Sport is indeed an accelerator of integration, and together with the Minister responsible for sports, we will encourage associations that value the recognition of skills and the acquisition of knowledge essential for in-depth professional integration. However, I would be against your amendment because such experiments are already taking place under other arrangements. But we support the idea that you defend: enlighten the situation and experiment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u358	Mr Michel Zumkeller has the floor to support Amendment No. 699.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u359	When we said that the Government did not listen to us, the minister said that this was not the case. However, only fifty posts of sports integration coaches were created while the Grenelle de l'éducation et de l'inclusion advocated a thousand. Your 500,000 euros are undoubtedly a first step, but acknowledge with us that it is only a small step. To finance these thousand posts, it would take EUR 7.5 million. That is what we are asking because it is a good thing. So let's try to move on together. But don't say that you listened to us, because fifty posts are obviously not enough.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u360	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u361	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 343 and 623. Amendment No 343 by the draftsman is not supported. I call Mr Michel Castellani to support Amendment No. 623.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u362	It is well known that the complexity of the procedures related to the association account, or ass account, has been a hindrance to the deployment of the pass'sport. The same amendments are intended to launch a major effort to unify the grant management system, obviously without affecting the freedom of community management.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u363	I call Mr Michel Castellani to support Amendment No. 459.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u364	It proposes to strengthen grants to accredited associations and federations "Youth and People's Education".
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u365	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u366	Identical amendments Nos 500 by Mr Stéphane Viry and 687 by Mrs Fabienne Colboc are being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u367	Mr Gérard Leseul has the floor to support Amendment No. 538.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u368	During the health crisis, we found that the maquis of the accompaniment counters made the support to the voluntary sector unreadable and uncoordinated. This lack of structure was also noted by the Court of Auditors on 21 May in the context of an assessment of the state's support for the voluntary sector. The Court deplored the lack of strategy and fragile coordination: "The implementation of measures to support associations to deal with the crisis of the covid-19 was laborious. It was not until May 2020 that certain aid schemes were adapted to their particular situation, opening them up to the Solidarity Fund and ensuring that their grants were maintained, even when the measures financed could not take place because of the circumstances. » It is important to allocate the necessary resources to continue the mission of strengthening support for associations, launched in 2020 as part of the Action Plan for an ambitious policy of association life and the development of a commitment society. In this amendment, we foresee two envelopes: one, amounting to EUR 1.5 million, for support to the scheme through grants; the other, of 3.3 million, for the opening of FONJEP posts.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u369	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u370	Request for withdrawal or unfavorable notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u371	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u372	Same opinion, exactly. The Government is committed to carrying out this project and has committed itself to doing so, even if the necessary resources are made available.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u373	Mrs Sylvie Tolmont has the floor to support Amendments Nos 535 and 528, which can be presented in a consolidated format.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u374	Indeed, No. 528 is an amendment of withdrawal. The contribution of sport to prevention, whether primary, secondary or tertiary, is now widely documented: it is therefore a matter of increasing the resources allocated to sport-health homes in order to accelerate their development.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u375	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u376	Unfavorable. These amendments are satisfactory: the bill provides for 4.2 million to be spent on sports-health homes, which are expected to be 500 by the end of 2022, in line with the Government's commitment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u377	I call Mr Viry to support Amendment No. 504.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u378	Without the 13 million volunteers in our country, there would be no associations; no associations, no social ties, no animations, no learning from any particular discipline. But volunteering is in difficulty: with this amendment, I propose that you support it by means of a particular mechanism. This would be a very clear and legible gesture in favour of these men and women who are waiting for a form of recognition from the State.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u379	You can adopt it unanimously, this one!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u380	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u381	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u382	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u383	The same advice: Volunteer support is now provided by the Citizen Engagement Account (CEC) and the FDVA Training. It is also promised to develop, as the status of the volunteer is a vast and very open project; our capacity to support, to increase the recognition of volunteerism in each territory, is even wider. I will cite just one example: our mobilization, together with the community movement, for the return of volunteers, of which 20% have not reintegrated the structures, causing a crisis commensurate with their role and responsibilities.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u384	The Special Rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u385	I would add that the FDVA formation – or FDVA 1 – still represents 8 million euros. I was one of the authors of the report submitted to the Prime Minister on 19 July 2018 and making proposals to optimize the tourism benefits of major sporting events: we had advocated that companies should be allowed to use their employees' personal training account (PCP) to acquire skills corresponding to professional qualification certificates (PQCs), for example, a host skill that could be mobilised during the Olympic Games, or the Rugby World Cup, and which could be valued within the company. There would therefore be room for progress in this area: I am ready to discuss it with you.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u386	Mr Gérard Leseul has the floor to support Amendment No. 530.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u387	I do not know whether the Special Rapporteur will also be ready to discuss with me, but it turns out that in 2020, the FDVA training allowed to finance nearly 1900 training courses for 180,000 volunteers, elected or responsible for activities. However, as the Secretary of State pointed out, our country has 13 million volunteers in 1.5 million associations. It would therefore be important for the FDVA formation to rise in power: that is why we propose to increase its credits by 2 million, its current 8 million leaving it under-funded.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u388	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u389	Unfavorable notice: we will be able to exchange on this subject, if you wish.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u390	On the credits of the mission Sport, Youth and Associative Life, I am seized by the group La République en marche of a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. I call Mr Michel Larive to support Amendment No. 571.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u391	It aims to officially recognize Deaflympics, intended for deaf athletes, as well as the Olympic and Paralympic Games. Athletes with hearing disabilities are the only ones with physical or sensory disabilities whose participation is not accepted by the International Paralympic Committee; The NOCSF, which deals with the Olympic Games, does not accept it further. Since 1924, they have been measured in the framework of the Deaflympics, organized by the International Committee on Deaf Sports. The latter, founded by the Frenchman Eugène Rubens-Alcais and the Belgian Antoine Dresse, has been recognized since 1955 by the International Olympic Committee (IOC) but still not by the French State, with the consequences that this implies for high-level athletes, even though France has won 311 medals in 37 participations in these games!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u392	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u393	Thank you, Mr Larive, for this appeal amendment, which raises a very interesting question. Nevertheless, I personally believe that the organizers of the Paralympic Games should be approached in this direction. Our Sandrine Martinet flag holder resides in my constituency: I will notify her. Until we have a comprehensive vision, I would ask for the amendment to be withdrawn; Failing that, unfavorable opinion, although I agree with you.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u394	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u395	Last spring, Mr Larive, I had the opportunity to respond on this subject to another Member of your group, Mr Prud'homme, I believe. Of course, I am very sensitive to the question of the deaf who want to play a sport, including at the highest level, even though the Deaflympics are less selective than the Olympic and Paralympic Games; But it is not this last point that concerns us. The movement you are talking about is not recognized – it does not want to be – by the International Paralympic Committee, that is, by the International Olympic Organization for Persons with Disabilities; On the other hand, it is by the IOC. I therefore invite its members to structure themselves, to come to see us and even to leave the French Handisport Federation to create an entity in its own right; In addition, as I am committed to doing, we will support the athletes concerned with a view to their travel to Brazil, where the next Deaflympics will take place. However, I am against your amendment because of the amount it covers – EUR 1 million, which is far more than the needs of athletes on this occasion. We will discuss the rest with them the selection and the extent of it: the ministry is not intended to support participation in mass competitions, but in high-level competitions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u396	I call Mr Michel Larive to support Amendment No. 572.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u397	This is another appeal amendment, recalling that the Act of 11 February 2005 on equal rights and opportunities, participation and citizenship of persons with disabilities made the accessibility of all sports facilities mandatory for the disabled by 2015. In 2021, the application of these provisions continues to be postponed for lack of means. Similarly, the national resource centre "Sports and disability" has proposed a number of facilities aimed at increasing the autonomy of the disabled in gymnasiums, or at enhancing the quality and comfort of use for all. The State must assume its responsibilities, especially when it comes to honouring its own commitments. We therefore propose a national plan to make all equipment accessible to persons with any disability, physical, sensory, cognitive, mental or psychic – in accordance, I repeat, with the 2005 law.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u398	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u399	Disadvantaged, even though, in reality, I fully agree with Mr Larive. It is necessary to move faster, beyond the sports field, for all institutions receiving from the public. The 5000 structures we mentioned earlier, for example, will have to be accessible to the disabled. Efforts had already been made before; The Government has continued along this path with the Sports Handiguide, among others.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u400	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u401	Same opinion. For all recently constructed or renovated structures, accessibility is real, financed by the communities and by the State in proportion to their contribution to the facilities themselves. Of course, particular attention will be paid to the 5,000 upcoming equipments. Today, the French Paralympic and Sports Committee (CPSF) deplores the poverty of the local sport offer, whether it comes from communities or associations, in the reception of persons with disabilities. We need to find a way to work on this, to better train educators, with the help of the two specific sports federations and the CPSF, in order to animate the equipment now accessible.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u402	Mr Michel Larive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u403	I'll be brief, Mr. President, but I want people who look at us to understand what's going on. [[Mrs. Caroline Fiat applauds. – Mr Maxime Minot smiles]] Mr Special Rapporteur, you have said twice that you agree with what I am saying and that you have given an unfavorable opinion. For our next amendments, may I ask you not to agree, but to give a favourable opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u404	The Special Rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u405	I would like to ask you, honourable Member: your two amendments were appeal amendments!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u406	Amendment No 575 by Mr Michel Larive is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u407	Mrs Maud Petit has the floor to support Amendment No. 617.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u408	The aim of this amendment, too, is to transfer 1 million from Action 4 of Programme 169 to Action 3 of Programme 219 on prevention through sport and protection of athletes. Indeed, while the draft budget for 2022 welcomes the mobilization of additional appropriations to combat incivility and violence in sport, the scale of these systemic phenomena must nevertheless alert the legislator and lead to a greater budgetary investment. The ordinary violence that gangstifies our social relations serves as a soil for all others and must be deconstructed. The world of sport must therefore have sufficient means to allow the release of speech concerning the physical or psychological violence suffered by certain athletes. The possibility of practicing in complete physical and emotional security, in a climate of confidence, is the first step towards the quality of physical and sporting activities, as well as a sine qua non for their promotion. Furthermore, I know, Madam Deputy Minister, how involved you are in this fight.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u409	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u410	I don't dare to say that I agree...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u411	Yes, I do!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u412	Don't worry, he's okay!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u413	... and I will therefore only ask you to withdraw your amendment because, failing that, the opinion of the committee will be unfavourable. But you will understand my feeling!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u414	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u415	Same opinion. I expressed my pride at seeing the ministry finally devote itself to its regal tasks, putting an end to forty years of omerta about sexual violence in sports associations – as elsewhere, since these revelations, parts of the sports community, are now also of interest to other ministries. The protection of the public has become a real mission: you yourself have inscribed it in the law of 24 August 2021 that reinforces the respect of the principles of the Republic, which I thanked you for, because it is an important cause for me as well as for our services. The associated budget now amounts to 2.2 million, i.e. it has doubled; It is intended for 19 sports associations that have responded to a call for projects to prevent, raise awareness and inform about the content of the law, which can and cannot be done in a club in contact with children. These associations have been financed in this respect; Employment aid has enabled them to structure themselves. For example, Clayfoot Colossus now employs twenty-one full-time people, against one person, a volunteer, when we came into contact three years ago: that is to say, the scale of its information and awareness work. Our first ethical and integral re-entry led us to check the criminal record of 2 million volunteers, thanks to the automated judicial file of perpetrators of sexual or violent offences (FIJAISV), with the help of Éric Dupond-Moretti. We have mobilized our networks of referents, engaged the federations by renewed delegation contracts, which will be signed soon; In addition to this territorial organization, there is the immense contribution of the officials of the ministry, who gather the testimonies, transmit them, strengthening the link that must exist in this area between administration and justice. I wanted to thank them – on your behalf too, Mrs Petit, because I know you are very attached to this cause, especially overseas.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u416	Mr Alain David has the floor to support Amendment No 646.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u417	Several recent public reports have highlighted the fact that illiteracy is largely over-represented in ultramarine territories. According to the latest data available from 2019, the proportion of young people aged 16 to 26 who have difficulty reading is 11.8% nationally. However, in Guadeloupe, Martinique and Réunion, it reached 30%. The purpose of this amendment is to create and finance modules for school support and the fight against illiteracy and illiteracy as part of the further deployment of the universal national service in the ultramarine territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u418	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u419	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u420	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u421	The fight against illiteracy and illiteracy is indeed one of the tasks of the universal national service. The latter must contribute not to their care, because the accompaniment must be carried out in depth and over a longer period of time, but to their detection. The UNS must be universal and the young ultramarines are not destined to accomplish it overseas but rather in other territories – in the metropolis, for example – in order to discover their diversity. The amendment thus drafted does not meet the objective, which is why I will give an unfavourable opinion, but the missions to combat illiteracy and illiteracy are included in the UNS programmes.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u422	I call Mr Michel Larive to support Amendment No. 519.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u423	We want to echo the concerns of the National Union of Associations of Parents, Persons with Intellectual Disabilities and Their Friends (UNAPEI), which alerted us to physical and sporting activity in the missions of medical and social institutions and services. Indeed, 56 per cent of persons with disabilities have already been limited in their sports practice, which automatically excludes them from this field of social life. UNAPEI has identified at least two barriers to their sport: the lack of trained personnel and the lack of access to infrastructure.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u424	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor to support Amendment No. 570.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u425	This is again an appeal amendment. We propose the creation of a fund for sports associations, whose cash flow has been undermined by the Government's policy. First, the confinement stopped all the associations. Secondly, the restrictions have been maintained so long that many practitioners have not been able to renew their contributions. End-of-year activities that usually raise money, such as games and parties, could not take place last year either. Since the beginning of the school year, the introduction of a sanitary pass has put a brake on the sports practice of adults and also of children from the age of 12. Associations face almost insurmountable cash flow difficulties. In the face of this, the annual spending for the Olympic and Paralympic Games of 2024 is enormous. I would like to take this opportunity to refer to the Games, Madam Minister Delegate, to remind you that you have, no doubt unintentionally, forgotten to answer me about the gold medal that Steven Da Costa won in karate and the importance of this sport at the 2024 Games in Paris. Emmanuel Macron himself said that the athletes may not have been at the best of their form –...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u426	No, not quite!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u427	[[Mr Maxime Minot applauds]] ...these are his words,not mine! – and that it would be a shame to do without a gold medal, especially if it is won by Steven Da Costa, a super champion from Lorrain of which we are proud. It would indeed be regrettable if our country were to lose a gold medal in karate!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u428	You already know the result?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u429	What is your position, Madam Deputy Minister?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u430	What is the committee's opinion on the amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u431	He's unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u432	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u433	[[Caroline Fiat applauds]] Madame Fiat, I love karate and I really appreciate Steven Da Costa, whom I met in Tokyo. I personally pleaded for karate to be one of the disciplines of the Paris Games and asked the IOC to do so. However, the decision was taken by the IOC and the OCOG, which had agreed before I even arrived; I was therefore unable to intervene or give my opinion. We must stick to what the IOC and the OCOG have decided on the Olympic and Paralympic Games programme. [[Applause on several LaREM benches]] We will continue to promote karate and support Steve to bring back more medals for the Da Costa family – a historical family in the discipline, whose father trains Steven himself! – and for France. Indeed, there are not only the Olympic Games, there are also world and European championships. Steven will be committed to defending his country and pursuing education through sport and karate with young people in his neighbourhood and territory. It is a mission in which he is heavily involved and to which I know you are attached, Member.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u434	[[Mrs Véronique Hammerer protested]] Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u435	But no, dear colleague, you should encourage me to speak! Thank you, Madam Deputy Minister, for your warm answer to my heart. I know there are other championships, from the world or France, but the Olympic Games remain the Olympic Games. I thank you for the fact that France has insisted that karate be present there. Then how can we all, in a trans-party way, convince other countries? Let us work together to ensure that karate, which was present in Tokyo, is also present in Paris! To the extent that we are the ones receiving the Games, I think we may have, a caulia,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u436	Our word to say!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u437	...the possibility of achieving this. There are indeed other championships in which Steven Da Costa will participate, but let's not forget the future Steven Da Costa and the karateka women.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u438	Thank you, Mrs. Fiat.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u439	Thank you, Madam Minister Delegate, for taking action to ensure that karate is present at the Paris Games in 2024.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u440	The Special Rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 1349.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u441	This is an appeal amendment. The draftsman and Mr Castellani explained earlier the difficulties that associations sometimes encounter in filling out certain documents, asking for EUR 5 million for this. I think we don't necessarily need that amount. You understood that I was in favour of FDVA and that I found that system right. On the other hand, it is true that it is sometimes difficult for associations to return to the fund, either for the same project, or to resubmit the association's operating budget and re-examine the same steps. With our team, we help them do it, and it takes time. This appeal amendment proposes that applications already registered be retained from year to year.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u442	All right.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u443	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u444	I call for the amendment to be withdrawn because, in the current budget, there is the development of two tools, the "asso" and the "data-asso", which are intended to satisfy it, in the spirit of the "Tell us once". To date, 700000 euros have already been invested in these two projects, whose first concrete progress was to be made very quickly, by the beginning of next year – or, I hope, for the end-of-year celebrations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u445	She agrees with you, but she's against it! It's the "at the same time"!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u446	I put to the vote the credits of the Sport, Youth and Associative Life mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u447	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 40 Number of votes cast 39 Absolute majority 20 For adoption 31 Against 8
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u448	I have two identical amendments before me, Nos 1229 and 1279. The Secretary of State has the floor to support Amendment No. 1229.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u449	The amendment, the result of work carried out by several Members of the majority, aims to consolidate the rate of 20%, which corresponds to the amounts deducted from the inactive accounts and paid to the FDVA. Conforting the budget of the FDVA means sustaining the source that feeds it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u450	The Special Rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 1279.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u451	The idea, in fact, is to make the rate of the levy which feeds the FDVA, which is based in particular on the sums placed on life insurance contracts in disinherence.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u452	I call Mr Cédric Roussel to support Amendment No. 638, which is the subject of a sub-amendment No. 1352.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u453	On numerous occasions since the beginning of the health crisis, I have proposed, together with my colleagues from the presidential majority, more specifically from the study group "Economy of sport", the creation of a tax credit "Olympic Spirit 2024" in order to support the sponsorship for fiscal year 2022 and to sustain this financial support for French sport until the Olympic and Paralympic Games in Paris 2024. The impact of the health crisis on all companies – large and especially small – forced them to make budgetary choices. These arbitrations often took place at the expense of the communication budget covering expenses related to sponsorship, the sports partnership, which fell by an average of 30%. Sponsoring is an important financial manna for sport in France, where this market represents a volume of almost 2.5 billion euros. Contrary to preconceived ideas, this market is equally beneficial to local sports associations and professional clubs. For the 197800 sports associations that benefit from a sponsorship contract, this resource represents funding of almost 870 million euros per year and almost 10% of their business model; 90% of the sponsorship contracts of sports associations come from SMEs, which are largely weakened by the crisis. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] I would therefore ask the Government to submit to Parliament, within three months of the enactment of this Act, a report on ways to encourage the sport partnership expenses of companies with a view to hosting the Olympic and Paralympic Games in Paris in 2024. After three years of the Games, we must seriously consider a boost from the state in order to mobilize all companies in our territories to support sport and its financing.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u454	The Special Rapporteur has the floor to support sub-amendment No. 1352.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u455	I am very much in favour of your amendment, to the point that I think a period of three months, after consultation with the department, is too short. That is why I propose in this sub-amendment that this deadline be increased to six months.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u456	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u457	The Government supported the amendment and subamendment of the Special Rapporteur. This will allow us to go further in the work already started with sports federations and professional clubs on the social and environmental responsibility of sports organisations. We intend, within the framework of the agreements for the delegation of sports federations, to encourage them to put these themes forward. It is a question of how they will be able to attract new patrons, who will not only be sponsors, but genuine partners contributing in an innovative way to their economic model. Indeed, the health crisis that we have experienced has allowed them to position themselves on topics that go beyond the organisation of sports competitions. It is not only about the display of a sponsor's name on a jersey or in a sports venue, but also about a commitment to animation and partnership in order to promote the values that are theirs beyond sports practice, the values that they defend on a daily basis.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u458	We have completed the review of the Sport, Youth and Associative Life Mission credits. The continuation of the budget discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-25-O1031.u459	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Questions to the Government; Solemn vote on the draft law on the financing of social security for 2022; Further to the discussion of the second part of the 2022 Finance Bill: Review of Defence and Veterans Affairs Votes, Memory and Nation Linkages. The meeting is adjourned.
