ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u1	The next item is the questions on the development of wind turbines in the territory. I would remind you that the Conference of Presidents has set the maximum time limit for each question and, Madam Minister for Ecological Transition, for each answer as well. We begin with the questions of the IDU and independent group. Mr Guy Bricout has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u2	Madam Minister of Ecological Transition, I wish you all the best, on my behalf and on behalf of Sophie Auconia, who would have liked to be with us. A word comes to mind from the beginning of my speech: concern. I am worried about developments of wind in our territory, of course. The Hauts-de-France region where I am elected has no less than 25% of the national park, my city, Caudry, is surrounded by wind turbines: I know what I'm talking about. The overall acceptability of wind energy is a myth: in the Hauts-de-France, 70% of projects are contested before the courts. I therefore welcomed the establishment by your predecessor, Elizabeth Borne, of a working group on the acceptability of wind turbines. I attended its first meeting on February 18, but I am surprised, four months later, that I have no news of it and that I have not seen any of its proposals that were originally to be known for the spring. Madam Minister, when we have this document, what fate will you have for its recommendations and within what framework? I am also concerned about the serious pollution problems caused by blades that we still do not know how to recycle. How long are we going to agree to degrade our soil? Finally, I am concerned about the many outstanding issues regarding the impact of wind turbines on human and animal health. Local residents complain about various disturbances. Farmers, many of them in my territory, have experienced major problems in their farming since the installation of wind farms near their farms: animal weighting, declining milk production, and brutal deaths. Of course, experts are appointed and investigations are being carried out, as in the municipality of Mazinghien, where studies are increasing, but the results are not known. Is it not time to launch an independent and comprehensive study, in which all the problems identified in our territory, the health and environmental impacts of wind turbines, and the different assumptions that are emerging, are being addressed?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u3	The Minister for Environmental Transition has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u4	First of all, I would like to wish you all a good year since, since the beginning of 2021, I have not yet come to this Chamber where I am very happy to meet you.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u5	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u6	Mr Bricout, I am concerned about the possible health impact of wind turbine development, particularly on livestock. A general inspection mission is under way on a particular case, well known to some of your colleagues, on a possible link between wind turbines and animal health. Its findings are expected to be made public in the near future. In addition, ANSES, the National Agency for the Safety of Food, Environment and Labour, was seized to assess the accountability of wind turbines for disturbances observed in cattle farms. Its conclusions are expected in 2021. Then we will all see more clearly. I think that will reassure a number of people. As for the working group on the acceptability of wind turbines, it met once with parliamentarians, then three times at a technical level with representatives of various associations – from communities, landscapers, the wind industry, the defence of heritage or the environment – and the administrations concerned. The working group identified several avenues for achieving our wind energy development objectives, while preserving its acceptability. I am also an elected member of Parliament, and in the Somme, I can also see the effects of sometimes insufficient consultation. On the basis of this work, the ecological defence council of 8 December last took action several measures for the harmonious development of wind turbines, aimed in particular at reducing the luminous nuisances of wind turbines, to improve cooperation at the stage of development and to allow better territorial planning of wind turbines – a point which I think I will have the opportunity to develop later.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u7	Mr Thierry Benoit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u8	As a Member of Parliament, I have a duty to denounce a situation. In 2013, under the presidency of François Hollande, the Government made the choice to remove wind development zones – ZDE – which were tools for planning and regulating wind turbine installation across the country. What have we seen since then? French or foreign-owned companies set up an administrative office in a department, took out the cheque book in front of some landowners, farmers and mayors, and launched their projects. These are often located on the outskirts of the receiving municipality, with their effects felt more strongly on the neighbouring municipality, creating tensions in the territories. I alert the Government: it is necessary that the zoning of these facilities be included in the appropriate documents: local communal and intercommunal planning plans and territorial coherence schemes or SCOT. We need to have a real regulatory tool. Guy Bricout has already mentioned the second question I wish to address, to which I associate Sophie Auconia, Member of Parliament for Indre-et-Loire. Many months ago, our colleague Yves Daniel, Member of Parliament for Loire-Atlantique, here, undertook extensive work on the health effects of wind turbines, and in particular on the potential consequences of magnetic waves. I say it as I think it is: our colleague Yves Daniel is not sufficiently supported in his work, in his action, in his decisive approach to the health aspect of wind energy and magnetic waves.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u9	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u10	You're right, Mr. Benoit: we need better wind planning. I really do. We sometimes have the impression that wind turbines grow like mushrooms everywhere, without knowing where they will come out of the ground, which creates the feeling of being somewhat dispossessed of the choice of this mode of energy development. Nevertheless, the PPE – multi-annual energy programming – contains commitments that we must fulfil. But how is it possible to reconcile everything, to ensure that each territory takes its share, so that the same ones are not always involved? We need planning. In order to reconcile the various objectives, we will include a provision in the future draft law on combating climate change and strengthening resilience to its effects, a text resulting from the work of the citizen climate convention. A regional breakdown of the PPE's renewable energy objectives, in consultation with regions and communities, will allow these objectives, including wind energy, to be divided according to the potential and specificities of each region. The bill will also provide that the SRADDET – regional planning, sustainable development and territorial equality schemes – will have to contain energy objectives compatible with this regional distribution, which will then be included in territorial planning documents to be legally enforceable. In addition, the Green Defence Council of 8 December stressed the need to improve wind development planning at the territorial level, in order to secure the possibility of achieving the objectives of the EPP. As a result, I will ask the regional prefects to engage in mapping of areas suitable for wind development, in consultation with the local actors, whose communities are at the forefront. This mapping will not be legally enforceable, but it can be used as a guide to communities when updating urban planning documents. This will, however, be more flexible than the EEZs while filling in the same object.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u11	Mr Grégory Labelle has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u12	Wind energy is a subject of tension in our country. The installation of wind turbines is not carried out in a calm and concerted climate, and there is a great deal of distrust: 70 per cent of land wind turbine installation projects are currently being appealed to the administrative courts. Former mayor of a municipality of the Somme where major wind turbine installation projects are planned, I myself have found that the possibilities of recourse by local elected officials have decreased since 2013: neither the SRADDET nor the territorial air-energy climate plans – PCAET – nor the SCOTs are prescriptive. If the French and French mostly dispute the installation of the land masts, it is because they feel they are being fooled. They refuse to see their landscapes distorted by the installation of masts that are not irreproachable either ecologically or energetically, while their cost limits research on real alternative energies such as hydrogen, tidal energy, hydraulics, geothermal energy or nuclear fusion. I am not against wind energy, but I contest the role it is being given, that of a key element in the energy transition that will keep us away from nuclear power. Wind energy will not allow a real energy transition that will remove us from nuclear power because its cost is too high and its efficiency is too random. More expensive, wind energy is also less reliable. In addition, it is not exempt from environmental discredit: each wind turbine represents 1500 tonnes of concrete reinforced underground, and 50 tonnes of scrap metal. Associations keep alerting about the impact of terrestrial masts on biodiversity. Wind turbines kill not only some birds but also damage the quality of life of residents. Today is the beginning of the so-called century affair: four non-governmental organizations accuse you – they accuse the state, so they accuse you, Madam Minister – of failing to act properly because of your failure to reduce greenhouse gases. A Member of Parliament for La République en marche believes that wind turbines do not support decarbonisation in France and says: "On the day when people really understand that this energy transition does not serve the ecological transition, you will have a reaction of rejection of policies, accused of having lied. » Why continue to want to make wind energy a key element of the energy transition when its use does not allow us to separate from nuclear energy in the long term and its cost prevents the acceleration of the search for alternative solutions including geothermal energy?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u13	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u14	Your speech contains many questions that I will try to answer, but also many received ideas. You say there is a general opposition to wind turbines in this country. It's not true: studies show the opposite. If they had to deal only with the appeals against wind turbines, the courts in that country would not be very bottled up. Only 6% to 14% of the projects are opposed by the mayors of the settlement communes, which means that they are approved in the vast majority of cases.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u15	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u16	So let's try to keep it right! I feel like I always come back to the same subjects. It is perfectly legitimate to be opposed to wind energy and to make it public in the public debate, but we must work from the facts. I will no doubt hear about the rare earths and the recyclability of wind turbines – for this last point, it is already done. It turns out that wind turbine recycling, which is developing, will become an obligation – let's say that it will not be a question of burning the blades. We are moving forward, especially on the excavation of the basements. I will also hear about the biodiversity and the cost of this energy. Currently, wind energy costs about 60 euros per megawatt hour, as much as we are far from the delusional prices advanced by some. In this respect, wind supports comparison with other energies, including nuclear energy.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u17	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u18	Let us try to get out of the received ideas and work on facts on which I can answer you with great pleasure.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u19	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u20	Mr Jean-Luc Warsmann has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u21	First of all, Madam Minister, I would like to share with you one observation: the many wind projects that have emerged in recent years in my department, the Ardennes, have mostly been set up in collaboration with the elected representatives and smoothly with the population. However, the situation has changed completely: the proliferation of projects and, above all, the lack of coordination have now led to the hostility of an increasing number of inhabitants. I deeply regret the time when legislation provided for wind development zones, which allowed for the regulation of projects, but the future is not built on regrets. After this observation, I want to testify to the approach that we are currently taking in my department as part of the plan to revitalize the Ardennes, called "accord de développement territorial des Ardennes", which two ministers came to sign in Charleville-Mézières on 15 March 2019. In collaboration with the elected representatives, the urban planning agency of Reims, which has won the market, is currently developing a wind landscape plan which aims to define three types of zones: those considered saturated, where no more projects are desired; those where there are no or few wind plants, but where there is no wish for them because of a landscape issue; Finally, those where settlements are possible, but after a discussion with the elected representatives to define the distances between the wind turbines and minimize the impact on the landscape. This plan will not be legally enforceable, but our prefect is waiting a lot for him to base his approval or refusal decisions. In addition, in the coming months, it will be integrated into local planning plans. What do you think of this approach, with a constant right? Shouldn't it be promoted or even generalised in the departments to promote the development of pacified and reasoned wind turbines?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u22	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u23	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u24	The approach that has been initiated in the Ardennes, as you describe it, seems to me quite in line with our philosophy, since it allows – it is very important – to identify enough wind-friendly areas to achieve the objectives of the EPP. The aim is to stop launching very general objectives in the air at national level and then look at whether they fall back correctly on territories. Basically, whatever the method, from the moment it is participative, that it involves the elected representatives and, in one way or another, the people, and that it respects the objectives of the PPE, everything is fine with me! The mapping that will be prepared by the prefects will determine, in each territory, the areas where, as you point out, there is a remarkable landscape to preserve or another activity to protect, in short, to make wind turbines an element of the economic development of the territory. Indeed, it is not said enough: when they are properly set up, wind turbines bring additional income to farmers and communities, revive the countryside and return the activity. A good wind farm organization will highlight this positive aspect. You also mentioned the participation of citizens. I believe that citizens' projects for the development of wind turbines, through which citizens would appropriate these energy production tools, could be much more numerous. Very widespread in the countries of the North, they begin to appear in France; They would also promote the acceptability of wind turbines.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u25	We turn to the questions of the group La France insoumée. Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u26	It is the technology of renewable energy production that is developing most today in France, a constituent element of the contemporary collective imagination, a symbol par excellence of sustainable development and the energy transition: wind turbines, these machines that produce electricity thanks to the power of the wind, arouse a lot of enthusiasm, with reason, but also more and more criticism, even within the ecological currents that question the economic and ecological model of their development. The stakes are high. Climate change requires the removal of greenhouse gas-emitting energies, and nuclear energy is not a solution for the future: it does not address any issues – neither the independence of supply, nor the safety of facilities, nor the management of waste, nor the financial costs. So we have to get out of both at once. It is an exciting technical and human horizon, and several studies, that of the negaWatt association like that of the Agency for the Environment and Energy Management – the ADEME, now called the Agency for the Ecological Transition – have shown that this was possible by 2050. In France, we are defending energy transition planning on a two-pronged basis: sobriety, energy efficiency and the development of renewable energies such as wind turbines, but under ecologically sustainable and socially just conditions, which are therefore acceptable. At the moment, on these two aspects, not to mention the objectives announced in the field of production, we are still far from the point of view. One particularly crucial point seems to us to be the involvement of elected officials, citizens and associations in wind energy projects, in particular through forms of citizen co-operatives. Indeed, the more meaningful and meaningful the participation, the greater the acceptability of projects, and this type of initiative often generates, as you said, the Minister, economic benefits two or three times greater than private projects. In our view, to be successful and accepted by the population, the necessary ecological planning must be eminently democratic. This type of device therefore needs to be developed more and more.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u27	Thank you, Mrs. Obono!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u28	What is your strategy and how do you promote this dynamic?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u29	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u30	Mrs Obono, I share many ideas that you have just mentioned. First of all, we must succeed in achieving the already ambitious objectives of the PPE. We often criticize them: they would be too much this or not enough that. What interests me is their implementation: we must at least reach those we have assigned ourselves. As for planning, as I said earlier to your colleagues Jean-Luc Warsmann and Thierry Benoit, it becomes an imperative from the moment we set our goals and we want to decline them in the territories. Otherwise, I said, we throw them in the air and wait to see if they fall back properly. This is why regional planning, sustainable development and territorial equality schemes have been foreseen to contain regional energy objectives compatible with the EPP, which will be set out in territorial documents in order to be legally enforceable. The mapping carried out by prefects will have to take into account the topographic, urban or landscape constraints of each territory, as well as the opportunities. It will also have to take into account the views of each other: that of the communities, of course, but also of associations, economic actors, businesses, in short, of the entire ecosystem of a territory. Contrary to what some speakers have put forward in speaking of acceptability, this ecosystem can, in my view, succeed in bringing out projects, particularly cooperative ones, which can strengthen the acceptability of wind energy, as is the case in the countries of the North, to make it an intrinsic part of the development of a territory and not a constraint. Let us not forget that we want to promote decarbonised electricity and that it needs the development of wind turbines.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u31	Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u32	Wind turbines appeared in La Réunion in 2005: there are two operating sites representing 60 machines and producing 50 megawatts. Other projects are pending, but there is a serious threat to this sector. Indeed, support for wind turbine projects in cyclonic zones – this is the case for La Réunion – is governed by the decree of 8 March 2013 laying down the conditions for the purchase of electricity produced by these installations in order to achieve by 2030 the objective of energy autonomy, enshrined in the law on the energy transition for green growth. This rate is 23 cents of euro per kilowatt hour over the first ten years, with a degressivity mechanism for the following years. However, the CRE, the Energy Regulatory Commission, considered that there were too many projects in this area and wished to change this tariff. The Ministry has therefore worked on a draft decree, drafted without consultation, reducing this tariff very significantly to 12 cents of euro per kilowatt hour, i.e. a loss of almost 50%. The SSC – the Higher Energy Council – has issued an unfavorable opinion on this draft text, the tracks for the deployment of wind turbines exist, but if even before they are deployed you will cut the wings to this sector, it will not work. Can you tell us if this order is going to be published or, as I wish, will you abandon it? On the other hand, should we not democratize this energy production? Agricultural land, for example, can perfectly accommodate wind turbines. As these could produce more than needed to cover the energy needs of a farm, the surplus could be resold to EDF, which, in addition to energy autonomy, would represent a cash flow for operators. Finally, could the new silent and robust machines not be installed on the roof of buildings, thus providing the energy needed for these buildings? Here are some examples, Madam Minister, on which I would like to hear from you.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u33	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u34	Indeed, as you know, CRE is a regulatory body. She studies economic data and, without forcing us, she encourages us very strongly,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u35	She doesn't have to!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u36	... in view of these developments, to change prices. So yes, we are going to take this decision, but we are making sure to preserve the ongoing projects, particularly in Reunion, in connection with the PPE on the island. As I do not have in mind the details of the order, I cannot immediately give you a precise answer, but I will look carefully at it. In any event, we seek to take account of the economic developments in the territories. We want the same thing as you: to develop wind energy, but also other renewable energies, to apply the PPE. If there are opportunities that we would not have seen, projects to support that could be put at risk for a bad reason, we will of course try to find a solution. Once again, our wish is to respect the objectives of the EPP while taking into account the injunctions of the CRE, because if we do not do so now, we will have to make adjustments later, which would not be good for anyone.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u37	We come to the questions of the Freedom and Territory Group. Mr Paul Molac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u38	Minister, I'd like to ask you about the offshore wind. We are late on this issue compared to countries such as Denmark, where offshore wind has been in place for a long time, but I note with great interest that the state has announced its intention to speed up the deployment of offshore wind, especially floating wind, seeing it as a new industrial opportunity for the creation of a French sector. These projects are the subject – and I welcome it – of very extensive public surveys, which allow them to be adjusted according to the observations and remarks made by the local people, the elected representatives and all the actors working for the common good of this country. But as you know, these projects are often poorly accepted, especially because of local impacts. Thus, the development of three projects in Brittany, including one planned south of the island of Groix in the department of Morbihan, is a matter of debate and I am surprised by some reactions. The President of the Brittany region has put forward some proposals to maximise, in accordance with Community rules, the possibility of using local labour, the competences of the territories, and the financing of the resources and services produced by local industrial actors, so as to develop an offshore sector directly in France, particularly in Brittany. What do you intend to do to make these proposals possible and concrete?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u39	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u40	Mr Molac, it is true that when it comes to wind at sea, we are late, and we are now trying to "catch up" this delay to get into the PPE nails. That is why we recently launched a park in Normandy.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u41	Without consultation!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u42	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u43	Mr Jumel, your group will have the opportunity to ask questions a little later!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u44	Excuse me, I'm extremely shocked by what I just heard. We can return to the public debate in Normandy where, for the first time, we worked upstream on zoning...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u45	Without the fishermen!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u46	... and where a great deal of time has been taken to carry out the dialogue, which is a great step forward from previous practices.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u47	Without the fishermen!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u48	Mr Jumel, in a few moments you will be able to ask yourself a question and you will certainly be happy not to be interrupted, nor will the minister wish to be interrupted when she provides you with some answers.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u49	That feeds the debate, Mr President!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u50	Madam Minister, I invite you to reply to Mr Molac!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u51	I will indeed reply to Mr Molac concerning the development of offshore wind. You mentioned the need to make it an engine for the economic development of the territories. This objective is precisely one of the elements contained in the specifications drawn up in the context of wind projects: we want these projects to contribute, wherever possible, to territorial development. Everything cannot always be done in the same territory. We have seen this in particular for wind farms located off Picardie: a plant has been installed in Le Havre, where many jobs will be created to build wind turbines. However, wherever possible, the objective is obviously to encourage local development: we want to produce French wind turbines, using French materials and employing French personnel. This specification is currently being drafted. I will be able to answer other questions on offshore wind, particularly regarding EEZs – exclusive economic zones. The same applies to the question of the acceptability of wind turbines: we are currently working to develop the public debate in order to define the areas concerned in advance and to create all the conditions for things to go well, including with regard to respect for biodiversity. I'll come back.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u52	Mr Jean-Félix Acquaviva has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u53	As the first generation of wind turbines arrives at the end of their lives, the question arises of their recycling. While the industry rightly notes that some 90% of the materials used in the construction of wind turbines are recycled, it often fails to mention that they are more often masts and foundations. The remaining 10%, rotors, are more problematic. Indeed, they are often composed of a mixture of epoxy resin, polyester, carbon and fiberglass. In addition, each blade contains electronics, anti-fouling wire or adhesive. For the time being, this heterogeneous mass has limited recovery prospects, except by heat treatment. In our discussions on the law on the fight against waste and the circular economy, Secretary of State Brune Poirson had ruled out the creation of a PR channel – extended producer responsibility: she preferred to rely on the regulation of facilities classified for the protection of the environment. That's why we're wondering: where do we stand with the objectives of valuing wind turbine blades? Are we witnessing an industrialization of the recycling industry? Has the regulation evolved to impose new modalities for the treatment of wind energy waste? To deal with global warming and the destruction of biodiversity, the question is no longer just how to produce clean energy: the challenge is also, as we all know, to limit pollution throughout the product life cycle.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u54	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u55	These issues of recyclability and excavation are important, as addressing them helps both enhance the acceptability of wind turbines and better protect the environment. A ministerial decree amended in June 2020 specifically provides for the systematic excavation of all the foundations of the wind turbines, to the base of their soles, and deals with their recycling. It is well established in the current regulations that at least 80% of the total mass of the wind turbines dismantled from 1 July 2022, including foundations, will have to be reused or recycled. This target will be increased to 95% for wind turbines whose authorization files will be filed after January 1, 2024. Due to their composition, blades are indeed the most difficult elements to recycle. This is why a path to gradually improve their recycling was laid down in the decree of 22 June 2020. For example, a first objective is to reuse or recycle at least 35% of the rotor mass for wind turbines dismantled from 1 July 2022. To go further, more ambitious targets have been set for wind turbines whose files will be filed at a later date: 45 per cent of rotor mass will have to be reusable or recyclable for files filed on or after January 1, 2023, and this proportion will have to reach 55 per cent as of January 1, 2025. We are therefore making progress on these issues.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u56	We come to the questions of the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left. Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u57	We are discussing offshore wind at a time when you are detricting EDF by negotiating in catimi with the European Commission the sausageing of this industrial floret and the auctioning of what could enable the development of renewable energies. What information can you provide on this file? If we are in favour of a balanced, intelligent energy mix in which wind turbines have their place, in accordance with the PPE we have approved, we argue that wind development is incompatible with shareholder logic. Whenever the logic of shareholder takes over a subject like this, it is negation of rural territories, the mugging of agricultural fields – I pass on the way in which elected representatives are treated, including through practices that are not in conformity with ethics. In the same way, when we apply the shareholder logic to wind projects at sea – those of Tréport and Courseulles are the illustration – we sit down on the conflicts of use and we break down the artisanal fishing! The CNDP, the National Commission for Public Debate, had recognized this: the Tréport Park should have been moved. Nicolas Hulot himself considered that the project had been poorly carried out and that it should have been taken into account that it was located in the most important breeding area of the territory and therefore threatened its fishery resource. This is clearly a case for the development of a national scheme for the establishment of land wind turbines and for planning that respects elected representatives and territorial democracy. With regard to wind at sea, I would like to point out that Normandy will be affected by Brexit and that the playing field for fishermen will be reduced, since the postponement of fishing effort, particularly by Dutch sailors, will come into the Normandy fishery. The planning of offshore wind projects must take these issues into account and take into account the lives of fishermen. What is your opinion on these important issues?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u58	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u59	With regard to the Hercule project, I refer you to the exchanges we had with your fellow senators last night, following, in fact, an initiative by the communist, republican, citizen and environmental group. I confirm – which I am sure will reassure you – that the Government's intention is to maintain an integrated public group and that the negotiations under way are aimed precisely at enabling this large French group, EDF, to remain the flagship of the energy transition, by simply giving it the means it does not currently have to undertake the necessary investments to invest in the field of renewable energy and to cover the costs of its nuclear fleet. I would like to warn once again that if these negotiations do not succeed, we will have to find a plan B. However, for the time being, there is no alternative solution to adequately finance EDF's costs. As far as offshore wind is concerned, I too have experienced what happened at Tréport: I have seen the mistakes that were made at the beginning and which must serve as a lesson for us in the future. It is true that zoning was thought, initially, without sufficiently involving the different actors...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u60	Thank you for saying it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u61	... and without thinking about the consequences it might have. As a result, everyone, including project proponents, understood that it was an absolute mistake to proceed without consultation and without taking into account fishermen and the local ecosystem. The lost time was not caught up and weighed on the following projects.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u62	We can fix it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u63	Yeah, now. That's why I reacted a little loudly when you referred to the new projects, Mr Jumel: we are trying to learn from past mistakes. That is how I am convinced that we will continue to improve.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u64	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u65	The development of wind turbines is, everyone sees it, an extremely important question, which particularly affects me, since it is at the heart of the news in my department of Allier, where a public inquiry is being conducted into a wind farm project in the municipalities of Bransat and Laféline. This project, which includes six 241-metre-high wind turbines, crystallises the opposition of many citizens. In Allier, the multiplication of wind farms projects thus creates real tensions in several points of the territory and increasingly sows the trouble among the Bourbonnais, whether directly or indirectly affected. This deployment without genuine consultation must cease, as it poses a problem of form and substance. On the form, at the very least, the public should be better informed and consulted by referendum, rather than launching a public inquiry into the pandemic between 15 December and 15 January. In substance, if I wish wind energy to find its place in a balanced way in the necessary development of renewable energies, it must not develop in an anarchic way or according to the goodwill of private promoters more concerned with financial stakes than with the preservation of the environment or the planning of the territory. In addition, the increasingly large equipment installed will significantly change the appearance of certain sectors and weaken their attractiveness, while, in a more favourable environment for rural areas, the development of tourism is progressing. That is why I am calling for a moratorium on all ongoing projects, pending the planning to which you referred. I also call for a public energy service, which would prevent private interest groups from investing without taking into account local realities. This would allow for a better distribution of the network and a more appropriate deployment. What do you think?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u66	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u67	Parliament has adopted ambitious targets for the development of electric renewable energy: I would remind you that 40% of electricity generation in France will have to be renewable in 2030.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u68	Good luck!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u69	To achieve these goals, we need wind energy. The studies show that renewable energy contributes significantly to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions: according to TEN – the electricity transmission network – the French wind and solar fleet avoided the emission of 22 million tonnes of CO in 2019. This corresponds to the annual emissions of more than 2 million French. This sector also contributes to our security of supply: wind power production covered more than 7% of French consumption in 2019. However, the current situation of tension on the balance between supply and demand shows that being too dependent on a single technology is a weakness. A more diversified electric mix is more robust, as it is less sensitive to different hazards – CQFD, if I may say so. Wind energy also creates local jobs. The wind industry had created more than 20,000 direct or indirect jobs in France as of December 31, 2019. Finally, terrestrial wind energy is one of the most competitive renewable energies, as I mentioned earlier: the price of wind electricity has risen in a few years from 80 euros to less than 60 euros per megawatt hour. It is thanks to public support that technology has been able to improve and show such cost reductions. I have said it and I will repeat it several times: the Government is aware of the need to strengthen the acceptability of wind turbines among the population. We're working on it. The ecological defence council has adopted several measures to reduce light nuisances, improve cooperation at the development stage and allow for better territorial planning of wind energy, which will be included in the draft law on combating climate change and strengthening resilience in the face of its effects, which you will be considering in the coming months. For all these reasons, a moratorium on wind would be disastrous for the energy transition, even though we must fight climate change more than ever before. I am therefore very opposed to that, as is the case with the rest of the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u70	This has nothing to do with it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u71	It's never too late to do the right thing!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u72	We come to the questions of the La République group on the move. Mr Yves Daniel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u73	Since many things have been said, I will endeavour to provide additional elements. Let us be clear: like all the French, we are not opposed to wind energy, but we want, together with the local elected representatives, to be actors in the further development of wind energy, which must be carried out in a secure manner and take into account the risks of nuisances. I am thinking in particular of the question of public health posed by electromagnetic waves, which some have already mentioned: too many problems arise as soon as certain wind farms are built, especially in farms, where electromagnetic waves seem to affect the health of animals, but also that of residents. As you said, the Ministry of Ecological Transition and you yourself are very committed to this issue. I would like to thank you for that, because this has not always been the case. I, who have been fighting for many years on this complex but important issue, have been denied many appointments. I would therefore like to thank you and your services. The aim is to find the causes of malfunctions. If science cannot explain these phenomena at the moment, however, on the ground, the analyses of geobiologists – I mean radiesthesists, magnetizers or sourcing – which rely on the reality of the facts and empirical science, make it possible to adjust the positioning of the masts on the ground in order to avoid the impact of electromagnetic waves. It is simple: we must move from distrust to trust and from coercion to membership.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u74	Mr President, we must conclude.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u75	How can we ensure that impact assessments take into account all the necessary elements in order to ensure that new projects do not cause nuisances? Geobiology should be recognized in French law.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u76	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that the time allowed for questions is two minutes. It is not for me to be too strict, but to ensure fairness and equality among all speakers when speaking. The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u77	Mr President, you are constantly proposing that the opinions of geobiologists should be taken into account in the impact studies of wind turbines, on the grounds that they would be such as to inform the discussions on health effects on humans and animals. Whatever the facility in question, the health effects must of course be analysed in the impact studies, the content of which is largely determined by European law. However, the concept of geobiologist does not seem to be sufficiently defined today to ensure that consideration of this type of analysis in the impact assessment is included in the law with a binding effect. We do not have enough elements for this. A general inspection mission is underway on a particular case that you and some of your colleagues have submitted to us, with some geobiologists worried about a possible link between wind turbines and animal health. As you know, since you have been involved in this mission, its findings should be made public in the near future. In addition, an ANSES referral is also under way to assess the accountability of wind turbines for disturbances observed in cattle farms. Its conclusions are expected in the course of 2021. When we have these elements, we can see if we can go further. At this point, it's still a little premature, but I'm sure we'll have an opportunity to discuss it again.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u78	Mrs Olga Givernet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u79	France's energy transition objectives are ambitious. You regularly refer to multi-annual energy programming. You're right. You also quote the SRADDET. I would like to point out that this scheme is unfortunately not prescriptive. There are many broad principles, but the absence of obligations makes it difficult to apply them in practice. If we want to keep up with our PPE objectives, it would be important for us to be able to refer to this scheme. By 2030, 40% of electricity generation must come from renewable energies. We cannot ignore the forecasts that indicate a 60% increase in electricity requirements in the world by 2040. The deployment of new wind turbines is therefore essential. However, wind energy has limitations and constraints: it depends on climatic conditions and is intermittent. Sometimes production is zero, sometimes it is too important: these are the hazards of wind energy. We must take advantage of this surplus electricity generation. The recovery plan foresees a budget of EUR 7 billion for the development of decarbonated hydrogen, i.e. green hydrogen. The production of this energy source would have a carbon balance equal to zero over its entire life cycle. Other European countries have chosen to store energy from wind power production by transforming it into hydrogen. To be the energy of tomorrow, hydrogen must be decarbonized in its production. How could the deployment of the wind turbine in France be used for the green hydrogen production strategy?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u80	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u81	With regard to the very important issue of hydrogen strategy, several steps need to be distinguished. In the short term, the TEN analyses show that the current sources of flexibility of the electric mix are sufficient, up to about 2030-2035, taking into account our renewable energy development objectives set out in the PPE. The use of hydrogen to cope with power consumption peaks is therefore not necessary during this period. Our priority objective for the hydrogen strategy is the decarbonization of current direct uses of hydrogen, for example industry and heavy mobility, in addition to all-electric solutions that will not be able to meet all needs. In this regard, our French hydrogen strategy, announced last September, sets a target of 6.5 gigawatts of electrolysis by 2030. The Government is giving itself the means to massiveize the production and use of hydrogen with an envelope of 2 billion euros for 2021 and 2022. In order to produce decarbonated hydrogen, electrolysis requires large amounts of renewable or low-carbon energy. The proactive policies for the development of electric renewable energy and decarbonated hydrogen are totally complementary. Moreover, beyond 2035, studies show that there will be a need for greater flexibility linked to the development of electric renewables, regardless of the choice of energy mix made at the next quinquennium. The hydrogen produced by electrolysis can then offer an interesting energy storage solution among others. It is therefore necessary to distinguish between these two stages: for the moment hydrogen is being industrialized, electrolysed and concentrated on the direct uses of hydrogen that exist today. The use of hydrogen in other cases, in particular for its storage capacity, will take place at a later stage.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u82	Mrs. Sophie Panonacle has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u83	Wind at sea is an essential energy in our energy mix to achieve our sustainable and decarbonized development goals. The second largest maritime facade in Europe, France has great potential to develop this competitive sector with significant socio-economic benefits for our territories. Indeed, the sector promises to create more than 15,000 local jobs by 2030. The efforts of the Government and the publication of the new EPP on 23 April have helped to enhance France's offshore wind objectives. Yet, with an ambition set at more than 6 gigawatts by 2028, our targets remain far below those of our European neighbours. By comparison, Germany has set a target of 20 gigawatts by 2030. In his policy speech on June 12, 2019, Prime Minister Édouard Philippe said he was ready to "increase the pace of future calls to 1 gigawatt per year." In addition, by reducing the time-limits for allocation and litigation, the simplification provisions that I have defended under the law on the acceleration and simplification of public action, known as ASAP, will also speed up the implementation of wind projects at sea. I would like to take advantage of this debate to recall the possible synergies between offshore wind and aquaculture. Indeed, the development of shellfish farming on the high seas, backed by wind platforms, is an extremely interesting prospect. The development of wind energy at sea in France requires an ambitious medium- and long-term vision so that we have concrete visibility on upcoming calls for tenders. So could we consider launching a maritime planning mission in order to anticipate our future capabilities and thus give France the means to meet its potential?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u84	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u85	Madam Member, I know your investment on these issues. Multi-annual energy programming sets ambitious targets at national level until 2028, declining by seafront until 2022. The next PPE, which will cover the period, 2024-2033, will set new targets for offshore wind at maturity 2033, which will also be declined by facade. In addition to these energy objectives, strategic maritime facade documents, which were the subject of public consultation, were prepared in 2019. They identify areas suitable for wind at sea and allow consideration to be given to the different uses of the sea. A link between the EPP and the maritime policy documents is necessary in order to allow for offshore wind energy planning that takes into account both our national energy objectives and local specificities. As you have pointed out, the ASAP law, to which you have contributed, ensures the strengthening of this planning because it makes it possible to organize public debates on several wind projects at sea for the same maritime facade, which allows us to project ourselves in the future and to really anticipate. Taking fully into account the challenges of maritime space development, the debate is more coherent and offers the public visibility over several years. That is how we must proceed on this issue. You're talking about the trail of shellfish farming. Why not? Various solutions are emerging during the deployment of this sector, which is only in its infancy. Waiting to see what the expected "reef effect" will achieve, this could be very interesting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u86	Mr Didier Le Gac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u87	To achieve the target of 40% of electricity generated from renewable energy in 2030, wind, both on land and at sea, represents a key potential and challenge that we must clearly support. With regard to wind at sea, the ambition shown by the new EPP is an offshore capacity which will reach 5.2 to 6.2 gigawatts by 2028, which I welcome. Today, in France, unlike Northern Europe, no offshore wind farm is yet in operation, but the Government's action has made it possible to simplify and speed up the installation of wind turbines at sea, thanks in particular to the adoption of the law for a state at the service of a trust society, known as ESSOC, which gives greater visibility to the EMR – marine renewable energy sector. Thus the first offshore park laid, that of Saint-Nazaire, is expected to enter service in 2022, followed by seven others by 2026. In Brittany, where the degree of energy dependence is very high, we naturally pay close attention to it. The expectation is now very strong with regard to the first calls for tenders for the offshore floating wind turbine, and no longer set, from this year 2021. On the ground, the situation is different. Of course, the first wind farms that are now more than twenty years old, as is the case in my constituency, are now asking themselves the question of their renewal. In this regard, the so-called repowering technique of extending the life of a park in order to increase its profitability and optimize its operation seems to be an option to be valued. It has the advantage of relying on known data in terms of available resources and wind conditions. In addition, the reconfigured fleet also benefits from the already existing infrastructure: accesses, delivery stations or connections. Last but not least, these sites are already well integrated and therefore accepted by the population. I had already interviewed the Government on this subject some time ago to have a feedback on the application of the Government's instruction of 11 July 2018 on the evaluation of projects for the renewal of land wind farms. We know that it is primarily for the prefects to assess on a case-by-case basis the substantial nature of the changes requested. Minister, can you please let us know the status of the renewals of existing wind farms?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u88	Very good question!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u89	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u90	In the face of the difficulties we have in identifying land for the establishment of new wind farms, repowering is obviously an important lever for renewing the parks, increasing electricity generation and thus achieving the objectives set by the EPP in this area. In most cases, the end-of-life power increase operations of wind farms are accompanied by relatively limited variations in their impact on the protected interests of the environmental code, so that the prefect is fully justified in imposing complementary requirements, but the amendment is not considered to be significant. Where such changes are more significant, the Prefect may consider the change to be substantial, triggering a new authorisation procedure, including a new public inquiry, which is somewhat heavier. As you said, in July 2018 the Government issued an instruction on the assessment of land wind farms renewal projects. It clarifies the rules for renewal projects and gives operators greater visibility in the choice of technical solutions to be used for further operation and their facilities. We continue to have exchanges with the industry, as we will be doing throughout this year, in order to identify, in the light of the modest feedback we have from this instruction, the possible difficulties encountered in repowering projects and the means to respond to them. Just as we are taking initiatives in the fight against artificialisation, so we are currently trying to ensure that the repowering process is used as much as possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u91	Mrs Jacqueline Dubois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u92	The development of renewable energies is in line with the President's commitment to green diplomacy and contributes to the reduction of our carbon footprint. Our common responsibility is to act by developing a strategy adapted to local resources and specificities, in partnership with elected officials and the population. There is a massive investment in wind energy and many initiatives are flourishing. However, it is sometimes difficult to win the support of citizens. For example, in the Dordogne, no wind farm has been set up, despite numerous attempts. A single implantation project in the western part of the department is prefecturally authorized, but it is challenged before the Council of State. In the north of the department, four projects are under preparation and all are deeply discontented. The oppositions of the associations are lively, those of the elected representatives are frequent and several projects are at a standstill: in Verteillac, the town hall opposes a project; Milhac-de-Nontron is the deputy; elsewhere, a project to install five wind turbines is being fought by the residents; To the south, it was a collective that was right about a project consisting of eight wind turbines. In Dordogne, associations, elected representatives and residents are committed to preserving the historical heritage and authentic landscapes and protecting the tourist assets and ecosystem by opposing the establishment of wind farms. Since winds are low, terrestrial wind is not perceived as useful or relevant, as opposed to offshore wind. To avoid this anarchy of private initiatives doomed to failure, would it not be preferable to build a territorial strategy for the deployment of renewable energies, with elected representatives and the population, in order to define with them the relevant and acceptable projects for a given territory?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u93	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u94	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u95	Madam Member, you are absolutely right: we need to better involve the people so that they can take these land projects together. In order to combat global warming, but also to make our energy mix more resilient, we collectively have a responsibility to achieve our renewable energy development goals, including those related to terrestrial wind. Multi-annual energy programming must be respected. Each territory must take its part: there is no reason for this to be the case only in certain regions; All must participate, of course, taking into account their potential and their specificities. The issue of acceptability was crucial and the Government was working on it. The Environmental Defence Council has taken several steps in this direction, to reduce light nuisances, to improve cooperation at the development stage, and to allow for better territorial planning. All the exchanges I have had for many months show this: there is a need for visibility, the actors want to see it clearly and be involved. As you know, wind farms are lit at night to ensure aviation safety, which is an embarrassment for residents. Measures to reduce light nuisances will be tested shortly. The results of the experiments, expected at the end of six months, will help to define a timetable for the deployment of measurements to the entire wind farm. On the subject of consultation, article 53 of the ASAP Act provides for the transmission, one month before the submission of the application for authorisation, of a non-technical summary to the municipality of establishment of an wind energy project. In addition, the Environmental Defence Council has decided to draw up a charter of good practice, signed by the State and the wind industry, providing that the project leader must seek the agreement of the settlement municipality from the start of the project. I've already had the opportunity to talk about planning, so I won't be much longer. SRADDETs will have to contain compatible energy targets. The prefects will map the suitable areas so that these objectives can be included, in a concerted manner, in the planning documents.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u96	We turn to the questions of the Republican Group. Mr Xavier Breton has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u97	Minister, I would like to ask you about the divisions arising from the development of wind farms. Beyond the normal parliamentary debate, like this morning's, there are also divisions in our territories. Wind energy, far from consensus, raises questions about its energy efficiency, its economic and budgetary cost, the financial benefits that may be generated by certain companies in the absence of national industrial channels, its health effects, in particular on animal health, its impacts on the environment, wildlife and landscapes, and recycling arrangements. There is also a very significant social impact with tensions and divisions in the territories. What then is the role of the State? The State should be, impartially, the guarantor of the public interest. However, it is the opposite, bills after bills: the exceptional regulations put in place favours societies living from the development of wind energy; a degree of jurisdiction has been removed in litigation – when the threat of abuse simply does not deter residents from going to court –; wind development areas have been removed, etc. Reference should also be made to the decisions taken by the State at the local level. For example, in Confrançon, in the department of Ain, a project to install three 180-metre-high wind turbines had received an unfavourable opinion from the investigating commissioner.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u98	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u99	This did not prevent the State services – which were in favour of the project – from taking a decision in the direction of the creation of the wind farm. Minister, what do you intend to do to put an end to these divisions and tensions in the territories?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u100	Thank you, Mr. Breton. The additional few seconds you have used will be imputed – perhaps – on Mr Aubert's speaking time...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u101	Why me?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u102	[[Smile]] Because you're the next registrant! The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u103	Mr Breton, you say that wind energy creates social tensions, but it also creates activity in the territories: the wind industry represents 20,000 direct and indirect jobs and more than 600 companies of all sizes are active in the French export market, with an increase of 11% since 2018 and even 25% since 2016. The plants are starting to grow and soon wind turbines will be built entirely in France. The jobs are divided into several sectors of activity: studies, development, component manufacturing, construction, operation, maintenance. Wind energy creates jobs close to the facilities and contributes to the dynamism of the territories. Let us not stop at the only drawbacks – for which we are trying to find solutions – but let us also show that renewable energies represent a potential for development for territories that have sometimes undergone desertification and de-industrialisation, in which activities can be revived. However, you are right, the development of wind energy must be done correctly by drawing lessons from mistakes made in the past. We are now making sure, through planning, to give visibility to local actors in order to build territorial projects. Fostering consultation is what we have decided in the Ecological Defence Council, and this will be included in the climate and resilience bill. We need to respect multi-annual energy programming, not only to combat climate change, but also to have a more resilient and diversified electricity production system. To do this, we need all types of renewable energy, including terrestrial wind. So we're going to work on consultation, planning, which will allow us to build beautiful land projects that will help us deal with tomorrow's challenges. That's what we all want, I'm sure.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u104	Mr Julien Aubert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u105	Minister, I would like to take the opportunity of this question session on the development of wind turbines in the territories to ask you about the progress of the working group on the balanced development of wind energy in France. Announced during the question-and-answer session to the Government on 3 December 2019 by Ms Emmanuelle Wargon, then Secretary of State to the Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition, his aim is to examine the landscape of wind turbines. Xavier Breton told you about the divisions, and I'm going to tell you about multiplications, subtractions and additions. With regard to multiplications, at the ecological defence council on 8 December, various guidelines were adopted. These are far from reassuring, as reflected in the first line of the summary document that "the achievement of our renewable energy objectives is a priority." Smells like the multiplication of wind turbines! What about the words of the President of the Republic who, a year ago, in Pau, said: "The capacity to develop wind energy massively is reduced. We can do it where there is consensus, but the consensus on wind energy is clearly weakening in our country. » Is there a reversal? The above-mentioned document states: "Some territories have a high density of wind turbines, which can lead to a sense of saturation. If local density exceeds a certain threshold, a regulatory mechanism will be provided. » What about this regulatory mechanism? What is its concrete formula? Will the Commission take into account the presence of historical monuments in the vicinity of wind farms projects and their co-visibility? This brings us to the subtractions: do you remove wind turbines if there are too many? Finally, we move on to the additions. In the December 8th report of the Environmental Defence Board, we read: "Today, only 20% of the territory is accessible to wind turbines. As part of these constraints are related to aviation safety needs, in particular military radars, a joint mission of the Ministries of Environmental Transition and the Armed Forces will have to identify, by March 2021, technical solutions for the release of space in the areas of radar exclusion most favourable to the installation of wind turbines. So we're going to add territories. Minister, does this mean that you intend to sacrifice the interests of national defence to deploy wind turbines in the territories? Finally, why are not all local elected representatives associated? I am thinking in particular of the President of the Hauts-de-France region who has publicly indicated that he has not been consulted.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u106	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u107	With regard to the well-known working group on wind energy, consultations and consultations have taken place, and even several times. Perhaps the President of the Hauts-de-France region has a short memory: a meeting was held with my predecessors and several bilateral meetings were held. Three meetings were held with all stakeholders – NGOs, elected associations and sectors – at the end of 2019 and in the first half of 2020. The work then continued to draw conclusions that were set out in the document presented to the Ecological Defence Council on 8 December 2020, which you have read carefully, and which I particularly welcome.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u108	It's my bedside booklet!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u109	[[Smile]] The questions you ask show – it's fun – that we read the documents in the prism of how we want to interpret them. This must question us, and lead us to produce as precise documents as possible. The fact that we wanted to achieve our goals and develop land-based wind turbines – which are one of the tools we need to diversify our electricity mix – does not mean that we want to do things any way. The purpose of the ecological defence counsel was precisely to promote acceptability. As we have mentioned on several occasions, I will not go back to the various planning tools that we are going to implement and that will be discussed in the coming months when we consider the climate and resilience bill. We have a problem of space: today, only 20% of the national territory can accommodate wind turbines, due to various and varied constraints, particularly related to radars. In collaboration with my colleague Florence Parly, Minister of Armed Forces, we have worked to identify areas where wind turbines could be installed. Why? Because wind farms are often concentrated, which leads to a sense of saturation in some places. To limit this feeling of saturation, we must find new settlements: this is the whole purpose of the work carried out with the Ministry of Armed Forces. You can count on me to ensure that the planning is carried out and that consultations continue to be conducted in order to find the best solutions to achieve our objectives.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u110	Mr Jean-Marie Sermier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u111	For several years, farmers whose animals are installed near wind masts have alerted us to the health of their animals. For cattle, for example, they point to a decrease in milk production, and even problems with calving. A study of the GPSE, the permanent grouping for electrical safety in agriculture, around the wind farm of the Four Lords, in the Loire-Atlantique, concluded that the installation of wind turbines and the appearance of disturbances in animals were concomitant. As long as there is suspicion for the animal, it is logical, necessary, and even urgent to consider the consequences of wind turbine activity on human health. In my region, Burgundy-Franche-Comté, we have serious testimonies from families, followed by neurologists, who show that after the installation of a wind turbine near their house, they suffer from sleep disorders, tinnitus or headaches. Scientific studies appear to show that these symptoms are related to low frequency sounds or infrasons emitted by blades and wind turbine engines. For example, a 2017 German study showed that wind turbine infrasounds precisely stimulate areas of the brain that cause behavioral disorders in humans. In France, the Academy of Medicine recommends a prospective epidemiological study on the subject. For my part, I remain humble; I am not a scientist, however, it seems to me that we have enough worrying evidence to take the subject very seriously. Needless to say, the precautionary principle is enshrined in the Charter of the Environment, which is itself based on our Constitution, and is often invoked in the environmental field. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] My question, therefore, is simply this: in view of the increasing number of consistent indications that wind turbines have a negative impact on human health, do you intend to apply this precautionary principle by introducing a moratorium on the installation of new masts on French territory?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u112	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u113	I reiterate that the Government is opposed to a moratorium and have explained the reasons for this in response to a previous question. I would point out that, since 2011, terrestrial wind turbines have been subject to the legislation on installations classified as part of environmental protection. Consequently, the installation of wind turbines is subject to an environmental authorisation issued by the Prefect on the basis of an impact assessment carried out by the petitioner, a study which evaluates the effects of the project on the environment, taking into account, in particular, health issues. In addition, in order to ensure the safety of residents and to limit park nuisances, the Environmental Code imposes a minimum distance of 500 metres between the said parks and residential buildings, which may be increased on a case-by-case basis, based on the findings of the impact assessment and hazard studies. The prefect may therefore require a greater distance if the need arises and the stakes so require. It may also request the relocation of the wind turbine installation from the original project or even decide not to authorize the construction of all the wind turbines in the project. Aware of the nuisances that can be generated by wind turbines,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u114	That's not enough!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u115	... the ministries of the economy and health have seized the ANSES on the health effects of low frequency waves and infrasounds due to wind farms. His investigations have led him to confirm that current knowledge of potential health effects associated with low-frequency or infrasound exposure does not justify changing existing limit values or extending the current sound spectrum.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u116	What about the precautionary principle?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u117	In addition, the Academy of Medicine has taken up the issue of possible health risks associated with wind turbines and the desirability of changing the minimum regulatory distance. On the acoustic aspect, his report, published in 2017, points out that the role of infrasounds, often incriminated, can be reasonably excluded in the light of known physical, environmental and physiological data and that, in any event, the noise nuisance of new generation wind turbines does not seem sufficient to justify a distance of 1000 metres. These are the elements that we have at our disposal. As I said in response to Yves Daniel and other requests, new studies are under way on a particular park. We'll see what they'll give.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u118	Mrs Nathalie Bassire has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u119	In order to support wind projects in non-interconnected cyclonic areas, a decree set the conditions for the purchase of electricity produced by land wind turbines at EUR 220 per megawatt. This was necessary in order to see projects emerge and to achieve the objective of energy autonomy set out in the Energy Transition Act. It is also within this framework that the Réunion PPE project, which you mentioned earlier, envisages production of more than 80 megawatts. However, a few months ago, the CRE alerted about the risk of a speculative bubble due to the too many projects planned in Guadeloupe. As a result, DGEC, the Directorate-General for Energy and Climate, has drawn up a draft decree aimed at significantly reducing the rate for the purchase of electricity from EUR 220 to 120 per megawatt. It was drawn up without consultation with professionals or regional bodies, and received an unfavorable opinion from the Higher Energy Council on 15 September. Needless to say, such a decree could lead to a sudden halt to the development of wind projects in the ultramarine territories. That the CRE considers that there is a risk of economic imbalance in the sector, that is, but it is more than essential, in order to save these projects, to engage with all the players in the sector in order to set a tariff more adapted to the objective of energy transition in the NZs, the non-interconnected areas. Following an exchange with various stakeholders, it appears that some of them believe that projects below EUR 180 per megawatt would not be viable. Minister, I would like to know your position on a possible agreement that would allow ground wind development projects in Réunion and the other DOMs to emerge.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u120	[[Smile]] The minister has the floor. Only for two minutes, I'll call you back.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u121	I'll be careful, Mr. President. In the case of anticyclonic wind, the new conditions need to be adapted and, in this respect, a change in costs is necessary because the tariffs were too high. The CRE has alerted us to this on many occasions. It was therefore absolutely necessary to see them again. I stress that the new decree preserves the ongoing projects, which help to achieve the objectives of the EPP, in particular that of La Réunion. While several remarks were made by the Higher Energy Council, these were taken into account, leading to further consultations with all stakeholders, and on several occasions – some were held before the SSC took a position. The tariffs are obviously fixed on the basis of the available data and we will discuss with the CRE the expected evolution of the costs to define the tariffs on the territories, knowing that new data could make a difference. We rely, I repeat, on the available data. Therefore, please do not hesitate to provide us, if you wish, with any additional information. But, at this stage, I assure you that the ministry has been extremely careful to ensure that the EPPs are respected and the ongoing projects are preserved.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u122	We come to the questions of the Group of the Party of European Socialists and Related Democrats. Mr Christophe Jerretie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u123	I have already heard a lot of questions and answers in this House, but I am going to talk about a subject that is not very much dealt with: wind financing. Various reports, either from parliamentarians or from the REB's deliberations, have analysed government grants awarded under past years' commitments. Let's make a little bit of financial history, as in the case of photovoltaic contracts, during the budget review for 2021: State compensation is estimated to total about 120 billion for the commitments made for photovoltaics and wind energy, including 60 billion to 70 billion for wind energy. As we worked with you last year, Madam Minister, on the renegotiation that you will begin on the photovoltaic contracts concluded before 2021, I logically ask myself the following question: Is it possible to put the wind turbine financing system down as well? The evolution of the overseas buy-back price has just been mentioned, and you have explained it a little, Madam Minister, but there is still a lot of unanswered evidence on the evolution of contracts at national level. This first part of my question refers to the financial history of the links between the state and these sectors, because I believe that there is a substantive work to be done in this area, which also concerns the acceptability of wind turbines, a subject which has already been mentioned a great deal. It should be recalled that this acceptability is also a matter of cost to our national budget. The second element I wanted to mention is the financial future and therefore anticipation. Our colleague Didier Le Gac mentioned one important factor: the renewal of parks. We know that in some countries there are bankruptcies and that sites are left behind. Today, the state provides up to €50000 for producers or promoters in this case, but I think that much more needs to be done to finance disassembly and recycling. And I would like to know if the ministry is really following up on the purchase of wind farms or wind systems in the territory, because that will be the basis for future wind farms financing. I thank you in advance, Madam Minister, for your answer to this double question and of course I invite you to Corrèze to visit both our wind farm and our hydropower facilities.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u124	[[Smile]] Two minutes twenty!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u125	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u126	The development of electric NREs, including wind energy, is a Government priority to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and strengthen the resilience of our mix. It is therefore legitimate for them to receive public support to accelerate their development. And thanks to this support, their competitiveness has improved significantly over time. Thus, in the latest tenders launched by the Ministry, the price reached about 60 euros per megawatt hour. This public support is not opaque: it is awarded to the project after a transparent competition procedure, supervised by the CRE, an independent administrative authority. These support schemes are also notified to the European Commission, which ensures that they are proportionate. The REC publishes an annual evaluation of the public service costs generated by renewable energy support. You can find on its website the answer to the first part of your question: from 2015 to 2019, support for wind energy cost the state 5.9 billion euros. As regards financial guarantees in the event of failure of the operator, the technical and financial capacity of the operator shall form part of the components of the application for environmental authorisation. In addition, wind turbine operators are required to provide financial guarantees to cover, if they fail to do so, the decommissioning of production facilities, the excavation of foundations, the restoration of land – unless the owner does not wish to do so – and the recovery or disposal of demolition or dismantling waste in the lines duly authorised for this purpose. A decree of 22 June 2020 increased the amount of guarantees required for the most powerful wind turbines since, from now on, the €50000 you mentioned is added an additional amount of €10000 per 1 megawatt if the machine has a power of at least 2 megawatts. As a result, larger wind turbine operators are now subject to greater obligations. Finally, I would like to point out that the transfer of an environmental authorisation must be the subject of an application for authorisation addressed to the Prefect.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u127	Mr. Patrick Loiseau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u128	The various direct support for wind energy amounts to between 72 and 90 billion euros, of which 54 billion have already been spent, with the aim of reaching 15% of the electricity produced in France in 2025 by this sector instead of 7.2% today. Meeting this target means increasing the number of land-based wind turbines to about 15,000 by 2028, as well as significantly increasing the number of offshore wind farms. However, the planned extension of the terrestrial wind industry raises an increasing number of complaints from associations reporting disturbances. Wind energy, without directly inducing pathologies, affects the quality of life of a part of the residents by its sound and visual nuisances. In addition, the only way to increase the electricity potential of land-based wind turbines is to have larger engines, hence higher masts, and therefore even lower acceptability. The MoDem Democratic Movement and related democrats Group supports the rational development of wind energy in France in order to avoid excessive densification and saturation in certain territories. We proposed in the information report by our colleague Bruno Duvergé, on the obstacles to the energy transition, several recommendations for a better territorial acceptability, in particular the re-use of wind farms at the end of their lives to re-install more efficient machines rather than the establishment of new wind farms, the creation of a network of wind advisers, etc.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u129	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u130	...regional or departmental planning to help communities better integrate wind projects – a very important measure for us. We also proposed that the granting of environmental authorisation should be conditional on consultation and agreement by the municipalities concerned with the establishment and operation of a wind farm and, finally, the promotion of systems that reduce the sound and visual effects of wind turbines. Minister, these recommendations seem to us to be fundamental to the future of wind energy. What is the status of these various proposals today?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u131	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u132	The Government has taken action on all the recommendations you mentioned. With regard to the re-use of wind farms, an important lever to renew the parks and increase the production of renewable energy in order to achieve the objectives of the EPP, a regulatory simplification was introduced in 2018 clarifying the fact that changes to a wind farm do not require an administrative act in the area of urban planning, which simplifies the re-use of the sites. The Green Defence Council on 8 December endorsed the establishment of a network of wind and solar advisers to support communities wishing to develop renewable energies. The Government will co-finance this network to the tune of €5 million over the next three years and ADEME will, in the coming weeks, launch a call for expressions of interest to form this network so that it will be operational in the autumn of 2021. As far as regional or departmental planning is concerned, the same environmental defence board stressed the need for improvement in order to ensure that the objectives of the EPP are achieved. The regional prefects, in consultation with the communities and stakeholders concerned, will develop a mapping of wind-prone areas. It will not be binding, but can serve as a guide for communities in updating urban planning documents and guide project leaders to these areas. The draft law on combating climate change and strengthening resilience to its effects will include measures to improve the planning with a regional decline of the EPP's renewable energy objectives, and the integration of energy objectives compatible with these variations into the SRADDET. I now come to the consultation with the municipalities. Article 53 of the ASAP Act provides for the transmission of a non-technical summary to the local authority one month before the application for authorisation is submitted. The Environmental Defence Board decided that a charter of good practice would be signed between the State and the wind industry. Finally, with regard to light nuisances, measures will be tested shortly, the results of which are expected within six months.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u133	Mr. Jimmy Pahun has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u134	25 kilometres west of Belle-Île and 25 kilometres south of the island of Groix, these islands that Marielle de Sarnez loved, to which we pay tribute, is an area on horseback on the limit of territorial waters – the famous 12 nautical miles band. This area of 525 square kilometres will consist of two wind farms: one, over 38 square kilometres, will produce 250 megawatts, the other, over 70 square kilometres will produce 500 megawatts. There will be a total of sixty 88-metre-high masts, each representing the ambition we have set ourselves through the PPE, that of the energy mix in the service of the ecological transition. The Britons are 100% dependent on their energy. I am in favour of this because everyone has to take their part in the fight against climate change – one cannot indeed ask his neighbour for efforts that one is not willing to consent to himself – and because the wind turbines will be in the distance, barely perceptible – nothing comparable with the terrestrial wind turbines. To these ecological imperatives, economic motivations must be added. We have to build in France a real industrial sector in the field of offshore floating wind, a sector producing value and jobs. The expanding floating offshore is becoming more and more efficient. I believe you attended, Madam Minister, the laying of the first wind turbine off Saint-Nazaire. Its efficiency will be 30% higher than that of all other wind turbines – because it is at sea. However, work must be done to ensure that the project is acceptable. I therefore strongly advocate that wind turbines should be laid away from the coast and that the area in question should become a place dedicated to the preservation of marine biodiversity, beyond the 12 miles mentioned above. I would like to know whether a fee is provided for settlements beyond 12 nautical miles. The objective would be to facilitate the acceptance of a project to deploy wind turbines located away from our coasts. Who would be the beneficiaries? The fishermen, I hope, but also the OFB, the French Biodiversity Office, and the communities. I would like to associate our colleague Frédérique Tuffnell, who is also very much in favour of offshore wind turbines off the island of Oléron, with this question.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u135	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u136	You mentioned Marielle de Sarnez, Mr. Pahun. I learned with great sadness his disappearance. I associate myself with your pain and extend my deepest condolences to his family, his loved ones, his friends. The acceptability of offshore wind projects is essential if we are to develop this sector calmly in order to achieve our energy transition objectives. The challenges of landscape conservation and biodiversity, but also of cohabitation between users of the sea, are central to the choice of park locations. In Normandy, in view of the results of the public debate, I chose an area more than 30 kilometres from the coast, taking into account environmental constraints, fishing and maritime traffic. Wind farms located in the territorial sea, less than 12 miles from the coast, are subject to a tax. For the new Norman park, it will amount to EUR 17 million per year and will be distributed among coastal municipalities, fisheries committees, OFB and rescuers at sea. Beyond 12 miles, in the EEZ, the exclusive economic zone, the situation is different, as you pointed out: the law provides that parks will be subject to an annual fee which will be paid in full to the OFB. It is desirable to bring the situation of parks in EEZ closer to that of parks in the territorial sea, so that communities and users of the sea also benefit from the taxation of wind farms. That is why a mission has been entrusted to the general inspections of the ministries concerned, which should in the coming months make us proposals in the direction you wish – at least I hope so.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u137	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u138	We come to the questions posed by members of the Socialist and related group. Mr Gérard Leseul has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u139	We found a few weeks ago, and still earlier, that the North and Grand Est regions are concentrating the vast majority of wind installations. Let us say it frankly: others could also take their part and contribute to the great French project of energetic transition. This fundamentally raises the question of territorial solidarity in the transition effort. In keeping with the national social contract, it is the shared efforts and territorial solidarity that will enable us to face the major environmental challenges, starting with the production of renewable energy. My question is simple: why not consider a better supervised development of wind turbines, planning through real territorial mapping? Together with our colleagues Jean-Louis Bricout and Marie-Noëlle Battistel, on January 5, we tabled a bill defining a potential zoning of wind turbines. The development of these IPZs would be led by local elected representatives and not by the State. The adoption of this zoning would require a qualified majority to promote compromises and widest adherence to the scheme. The PIZ project will have to be subject to an environmental assessment and public investigation, allowing associations and residents to be involved and heard in order to promote the social acceptability of installation projects. According to our bill, each SCOT and PLUI will have to have an annex defining a ZIPE taking into account the wind potential – corridors, environmental constraints, heritage, tourism – but also the objectives of local economic development and development in order for wind projects to contribute to it. These new IPZs would define a map consisting of three zones: areas where settlement is prohibited, areas where settlement is preferential and areas where settlement can be authorized. This would allow elected officials and citizens to take over the effective and more harmonious development of wind energy. I hope, Madam Minister, that you will agree to work with us on the definition of these IEZs. Finally, more generally, I would like to know what you are planning to do in practice and quickly to strengthen the social acceptability of wind energy and for its reasoned and ambitious development, a supervised development that respects local elected representatives and local realities.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u140	That's a good bill!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u141	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u142	Thank you because your bill brings many very interesting elements of thought. We are all trying to plan the rise of wind power to meet our objectives in the best conditions for the territories – which means that it will have to play a role in their development projects. You propose the establishment of ZIPE developed by the EPCI, the public institutions for inter-communal cooperation, on the basis of a regional variation of the EPP.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u143	That's what you want, too!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u144	In fact, we propose the same thing: a mapping, carried out by the prefects, and the integration of the objectives of the EPP into the SRADDET, the national objectives must "down" so that each territory takes its part. It will then be necessary to place the different cursors – the discussion of the future climate and resilience bill may be an opportunity. On the other hand, it does not seem desirable to restrict the benefit of public support to projects located in an area suitable for wind energy. Indeed, since the mapping exercise is not intended to be exhaustive in any case, there will remain unexamined areas which will not be labeled as suitable but which will not be particularly contraindicated either. There is therefore no reason to prevent, as a matter of principle, the installation of wind turbines at these locations. It is at the time of the issuance of the environmental authorization, on the basis of a case-by-case instruction on their impact, that wind projects can be rejected if the issues warrant it. All this articulation, we're going to work it out together. We'll have to make sure we don't unnecessarily shoot ourselves in the foot...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u145	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u146	We pass among the last... which, moreover, allows us to see that we are almost all of the same opinion on the acceptability of wind energy in our territories. Madam Minister, you are well aware of ours, the Thierache, which today has a sense of over-fullness: the development of wind turbines is anarchic and leads to a pitting of the territory. It runs counter to our tourism and cultural development projects and undermines our attractiveness. However, we are not against the wind turbine that must not be condemned – who could oppose the generation of electricity through the wind, which is a rather intelligent process? However, it is possible to organize its development more harmoniously. That is the purpose of the bill referred to by Mr Leseul, which we will discuss on the occasion of the next parliamentary niche reserved for our group. We have made some headway on the work of your working group, which aims to delineate and balance national wind energy objectives at the territorial level, while respecting environmental and heritage issues. We share the objective of distributing the effort set by the PPE. We believe, as our colleague, Leseul has pointed out, that local elected representatives should be given the tools for regulating and planning settlements by integrating these tools into SCOTs and PLUIs. This is in a way a return, in a better way, to wind development zones, in the sense that the zones will be defined more precisely. Finally, one of the keys to the energy transition is the acceptability that forms the link with the citizen. That is why we want to encourage the development of citizens' energy transition projects by accompanying the initiatives to which we must provide the means for their ambitions. [[Minister smiles]] This will be the subject of my question: how to accompany citizens' projects in the ecological transition, here concerning wind energy? We are counting on you to ensure that our bill is not wiped out of your hand, even if we adopt all your amendments...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u147	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u148	The organisation of the debate this morning wants your group's questions to be asked at the end of the day and to refer to topics discussed earlier. However, I will insist on some that I think are important. When you want to develop your territory, and you work very hard in Thierache, you have to consider that the deployment of the wind turbine contributes to it. I have never seen before that the tourist development of a territory has been prevented by the establishment of wind turbines. In several neighbouring countries, we can see that wind energy is much more developed than at home and that tourism is no less sustained. The question is how to articulate all this. That's why planning is important and your proposals are really interesting. The discussion will therefore focus on the way things are organised and not on the substance. Wind-related economic development is important. We were both elected to Picardie, a region that experienced deindustrialisation, a loss of activity, an increase in unemployment. But the development of wind energy offers precisely the possibility of reviving the activity, of reviving our campaigns. Let us try to ensure that this is done well, to avoid excesses or the repetition of problems that we have encountered, whether they are insufficiently concerted projects, or those that give our fellow citizens the feeling that wind turbines are growing everywhere without having the means to act. We must remedy this and our common projects must be able to prevent it, and ensure a certain predictability so that everyone can give his or her opinion. We must promote citizen projects that are much better accepted in that they give citizens the feeling that they are actors. That's what we're going to do in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u149	We turn to the questions of the Action Group. Mrs Agnès Firmin Le Bodo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u150	The health crisis, and it is quite normal, occupies most of our actions; However, environmental issues must not be neglected, so that the world of tomorrow is more virtuous. It is therefore worth recalling the need to continue the establishment of offshore wind farms. We must continue to work on the French energy model. Through the so-called energy-climate law and its multi-annual energy programming, France has set itself ambitious objectives for the development of wind energy at sea. Further development of offshore wind is expected to contribute to the target of 40% renewable electricity by 2030, as set out in the Green Growth Energy Transition Act adopted in 2015. In particular, the initial schedule provides for the allocation of approximately 1 gigawatt of new offshore wind capacity per year. Unfortunately, it is already widely questioned since the launch of the fourth national offshore wind energy tender is expected to take place only this year, after a series of successive delays that are damaging to our territory. This implies a final award of the tender at best in 2022. This regrettable new delay is damaging for the sustainability of this sector in our country, which nevertheless has strong natural assets and economic actors who have already invested and hired and wish to continue in this direction. Of course, I am pleased that the Government has announced new areas off the Cotentin for the establishment of an eighth park, even though to date no wind turbines have been laid in France off our coasts, yet so propitious, when our neighbours have already set up 2225 for the United Kingdom, 1469 for Germany, and 559 for Denmark. Thank you for telling us, Madam Minister, the next deadlines for the allocation of power but above all for the installation of wind turbines at sea.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u151	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u152	The Government, of course, intends to comply with the PPE's ambitious timetable for wind at sea. We are aware of the need to speed up and that is why the ASAP law has introduced new measures to simplify procedures for wind turbines at sea. In particular, it will make it possible to carry out the administrative stages of the park allocation procedure in a time-honoured manner, to pool public debates, and to reduce the period of litigation against projects, which could last up to five years before the law. In addition, a mission has been entrusted to the general inspections of the departments concerned to consider measures to simplify the administrative procedures for authorizing the parks, while maintaining, I will be vigilant, their environmental requirements. The eighth offshore wind farm project off Normandy has fallen behind due to the health crisis that led to the suspension of public debate. This fundamental step in choosing the location of the park could not be overlooked, as we saw with the previous park. The debate is now over and, taking into account its conclusions, I decided to launch the competition procedure in 2020, within the timetable laid down by the PPE. The Norman park will be allocated in 2022. In southern Brittany, the public debate on the project of floating wind turbines ended at the end of December. I will choose the location after the report of the Committee on Public Debate, scheduled for the end of February, has been submitted so that its conclusions can be taken into account. It will be the first commercial park for floating wind turbines in Europe. In the Mediterranean, a public debate is being prepared and should begin in the first half of the year. The two future floating wind farms could be located by the end of 2021. As you can see, we are making every effort to accelerate the development of wind turbines at sea. We intend to continue the momentum of the implementation of the PPE tender schedule and, together with the Minister of the Sea, we will soon seize the CNDP for potential new projects.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u153	Mr Jean-Charles Larsonneur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u154	The development of wind energy at sea is a major issue, both strategic and ecological, for the French energy mix. I am pleased that we have collectively managed to increase the volume of calls for tenders, both for wind turbines and for floating wind turbines, and that the ASAP law promulgated in December provides a welcome simplification for the players in the sector. Thus, in the south of Brittany, in the Groix and Belle-Île sector, two 250 and then 500 megawatt floating parks are to take over the experimental project under way. Nevertheless, France still falls far short of the results of its European neighbours, even though it has the second largest offshore wind farm in Europe: 140 gigawatts just for the float, which is a little more than our current nuclear fleet if we exploit all our theoretical capabilities. I would like to return to the structuring of a genuine French industrial sector, which creates activity and jobs in our territories, for floating wind. We haven't really been at the solar rendezvous and our delay is difficult to catch up with the wind. You have made extensive reference to planning, consultation and local and regional authorities, particularly in the area of financing. Will the fourth investment programme for the future be mobilised for the benefit of floating wind?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u155	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u156	Mr President, you are referring to the investment programme for the future, but as far as wind energy is concerned, we are dealing with different procedures. The offshore wind and wind programs are supported by public support tariffs for the development of NRTs. We have multi-year energy programming and, as I said to Mrs. Firmin Le Bodo, the Government wants to speed things up for wind turbines at sea, because it is true that we have fallen behind. We now want to meet our objectives because we see that the development of this sector, both in terms of employment opportunities, for the manufacture of wind turbine components and for the diversification of our energy mix, represents a huge opportunity for our economy; We need it. The wind at sea has fallen behind in France, but the Government is working to catch it, both on the offshore and on the floating, which offers other very interesting prospects as well. It is true that today we only have a floating wind turbine, at the inauguration of which I had the pleasure of participating, but it is the first of a long line.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u157	We're done with the Action Together questions. The last question of the meeting was raised by Mr Bruno Bilde.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u158	If France experiences a cold wave in the coming weeks, the world's sixth power could be without electricity. Indeed, what seemed unimaginable a few years ago today is a real risk. This is the sad result of your absurd, costly and polluting ideology. For a long time, our country had the best energy policy in the world, with Europe's cheapest electricity and one of the most reliable supplies. This fascist period is now over, as tricolor pragmatism has been swept away by green fanaticism. The French will now live under the reign of intermittentness, regular reductions in consumption and the continuous increase in tariffs. The dismantling of our nuclear industry and its replacement by wind is an economic and ecological scandal. On January 7, the nearly 9,000 wind turbines in our country produced just 946 megawatts, or 1% of the total electricity consumption of the French, because, you see, the minister, when there is no wind the wind turbines do not turn, and when they do not turn, they must be assisted with carbon energy. By comparison, Germany with its 30,000 wind turbines produces 64% of its electricity from coal and gas, sending 36,000 tonnes of CO per hour to the atmosphere. France, on the other hand, releases only 7,500 tons per hour thanks to nuclear power. In addition, the establishment of wind turbines is done against the opinion of the elected representatives and in the backs of the inhabitants, as in Vermelles, in my constituency. Madam Minister, when are you going to declare a moratorium?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u159	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u160	I am sorry that we are ending with words that are not useful in advancing the public debate. You talked about "green fanaticism." I don't think anathema is a good thing, and it's not a good thing to think about it. It's just a good thing to get angry. This does not help us move forward for future generations, who will depend on the choices we make today. Power generation is more than 70% linked to nuclear power. It's not because of green fanaticism. The measures of the EPP are gradually moving in and are far from having their effects. The problems we are encountering today are therefore problems linked to the choices made thirty, forty or fifty years ago, and not to those made a few years ago for the future, because they have not yet, or almost have not, borne fruit. When we have problems with electricity supply today, first of all they are managed. There is no blackout in France and there will be no blackout this winter. We have procedures to avoid it and the work is being carried out seriously. Then we suffered the crisis of covid-19, which meant that a number of our nuclear reactors, which must be regularly maintained, could not. Our problem is, therefore, that we have a very nuclear-dependent fleet, and when there is a problem on the nuclear side, such as maintenance delays, and reactors stop, we do not have a satisfactory alternative because we are either obliged to import or to use fossil fuels, even if this is less and less the case, because we are working on them. Fortunately, renewable energies are there because they give us flexibility, and that is why we want to rebalance our mix.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u161	We have completed the questions on the development of wind turbines in the territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u162	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u163	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u164	The next item is the debate on the conclusions of the report of the Committee of Inquiry on obstacles to the independence of the judiciary. The Conference of Presidents decided to hold this debate in two parts. As a first step, we will hear speakers from the groups and then from the Government; We will then conduct a question-and-answer session. Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u165	I am very pleased that we can debate in the Chamber the conclusions of the report of the Committee of Inquiry on the obstacles to the independence of the judiciary, which I chaired – it was not written by myself but by the rapporteur, Didier Paris, who will speak earlier. Why was this commission of inquiry set up? In short, because in our country there is a particular mistrust of the judicial authority, of justice. It is sometimes considered too slow, sometimes too fast, sometimes too severe, sometimes too lax, sometimes too complicated: in any case, trust does not prevail when it comes to justice in France. Does that have to do with the question of its independence? Yes, and besides, the opinion polls that are regularly conducted on the subject show that many French people still think – I don't know if it's right or wrong – that "depending on whether you're powerful or miserable, court judgments will make you white or black." This conviction remains entrenched and there are examples to support it. Do political power, the executive influence judicial authority and justice? This question often arises and there are also a few examples of this: I refer in particular to the judgment handed down by the Court of Justice of the Republic – CJR – against the former seal guard, Mr Urvoas, accused of having given information to a Member of Parliament on an ongoing investigation. The feedback is of course a topic that has occupied us throughout the hearings – more than fifty – that we conducted for several months. I want to reassure you, minister: we are here to discuss not the current cases but the independence of the judiciary and the conclusions of the report of the commission of inquiry. We are talking about independence, but should independence be total? Should justice be completely disconnected from the rest? I don't believe it, and no one actually believes it. Nevertheless, there must be a minimum – or rather a maximum – of independence for judges, so that they can do their job and the theory of the separation of powers is respected. Who is currently the guarantor of the independence of justice? According to article 64 of the Constitution, "the President of the Republic shall guarantee the independence of the judicial authority". Many constitutionalists strangle themselves just by reading this sentence. They ask themselves, in fact, what is this story: in the context of the separation of powers, how is it possible that the one who is responsible for guaranteeing the independence of one of these powers – certainly called "authority", I will return to it – will be at the top of the executive power? In fact, while some have assumed this practice, others have criticized it, each has experienced some discomfort when, in the Kohler case, the President of the Republic transmitted a note providing information to the investigation. He has the right to do so, I don't question him, but the embarrassment was palpable. Article 64 goes on: "It is assisted by the Supreme Council of the Judiciary. It is fundamental to me – and this is what the report of the commission of inquiry proposes – that the powers of the Supreme Council of the Judiciary – CSM – be strengthened, precisely to ensure the independence of justice. In my view, it is a keystone and I would like to make a number of proposals from the rapporteur, for example the one that calls for any magistrate to have access to it. I thought that was already the case, but it is not actually possible: as lunar as it seems, a magistrate, who observes a dysfunction relating to the independence, partiality or neutrality of justice, cannot refer the matter to the Supreme Council of the Judiciary. Similarly, he cannot take up a subject which he considers to be of major importance: he can only be seized by the President of the Republic. In fact, following our committee of inquiry, he made use of this possibility in relation to the case which, as everyone knows, concerns Mr François Fillon.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u166	Finally, the Supreme Council of the Judiciary does not follow the same rules concerning judges at the seat and those of the Public Prosecutor's Office, both for their appointments and for disciplinary proceedings. The report of the Committee of Inquiry proposes to align the two regimes – and not only to extend the use of assent. Prosecutors of the Republic should be subject to the same procedure as the heads of jurisdiction of the headquarters. Moreover, while the Constitution provides that the President of the Republic shall guarantee the independence of the judicial authority, it would be useful to abolish this provision and directly entrust this role to the Supreme Council of the Judiciary. We would thus gain clarity. Moreover, the Supreme Council of the Judiciary already occupies a much more important place in the constitutional text than originally – and that is so much better. Finally, because it would be simpler for all, but also less suspicious, I propose to attach the General Inspectorate of Justice to the Higher Council of the Judiciary, knowing that the guard of the seals could of course always seize it. The inspection would thus benefit from a much clearer positioning and would gain independence in the performance of its tasks, including that of disciplinary investigation. It is extremely important that MSC take its full place in career management. In the committee of inquiry, when I asked Judge Renaud Van Ruymbeke what the cost of independence was, he replied from the tac to the tac: "The career, Mr. It's probably good that some people don't have a career, if it's the price of their independence, but finally, it's a little limited! We must move forward on this point. Many magistrates explain to us that transparency is only valid at the very end of the process, not at the beginning, nor in the middle – it is a central problem. Another important issue is that of the budget – not only its amount but also its functioning and organisation, which directly affect judicial independence, as the heads of courts have told us. The latter must head an operational budget, programmes, enable them to allocate resources and maintain a genuine management dialogue with the management of judicial services, and so on. This is very important for their independence. Don't be mistaken: budgetary means are important too. I would also point out that we must not give in to the wrong idea of allowing hearings without clerks, because none are available, and of making them the rule. I repeat it forcefully: the clerk is not only present to take notes, he also provides a guarantee of independence, guaranteeing the regularity of the procedure, alongside the magistrate. Mr. Keeper of the Seals, what do you think of our proposal for the High Council of the Judiciary to give an opinion on the budget of justice? If the Constitution has to be amended to make it the rule, nothing prevents the executive from taking the initiative to solicit the MSC from next year's budget. The same applies to cost accounting. In this regard, I would like to ask you a question that is of particular interest to me, the fight against economic and financial crime. As we voted in the previous finance bill, we asked that the cross-cutting policy paper on the means used to combat tax fraud, common to Bercy, the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Justice, show the figures for each of these ministries, which was not the case in the budget we were debating. I had sent you a letter, as well as two of your fellow ministers, on this subject. It is important that we have these elements, if we want a debate to take place. Let us avoid making this struggle a "thing" away from Parliament, citizens and public debate. Let us not forget that civil affairs are the main activity of the Ministry of Justice. It must be said: for a civilian judge to be independent, he must have the means to do so. When the processing time for family cases is six, seven or eight months, the judges cannot go to the bottom of the matter, by studying all the documents. Since other files are waiting, they need to manage the flow, making their decision quickly. The question of financial resources is therefore directly linked to that of independence. Mr. Keeper of the Seals, I would also like to hear from you about the prospects in criminal matters. You stated that you would ensure that "preliminary investigations remain preliminary."
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u167	It's happening!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u168	All right. What then of the rapporteur's proposal to limit them? As for the judicial police – since there is no judicial justice without it – what do you think of the proposal to link directly all or part of its staff, in particular those of the specialized services, to the magistrates? Do you really think that real-time processing is fair? It is very important that we can hear you on these points. You promised, at the time of the transfer of power...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u169	Please conclude, Mr. Member.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u170	I'll finish on that. When you transferred power to the Chancery, you promised to reform the justice system. You said: "I want to move forward on a project that I care about, the independence of justice. »
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u171	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u172	I look forward to hearing from you on the schedule in this matter.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u173	Mr Paul Molac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u174	In these times of pandemic, let us not forget what makes the very essence of our society, of our social bond, so that our lives can unfold in complete serenity within a republic with legitimate institutions. Justice and, more importantly, the perception of justice by our fellow citizens play a fundamental role. Without justice, the people lose confidence in their institutions. Without justice, people's conflicts can only be resolved by the law of the talion, or the law of the strongest. Justice is what gives substance to our society and, if it has as its guarantor the head of state, head of executive power, it is our responsibility as parliamentarians to question us about its efficiency and to ensure its proper functioning and its full independence. There is no doubt today that a significant part of our citizens trust the justice of our country, even if they sometimes point to its extreme slowness, or at least what they consider to be such. But it has been too many years since the professionals in the sector warned about their working conditions and the means allocated to them, which obviously do not allow the optimal exercise of their tasks. The delays in the investigation, prior to the final settlement of a dispute, are sometimes so long and costly that they can discourage litigants from seeking recognition and compensation for injury. The first of the guarantees that we must give to the judicial authority, in order to strengthen its independence and efficiency, is to provide it with the necessary resources. We therefore, of course, call for the continuation of the increase in appropriations and support proposal No 20 of the report of the Committee of Inquiry, aimed at "limiting the mechanisms of budgetary regulation, in order to increase the autonomy of the heads of courts in the management of the appropriations allocated to them". With regard to proposal 17, if we support the idea of "returning to a system where each Court of Appeal has an operational program budget", we categorically oppose the objective of "coherent appeal courts with administrative regions". The merger of the regions was a bad reform; Let us avoid to justice this pitfall, this crooked path. In fact, your predecessor had not gone to the end of her plans in this area. Moreover, and this is the most urgent and important aspect, with a view to giving our justice greater independence, a thorough reform of the procedures for the appointment of prosecutors is necessary. It is necessary to avoid any suspicion of government interference and possible partisan or political choices by these high-ranking judicial officials, which would undermine the appearance of impartiality, first of their appointment, and then of their professional practice. We therefore endorse proposal No 1 of the report, namely "to align the method of appointment and the disciplinary regime of prosecutors with that of magistrates at the seat". This development is the subject of consensus within our society. Few people understand – and the European Court of Human Rights understands it even less – that a prosecutor, who defends the interests of society, can be appointed by the executive power alone. It is not too late to convene parliamentarians in Congress to make a constitutional amendment, provided there is consensus. This revision would enable proposals Nos. 3 and 4 of the report to be included in the Constitution, respectively, that of allowing any magistrate to refer the matter to the CSM if he considers that his independence or impartiality is at issue, and that of allowing the CSM to deal with any matter relating to the independence of the judicial authority on its own initiative. Similarly, proposal No. 29, aimed at creating the function of "pre-trial judge of the criminal investigation", which alone would have the power to authorize the public prosecutor to continue a preliminary investigation beyond a certain period of time, seems to us interesting. Finally, we welcome the recommendations of the report aimed at increasing the transparency of the judicial authority, even if we wish to go further than proposal No 24 on reporting. Even if framed by a circular, they still leave a doubt about possible pressure on magistrates. The number of cases should be drastically reduced, if not eliminated, in the light of the very broad criteria, including referrals for all cases likely to be publicized. We honour the work done by this committee of inquiry, in particular by Messrs. Bernalicis and Paris, and thank them for their work.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u175	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u176	Over the course of history, the independence of judges has been at the heart of a tumultuous relationship between the judiciary, the executive and the legislature. Indeed, the balance between the powers and their separation, dear to Montesquieu, is a demanding political construction, which deserves to be protected by the institutions. The need for judicial independence from the executive branch is increasingly prevalent. However, since 2013, we have felt that a game of hide-and-seek is being played with the constitutional reform aimed at better guaranteeing it. The institutional crisis, which is part of the current political crisis, is marked by a mistrust that one would be wrong to want to curb by establishing an authoritarian power, which would not be subject to any control. We need a living democracy, to live well together and face the challenges of our time. The independence of the judiciary, which is essential for confidence in democracy, the Republic and public action, must therefore be clearly established. Does not mistrust now reach the judicial institution itself? Far from us the idea of questioning the ethics of the independence of judges, since, as magistrate Katia Dubreuil points out, there is a great deal of fantasies in the charges against the judiciary. In her view, however, it is certain that the excessive weakness of institutional guarantees leads some of our fellow citizens to doubt its independence. If the independence of the judicial authority is enshrined in article 64 of the Constitution, it is quite curious, since it guarantees the President of the Republic, the head of the executive, which led Professor Guy Carcassonne to say: "As much as proclaiming that the wolf is the guarantor of the security of the sheepfold! » On the other hand, we pointed out the need to review the organization of the MSC, its place, and the applicable rules on appointment, in order to curb the mechanisms of hardship and confrontation between the powers, and to allow their balance and separation. We welcome the establishment, at the request of our colleagues in the La France group, and the serious work of the committee of inquiry on the obstacles to the independence of the judiciary. We share the observation and the proposals made by his rapporteur. He will not have escaped you, in view of the amendments we tabled on the constitutional bill of 2018, aborted because of the Benalla case, which we share even more with those made by the chairman of the commission of inquiry, Mr Bernalicis. In any event, a reform guaranteeing the independence of the judiciary, in accordance with the objective of these various proposals, cannot be postponed sine die, because we must guarantee our fellow citizens equality before the courts and the protection of their individual freedoms. Mr. Keeper of the Seals, during the transfer of power ceremony on July 7, 2020, you would declare: "I wish to be the keeper of the seals that will finally [...] the reform of the long-awaited prosecutor's office. The public prosecutor's office, which is all the judges responsible for representing the public prosecutor's office, is at the heart of recurrent criticism. Promising the Parliament's meeting in Congress, you also announced: "I want to move forward on a project that is close to my heart, the independence of justice. This institutional objective seems almost unattainable in our tight schedule by the end of the quinquennium. We regret it all the more because with this parliamentary report and that of the Supreme Council of the Judiciary, which was handed over to the President of the Republic at his request and which addresses the issue of the link between prosecutors, prosecutors general and the Minister of Justice, the Government had all the cards in hand to carry out this reform. It would not be too late if you decided on a constitutional reform on this point alone. But we fear that the greedy temptation to incorporate other, much more questionable, institutional arrangements into the reform will prevent you from doing so. The report also makes proposals that do not require constitutional reform, and the deputies of the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left therefore call on the Government to allow their outcome. While many repressive laws, which reduce freedoms, are lightly presented in this House, we believe in a living democracy, which makes the concrete and practical reaffirmation of the principle of separation of powers an ardent necessity – the crisis of democracy does not affect only other countries, let us say. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] Finally, justice must be given the means to be fully at the meeting, without which independence would only be a mirage.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u177	Mr Didier Paris has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u178	This commission of inquiry clearly stems from France's initial unwillingness to question the judicial institution and settle its own accounts with it. This is attested by the words of its president himself, referring to the searches, unprecedented for a political organization, suffered by his group that triggered this commission.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u179	There!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u180	In addition, contrary to all logic, there are sixty-three proposals tabled by the President, which are nothing but a political manifesto, some of which are unrelated to our work, and which have never been discussed or validated by the committee itself. This is probably the reason why some of these proposals bear witness to a curious conception of independence, such as that aimed, for example, at establishing the right of a member of parliament or a local elected official to take voluntary action in an ongoing judicial case, in order to "enlighten" the judiciary. This concept of independence will be appreciated. The principle of the independence of the judiciary is intended to guarantee the possibility of taking decisions free of pressure or instruction, not only from the legislative and executive branches, but also, in a more contemporary way, from social, economic, cultural or even media groups. Our work, through some 50 public hearings and numerous contributions, has focused on taking stock of the situation and identifying avenues for improvement. Let us be clear: in France, we can be proud of our justice and the work of its actors, magistrates, clerks, civil servants, not to mention the indispensable auxiliaries of lawyers and our security forces. There is nothing to support seriously, in the light of our work at least, that our justice would not be independent, and none of the seventy persons interviewed complained, in conscience, of being the victim of pressure or of being aware of such situations. However, it must be recognized that our justice is increasingly being sought for its role as the regulator of our society and that, as such, it faces criticism and suspicions, reasons why its independence still needs to be strengthened. That is the meaning, beyond the contingencies of current events, of the forty proposals which I have tabled as rapporteur, all of which have been rigorously drawn from our work and which have been unanimously validated by the members of the committee. They aim to better guarantee independence, thanks in particular to the fundamental triptych motivating the long-awaited constitutional reform: alignment of the method of appointment and the disciplinary regime of the prosecutors with that of the magistrates of the seat, extension of the powers of the CSM and abolition of the Court of Justice of the Republic for the benefit of the ordinary courts. They are also intended to enable the judicial authority to have adequate resources to carry out its tasks and to give the courts more budgetary respiration and autonomy of management. We must note here the historic increase in the budget of justice, which is clearly beginning to bear fruit, if I may say so, a characteristic example, if any, by the significant improvement in the situation of the tribunal of Bobigny, noted a few days ago in a great evening daily. Finally, they aim to clarify the feedback, to guarantee a better contradiction in the surveys, while proposing a further reflection on the duration of the surveys: more generally, they aim to improve the transparency of the system. We will pay attention, Minister, to the follow-up that you would like to give to this report, hoping that it will not end up, like so many others, in a closet. We have not, however, avoided the problematic situations, some of which have been exacerbated by our own work – I am thinking in particular of the misperceived reports in the national financial prosecutor's office – PNF –, the shadow zones – to say no more – surrounding the practice of fadettes, the treatment of police officers by the Paris Public Prosecutor's Office during demonstrations of yellow vests, or the question of the impartiality of certain political decisions in the perspective of the 2020 municipal elections. Every system contains its breaches. It is our responsibility as parliamentarians, responsible for monitoring the Government's actions, to take them over; It is your responsibility, Minister, to close them. While the demand for justice is stronger than ever in our society, which has never needed so much confidence in transparent institutions, the proposals of this committee of inquiry have only one goal: to ensure that our citizens have the certainty that the judge's decision is fair, impartial and that it has been taken free of pressure.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u181	Mr Antoine Savignat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u182	Before agreeing to speak in this debate, which is exciting and essential in a rule of law with an independent judiciary, I asked myself at length about its reasonableness and the risks I would or would not take on this subject. The doubt arose from the fact that, for too long, political interventionism and interference of the judge in the political debate had led to drifts, where the necessary independence of the judge implies his complete impartiality for the proper functioning of the institutions. In 2013, the Taubira law put an end to the first drift by removing individual instructions: thus, the independence of the prosecutor's office from the executive was assured. As far as impartiality is concerned, the issue remains particularly important, as the work of this committee of inquiry has highlighted. The statements made during the hearings on the conditions for the appointment of the investigating judge in the Fillon case, such as those relating to requests for information within the Public Prosecutor's Office, inevitably lead to questions as to the serenity which should govern the management of cases and therefore the impartiality necessary for any decision-making. Nor is it permissible for magistrates to decide publicly on cases in progress or not yet opened, especially when those same magistrates are the ones who will have to decide whether or not to prosecute. Leaks, whether organized or not, press releases are all elements that can lead to doubt or error in the minds of our fellow citizens: the indispensable confidence that we must have in our justice necessarily depends on the wisdom that it must demonstrate. In this hyper-mediated society, it is certainly frustrating not to be able to participate in the public debate, but having made the choice to embrace the beautiful profession of magistrate implies a duty of reservation. The judge cannot and must not become an actor unless he undermines the credibility of our entire judicial system. As for politics, it must not interfere with its functioning. The ineligibility of the functions held, provided for in the electoral code, is an illustration of the will of the legislator and society not to see the judge take part in the political debate. Of course, we can make further progress in this area, and the report of the Committee of Inquiry outlines a number of avenues in this regard. In order to cut any debate and legitimize the Minister of Justice, keep the seals, we have proposed that his appointment take place on a proposal, and with the assent of the three-fifths majority, of the relevant parliamentary committees. This system, already tested, would enable the legitimacy of the Minister of Justice to be established in his own mission on the recognition of his qualities by national representation. On the other hand, the confusion caused by the illusibility between the public prosecutor's office and the seat must be definitively removed: training, a status and identical dresses, as well as career paths from one position to another, sometimes in the same jurisdiction, are not such as to allow the people who are entitled to understand our system. Progress in the independence of the judiciary will therefore depend on the lack of cross-section between the prosecutor's office and headquarters, the distinction between training and career. Finally, independence in the exercise of the mission is, on its own, likely to generate the confidence of the people in the institution, which it cannot blindly give to it. To cut short doubts, mistrust and fantasies, the judicial institution must be responsible and transparent. Because doing justice on behalf of the French people involves a little pedagogy and a lot of transparency, we have proposed the organisation of departmental debates, during which, in the interests of proximity, the magistrates would come before citizens drawn by lot on the electoral lists to report on their annual activity and explain it, which would make it possible to reassure them. The subject is inexhaustible, but it is decisive for social peace, which requires not political justice, not a republic of the just, but simply independent republican justice, and rendered in the name of the people. [[Smile]] As I was preparing for this intervention, I came to mind the words of a man whom it may seem incongruous to quote here but which perfectly illustrate the indispensable trust that must exist between the judge, politics and men: "Do not ask a man to be reasonable when, precisely, justice and government are not," said Jacques Mesrine. In this year that begins, I therefore hope that we can work together and in serenity, Minister, for an impartial, independent, trustworthy and ever better understood justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u183	Mr Vincent Bru has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u184	I would like to begin by congratulating President Ugo Bernalicis and rapporteur Didier Paris on their excellent joint work, which allowed the committee to proceed under the best possible conditions. The purpose of the commission of inquiry was "to identify and study all the obstacles that justice can face in its day-to-day functioning", and to arrive at "proposals to ensure the full independence of justice". This mission has been accomplished: the investigation report by our colleague Didier Paris is a remarkable contribution to the service of French justice. As we all know, the purpose of this committee was particularly delicate. We were able to see it through the hearings that we conducted and which put certain political-financial affairs under the spotlight. Indeed, investigating obstacles to the independence of the judiciary amounts to investigating suspicions of judges and their neutrality vis-à-vis politicians. That is why it was the task of the committee of inquiry to unravel the true from the false, to distinguish the real from the fantasized links it has with political power. Our work has enabled us to conclude that our justice system is generally independent and, in this sense, it adequately guarantees our rule of law. However, we have also highlighted several points, three in particular, which need to be improved. First of all, strengthening the institutional and statutory independence of the judiciary was essential, since, if no one called into question the independence of the judges at the seat, that of the prosecutors was regularly challenged. The report thus makes the proposal to align the method of appointment and the disciplinary procedure of prosecutors with those of the judges of the seat. The Mouvement Démocrate (MoDem) and Allied Democrats Group welcomes this proposal, which would strengthen the guarantees of the independence of prosecutors, without having to abandon the French conception of the public prosecutor's office. The second point concerns the financial independence of the judiciary, which is a condition of its effective independence. In fact, the hearings revealed the difficulty for magistrates to work calmly when cases are accumulating and there are not enough cases to deal with them or when they do not have adequate equipment. The speed of justice depends, among other things, on the courts controlling their budget, and our group therefore supports the proposals in this area. Thirdly, the report calls for greater transparency, for greater judicial independence. This includes clarifying relations with the executive branch. In particular, the instruments of the conduct of criminal policy defined by the Government and implemented by the Public Prosecutor's Office should be clarified. In particular, the report calls for better guidance on reporting, much of which was discussed at the hearings. There is a simple circular, which dates back to 2014 and is insufficient. That is why the Democratic Group supports the rapporteur's proposal to include in the law the conditions for such reports. The particular case of the National Financial Prosecutor's Office was at the heart of the discussions, in particular the words of the former national prosecutor, who stated at his hearing that he had been pressured by his superior. Without calling into question its effectiveness and its placement under the hierarchical authority of the Paris Attorney General, the report proposes that consideration be given to how to improve the relations between the Paris Public Prosecutor's Office and the local public prosecutor's offices. In addition, recent cases have shown the need to strengthen the rights of the defence. As such, the report proposes the establishment of a specific procedural framework for the exploitation of fadettes: our group supports it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u185	Ah! That's good.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u186	Finally, we must be aware that, in addition to political and economic pressures, media pressure is also a threat to the independence of justice. It is sometimes difficult for magistrates to resist the media impact of important decisions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u187	Good!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u188	Our group therefore supports the report's proposal for better training of judges in media pressure and stricter control of the secrecy of the investigation. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group – Mr Didier Paris also applauds]] This commission examined the functioning of justice; the persons interviewed, including the highest magistrates, were able to express themselves freely. The Democratic Group is committed to the independence of judges, independent and impartial judges; He therefore supported the proposals contained in the report.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u189	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u190	Our country is the presumed land of freedom and respect for human rights: the question of the independence of justice takes on a particular resonance in terms of demands. The commission of inquiry on the obstacles to the independence of the judiciary concluded its work with forty-one proposals, which call for the observations of the keeper of the Seals. She did a very good job. I salute Ugo Bernalicis, its chairman, and Didier Paris, its rapporteur. The latter is right to remind us that we must be proud of the actors of justice. What, if not that this committee of inquiry, in addition to the politico-judicial matters which the media have seized, makes the same observation and tends towards the same objectives as those expressed for a decade by many working groups, committees, consensus conferences and books, all more justified than each other. Let us mention the report led by Claude Bartolone and Michel Winock, in the continuation of the parliamentary mission on institutions, during the previous parliamentary term, which devotes pages to a justice that struggles to affirm its independence and which is the subject of strong expectations and criticism not only of the criminal, but also of the civil. Let us also mention the latest edition of Serge Guinchard and Jacques Buisson's excellent book of criminal procedure, which I had the opportunity to consult. To ask the question of the independence of justice is first of all to answer the question of its ability to guarantee equal access to the public service of justice, in confidence and speed. The problem of justice is its budget. This weakness is reflected in a number of judges and prosecutors far from the European level, and in procedures that are more responsive to the budget economy than to the independence of the judiciary. Six points are subject to your analysis, Minister. First of all, the independence of the judiciary requires constitutional reform, as is well known: the status of prosecutors must be aligned with that of magistrates in the seat. A constitutional bill awaits you, Mr. Keeper of the Seals: could you not take it back and allow the CMS to decide on all the candidatures of the magistrates of both the seat and the prosecutor's office? This is the first proposal.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u191	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u192	The Prosecutor's Office is entrusted with increasingly important prerogatives; he can conduct investigations with almost the same powers as an investigating judge, without the consent of the person concerned, with the sole coercion, sometimes, of the judge of freedoms and detention – JLD. The 2019 law, like the 2016 law, accentuates this movement for the benefit of the prosecutor, who can extend his investigations without being obliged to open judicial information. The ECHR – European Court of Human Rights – denies prosecutors the status of magistrate. While we know their excellence in the field and their willingness to work impartially, the appointment and career management procedures need to be reviewed to entrust them to the MSC. The second observation is that the preliminary investigation, which may last for years, must be terminated and that the prosecutor's commitment to maintaining the entire power must be reflected, while judicial information opens the way for adversarial action. A judge of the investigation must be created – it was a proposal of Didier Paris – in a position to receive the requests of the parties and to decide on the extension of an investigation. This is the content of proposals Nos 21, 29 and 31. The third observation is that the rights of the defence must be introduced at the heart of the preliminary investigation. It is becoming increasingly difficult to admit that the citizen does not know anything about the file which accuses him, that the decision of intrusive investigative measures for the purposes of the investigation, which infringe on the privacy of one of the parties and often on the charge, cannot be conditioned by an adversarial debate. The aim is to reorganize the reports of the prosecutor's office and the lawyer, who must become a strong actor in the proceedings. Fourth observation: the independence and impartiality of the magistrate will depend first of all on his personal strength and his determination to resist influences from all sides. The dissemination of a ethical culture in support of this impartiality is well accepted by the magistrates, through the reflection generated by declarations of interest which must include information similar to that requested by the administrative magistrates. These are proposals Nos. 9 and 10. The pending cases of the PNF raise the question of reporting: that has been said. Proposals Nos 24 and 25 deal with the subject. The high rate of complaints closed without follow-up questions: it follows from the key figures of justice published in 2020 that 64% of the cases received are classified as non-prosecutionable. The question of the expected effectiveness and protection of justice goes beyond the question of its independence, but is part of the mistrust. We will return to that, particularly in the separatism bill. In conclusion, the criminal law, which was strongly discussed during the hearings, must not make us forget that the justice of everyday life – commercial justice, prud'men, juvenile justice, justice of the poor, of which Pierre Joxe speaks so well – must also be questioned according to concerns of independence and impartiality. Minister, I think you share our analysis. [[Applause on the SOC benches]] The responsibilities of the judge, of which there has been little discussion, and the requirement of his office as a source of law, are inextricably linked to those of independence and impartiality that we have been concerned about in this investigation. Thank you, Mr. Keeper of the Seals, for the answers you would like to give us.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u193	Mr Dimitri Houbron has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u194	First of all, I would like to commend the work done by the Chairman of the Committee of Inquiry, Mr Ugo Bernalicis, who has steered a wide range of hearings, in order to provide us with a rich and varied content, highlighting the obstacles to the independence of the judiciary. Even though we have disagreements, sometimes profound, on the means and tools to be deployed in this area, the Group of the European People's Party would like to stress that the committee of inquiry has helped to consolidate positions that we have in common. I am not going to go back to the various elements of contextualization and the motivations that have legitimized an investigation into the elements obstructing the independence of the judiciary: the essence has been recalled by previous speakers. I would like to devote this time to looking at some of the proposals made by the rapporteur, Didier Paris, whose work I also welcome, in my view, deserves to be analysed by the ministry and even dedicated to the legislative marble. We can only agree with the proposal to require judicial judges to declare their voluntary functions likely to give rise to a conflict of interest, as well as the elective functions and terms of office of their spouses. This obligation would not suffer from any obstacles, since it is incumbent on administrative judges. Although the declaration of interest is a guarantee of transparency, a breach of the heading alters its legitimacy. It would therefore be welcome if this imbalance between the two branches of the judiciary were to be corrected. We also support the proposal to create a mission dedicated solely to judicial justice in the budget model. This is a request made by a number of actors, including, in my territory, the Douai Bar, which I would like to welcome. This change in the model would allow these professionals to have a better visibility of the funds allocated to the various programmes arising from the judicial justice system. The Action Group agrees with the proposal to submit the preliminary draft budget for justice to the Higher Council of the Judiciary for its opinion. Although each draftsman of a mission in this budget has a habit of hearing this body, this track deserves to be put into practice, in order to put an end to a segmentation of the analyses. Parliamentarians need – I would even say, are seeking – a cross-cutting and detailed opinion from the Supreme Council of the Judiciary. This global expertise would allow us to refine our approaches to a very technical document that has daily implications for our country's legal and judicial network. Finally, I would like to dwell on a proposal by the Chairman of the Committee of Inquiry: the holding of an annual debate on case law in the standing committees of the parliamentary chambers, on the basis of the progress reports of the Court of Cassation and the Council of State. This debate would allow the legislator to assess the legal developments that should or should not be specified in the law. By way of illustration, some articles of the Criminal Code relating to the punishment of animal abuse are unclear. Regularly, case law provides clarifications that may aggravate or ease legal prisms. I also take the example of disputes over the use of genealogists in the search for successors: having worked on the subject, the analysis of the case law turns out to be tortuous and thorny, because punctuated with shifts that disturb a whole part of the profession, especially notaries. This proposal clearly deserves to be studied, as it makes a concrete contribution to bringing visibility to the people and to the world of justice. [[Applause on the benches of the Action ens group]] In conclusion, I reiterate the Group's satisfaction: the work of this committee of inquiry has been able to enrich and consolidate positions shared by parliamentarians from the various groups.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u195	Mr Jean-Christophe Lagarde has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u196	The subject of the independence of justice comes back regularly in the news, often in cases that are caricatured. From our point of view, it is not the subject of sufficient substantive reflection. The independence of justice is obviously a necessity for citizens to have confidence in it; Without trust, justice rendered on their behalf ends up missing its goal of contributing to the regulation of society. And if it is detestable, for a judge, a magistrate, a body, to be accountable to politicians, even if it is – alas! – an ancient tradition in our country, it is equally detestable to no longer be held accountable at all. It is this reflection that I would like to elaborate before you, Mr. Keeper of the Seals, and before the National Assembly. For years, we have been saying – there is a soft consensus on this – that it would be enough to have the assent of the CMS – which in fact is respected – and to engrave it in the constitutional marble. But the reality is that, at least for criminal policy, the judiciary – the prosecutor's office – must be held accountable to the guard of the seals. This is the result, through the Government, of the National Assembly, of a majority chosen by the citizens. If the independence of justice were absolute tomorrow, the judiciary would eventually turn on itself, accounting only for itself. It is just as dangerous to allow judges to be held accountable to political power. Justice is done on behalf of the French people and not on behalf of a body, even if it is as honorable as that of the judiciary. This body, when it does justice, must also be able to be accountable to the people, either in prosecutions – I am talking about criminal policy – or also – we never talk about it – in judgments. It is quite difficult to understand why an assailant who would drag an 80-year-old lady behind a moped or scooter would not suffer the same penalty depending on whether he would face a magistrate from Seine-Saint-Denis or a magistrate from Guérande or Mazamet. The assessment of the seriousness of the offences and crimes would not be the same. This debate, of course, deserves to be held not only between judges – the observation of case law allows it – but also with those before whom judges must be held accountable. I do not know what the right solution is, Mr Minister, but I think that it is to be invented and that this political debate must first be opened. The group La France insoumée proposes that the National Assembly should hold it, as far as the prosecutor's office is concerned: either. This would be the only point of a more collective debate. I believe, however, that this would not be enough and that other forms of democratisation of the independence of justice are necessary. We are obviously opposed to the election of magistrates, but we must nevertheless find places for meetings, debate and dialogue between the judiciary and the French people. I point out in passing that if we want to revise the Constitution – these matters of the CMS and the CJR have been dragging on since 2008 – we have an extraordinary opportunity, since the President of the Republic has decided to convene the French people by referendum. If we do not want to amend the Constitution for the environment, which is clearly not a problem for anyone, let us take the opportunity to revise it "at the same time" on these two consensual subjects. This would allow us to move forward faster. I have, of course, read the conclusions of the report that you have produced. According to the IDU and independent group, first of all, we must manage to open up justice to society. I have already mentioned the capacity for exchange and the need for accountability. I would also like to highlight proposal No 40 of the report of the Committee of Inquiry to increase the number of places available for the second and third competitions: this would allow for an expansion of the capacity, if I may allow that expression. When you took up your duties, you indicated, Mr. Keeper of the Seals, that you had to change the training course and you're right. It would be a good thing for the magistrates themselves, to aerate the judiciary, if I dare that expression. Some magistrates are also seeking this reform, even though it may not be the majority of them. There is a need to increase the number of bridges between the posts of prosecutors, magistrates and the outside world. We find it difficult to understand the fact that a magistrate, a gifted pupil passing through the École nationale de la magistrature, can begin to judge the whole of French society without having had the chance, opportunity or pleasure, in any case the experience of exercising functions other than that of judging his fellow citizens. Moreover, this provision would offer the possibility, as is the case in other countries, to start by doing something else, to have the status of magistrate but to see other things than these closed places – often too closed – which are the courts. Finally, for justice to be credible, it must be efficient. And for it to be efficient, it must have the human and material means. We applauded Carrefour's caregivers and cashiers a lot, because these people did extraordinary things during confinement. For my part, I would like to stress that it is in reality every day that we should applaud the actors of justice in our country. The Government has decided to reconstruct much of the Bobigny Court, located in my constituency, and I thank him for that. However, in all the courts of France, at least in many of them, these little hands of justice carry out exploits every day, under unlikely conditions. Of course, the chairman and rapporteur of the Committee of Inquiry realized that. [[Philippe Michel-Kleisbauer applauds]] I will conclude by saying that, while the increase in appropriations for 2021 is a good thing – the IDU group and independents have approved it – the question is that of the trajectory: a budgetary year will not be enough to catch up with the forty years of giving up justice and the means it needs in our country. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u197	The next speaker is Mr Custody of the Seals, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u198	First of all, I would like to express a very moved thought on the occasion of the death of Mrs de Sarnez, who spoke yesterday. The independence of justice is not an incantatory value or principle: it is neither more nor less than the foundation of our rule of law. It is the consequence of the separation of powers and, above all, the indispensable condition for guaranteeing the rights and freedoms of everyone. Throughout my professional career as a lawyer, and even more so today in the context of my responsibilities, I have always ensured that this principle is given the utmost consideration. I am therefore very honoured to debate before the national representative of the conclusions of your report, Mr Paris. I would like to pay tribute from the outset to the quality of the report, both in terms of analysis and proposals. This does not, of course, mean that we agree on everything! As you know, it was the public's lack of confidence in the judicial institution that justified the work of the committee of inquiry. However, as I indicated in my circular on general criminal policy of 1 October 2020, the restoration of the link between the French and justice is an absolutely major issue. This requires not only a better understanding of the work of justice, but also a change in institutional functioning. Any doubt as to the impartiality of the decisions rendered must be ruled out. The report of the Committee of Inquiry is rich and makes forty-one proposals. I say again: I share a number of them, which are, for many of them, already taken into account by the Ministry of Justice. However, other proposals need to be carefully and cautiously understood, as they may affect the balance of rights, public and private interests and powers. First of all, I share with the rapporteur the ambition that the judicial authority should have adequate resources for its functioning and for the investigations it is responsible for. That is why I have ensured that the resources allocated to justice are, once again, significantly increased. In 2021, judicial services received a significant increase of more than 8% over 2020. I am grateful to you, ladies and gentlemen, for hearing my plea to defend this budget by voting in favour of the finance bill. Some of the proposals in the report of the Committee of Inquiry are aimed at involving the courts in the budgetary dialogue. In this regard, I would like to recall the scope of the constitutional principle set out in article 20 of our Constitution, which entrusts the Government with the determination and conduct of the nation's policy. As far as the justice budget is concerned, it is therefore up to the keeper of the seals to conduct exchanges with the Minister for the Economy, Finance and Recovery, to support the budgetary request before Parliament and to answer for its implementation. The report also proposes a split of the justice budget into two tasks, one relating to the functioning of the courts, and the other relating to the means of public policy outside the justice system. I am not convinced by this proposal for three reasons. The first of these is that the judicial authority, in order to carry out its tasks successfully, necessarily needs the action of the other actors of the Ministry of Justice and the services which assist in the preparation and execution of its decisions. It is inconceivable to me that the tasks entrusted to the judicial protection of young people and the prison administration are described as peripherals. Secondly, we need to maintain the consistency of Parliament's review of the Department of Justice's budget to enable it to have a comprehensive vision. The third reason is the need for cross-cutting support functions of the Ministry of Justice. I am thinking in particular of the information technology resources, which must be shared between the different professions of justice in order to increase efficiency. Secondly, in order to strengthen the confidence of our fellow citizens in the judicial authority, certain rules governing the status, ethics and recruitment of judges must be changed. I'm very happy to give it to you. A number of them, however, require constitutional review. This is the case with the extension of the powers of the Supreme Council of the Judiciary and, more specifically, the evolution of the status of prosecutors to that of judges at the seat, concerning the conditions of appointment and the conditions under which their disciplinary breaches may be punished. [[Mrs. Naïma Moutchou smiles]] Other recommendations are aimed at granting the CSM a power of proposal for the posts of Attorney General and Public Prosecutor. First of all, I note that some of those who dispute the terms and conditions of appointment today did not do so yesterday when they were appointed. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no I also note that the Prosecutors-General are mostly not in favour of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u199	Yes.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u200	This approach seems to me, above all, to pose difficulties with regard to the dual nature of the tasks entrusted to the prosecutors. They are subject to the same duties of impartiality as the magistrates of the seat and freely develop at the hearing the observations "that they believe fit for the good of justice", to use the formula of the Code of Criminal Procedure. They are also responsible for the implementation of criminal policy, which is part of the Government's public policies and is the sole responsibility of the keeper of seals. With regard to the other proposals for constitutional reform, I am very much in agreement. I can therefore join you in the proposal to include in the Constitution that the Supreme Council of the Judiciary may take up any matter relating to the independence of the judicial authority on its own initiative. I also agree with the Committee of Inquiry's proposal to strengthen the CSM's investigative powers, with a few nuances. On the other hand, I do not agree with the proposal to include in the Constitution that any magistrate may refer the matter to the CSM if he considers that his independence or impartiality is at issue. This would be contrary to existing mechanisms: judges have the opportunity to refer any ethical concerns to the judicial body of ethics. I have always said that independence cannot be synonymous with irresponsibility. I believe that the statutory guarantees granted must be consolidated, by strengthening the ethical obligations and the regime of accountability of the judiciary. Would you like some numbers? Since 2015, 1369 litigants have lodged a complaint with the Conseil Supérieur de la Magistrature: 39 of them have been declared admissible, three have led to disciplinary proceedings: zero, you can hear me well, zero conviction.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u201	That's not acceptable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u202	That's not a good record.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u203	It's not normal.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u204	I don't have the previous numbers, but I can provide them. I would add that the President of the Republic has asked the Supreme Council of the Judiciary to consider the issue of accountability. To date, we are still waiting for the results of this work, but I do not doubt for a moment that they will intervene very quickly. There is no justification for the declaration of the interests of judicial officers to be less complete than that of administrative or financial judges. We fully agree on this point, Mrs Untermaier. I also agree with the proposal to amend the oath of judges, which, like you, must refer to impartiality, which is obviously consubstantial to the office of the judge. As a mirror of this amendment to the oath, you propose that the definition of disciplinary misconduct, provided for in section 43 of the statutory order, be supplemented to expressly address the breach of impartiality: the same is true of the breach of integrity and probity, it is obvious. Finally, you know me in advance of an opening up of the judiciary, as part of the ministry's recruitment policy. It was in this spirit that I appointed a lawyer to head the National School of Judicial Affairs. It is also in this spirit that I am very pleased with the appointment of a high-ranking magistrate to head the first school for the training of bar associations in France.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u205	All right.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u206	Consideration should also be given to lateral recruitment in the judiciary. Finally, you have made proposals on criminal justice. Some have already been taken into consideration by my ministry; I believe, however, that others must be approached with care and caution. This is the case with the proposal to strengthen Parliament's control over the conduct of the criminal policy decided by the Government and led by the Chancery. In my general criminal policy circular of 1 October 2020, I indicated my intention to publish annually the report on the application of the criminal policy provided for in article 30 of the Code of Criminal Procedure and to report to the national representative. The independence of justice must also be ensured by improving its functioning. This requires better control of procedures and greater transparency of its action. Transparency, however, necessarily requires the search for a better balance between the right to information and the secrecy of investigation and investigation. That is why I share your willingness to reform the preliminary investigation. As you know, some thoughts are under way to propose a bill for you before the summer. I know, dear Didier Paris, that this subject is particularly dear to you, and I would like to thank you for your involvement and proposals in this matter. The transparency of justice must be seen and must not be started by the question, often discussed in a controversial manner and with many fantasies, of the provision of information. Its critics see it as an interference of the executive in judicial action. However, this information remains indispensable for the conduct of criminal policy...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u207	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u208	... and obeys the concern to ensure the proper functioning of the judicial institution. It also allows the seal keeper to answer for his actions before you, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Commons, as he does today as part of the week of control. I can assure you that the provision of information as it is practiced is fully within a reasonable framework. The Directorate of Criminal Affairs and Pardons – DACG – is already sorting it out to limit and streamline it. To date, I find the practice of providing information in this way satisfactory, which leads to a re-examination of the value of a normative definition of its criteria. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group. – Mrs Untermaier and Mr Vincent Bru, Jean-Pierre Cubertafon, Jean-Christophe Lagarde and Paul Molac also applaud]] I thank you for your attention and am naturally at your disposal to answer any questions you may wish to ask.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u209	We come to the questions. I would like to point out that they, as well as the answers, are limited to two minutes, and that there is no right of reply. Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u210	In a recent study, completed in November 2019, entitled The soul of the body, La magistrature française in the 2010s, sociologists Yoann Demoli and Laurent Willemez have shown the persistent nature of the lack of diversity in the social origin of magistrates and magistrates, even speaking of shortcomings. All the professions of the high civil service and the senior executives of the private sector are marked by this reproduction of the most affluent social strata, but the phenomenon is even stronger in the justice system. "Esprit de corps and networking are at the heart of the recruitment of magistrates", itself "based on an elitist logic," the researchers note. While significant reforms have been carried out to diversify recruitment at the National School of the Judiciary, it alone cannot correct the economic, social and cultural inequalities that have affected individuals since the beginning and throughout their schooling. The weight of private preparations in access to the office of magistrate or magistrate is disproportionate and contributes to the maintenance of the undemocratic and undiversified nature of access to the judiciary.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u211	Of course, but it's on competition!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u212	This is an essential debate. We are concerned and concerned about the proposals made in January 2020 by the high-level mission led by Frédéric Thirez. The six-month joint training offered between the major training schools of civil servants – health professionals, police, magistrates and state engineers from X, Mines or Bridges – and the three weeks of military preparation envisaged would be contrary to the independence requirement of the judiciary and would ignore the functioning of the NMS. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] On the contrary, we consider it essential to maintain the ENM in order to guarantee a high level of training and the independence of the body. The report makes several proposals in this regard: "strengthening the means of public preparations, namely judicial institutes throughout the territory" or "limiting the relations of the National School of the Judiciary with private training institutes in order to ensure Republican equality of access to the judiciary". I would like to know what the Ministry of Justice intends to implement in this regard.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u213	That's not the purpose of the report!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u214	It is Mr. Keeper of the Seals who has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u215	[[Mr. Vincent Bru smiles]] [[Exclaims on FI banks]] I came to the national representation to discuss a report that I read and that I was passionate about. You are submitting proposals that have not been mentioned or debated in advance. This is a singular way, Madam Member, of considering adversarialism. I am not in a position to answer your questions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u216	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u217	If you don't do anything, you have to say it! Do your job! That's amazing!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u218	It's ugly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u219	Mr Jean-Félix Acquaviva has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u220	This debate brings me to a matter that you are well aware of, Mr. Keeper of Seals. In this case, it is more than legitimate to question the motivations that may have led the Prime Minister not to lift the status of particularly-reported inmate – DPS – of Pierre Alessandri and Alain Ferrandi, while there is no objective justification for his retention. For twenty-one years, the persons concerned have been detained in a central house in the Paris region, away from their families, who pay the exorbitant costs, in every sense of the word. For the past four years, however, these men have been "conditionable" and expect at least a family rapprochement, which is strictly permitted by the law. However, they are systematically denied the status of DPS, which prevents any reconciliation, even though they do not pose any disciplinary problems, absolutely none: they have been considered exemplary since the beginning of their incarceration. Moreover, the local and then national committees responsible for this matter have repeatedly delivered favourable opinions. Such opinions are usually followed by the authorities, but in this case, obviously, nothing is normal: the judicial authority systematically opposes them. The Ministry of Justice – notably under the aegis of Mrs Belloubet, and then under the leadership of the Prime Minister since your timely deportation, Mr. Keeper of the Seals – usually justifies these refusals by a potential risk of escape, yet completely lunar, if they were transferred to Borgo, by an alleged disturbance to public order or, worse, by "a mediatization of their possible rapprochement". In other words, it's absolute arbitrariness. How do you want the island society not to perceive here a struggle, a state vengeance? In this case, a court decision is clearly flouted by the impingement of the executive power, which no longer hides itself. [[MM. Ugo Bernalicis, Paul Molac and Bruno Questel applaud]] Corsica as a whole respects the pain of the Érignac family. Justice has passed; men have been convicted; After twenty-two years, they were sentenced. These men have rights, their families have rights. In a democracy, as we all know, justice can under no circumstances bear state vengeance. This situation must therefore cease without delay, under penalty of causing a deep anger which can only lead to revolt itself, which no one wants. In the face of this, what do you intend to do?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u221	I would point out that this issue is not addressed in the report either!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u222	It is Mr. Keeper of the Seals who has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u223	You kindly asked me your question, Mr. Acquaviva. I hear whispers in my back that the subject is not covered in the report, but I will answer you.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u224	It's not murmuring.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u225	First, what you said on the factual level is perfectly correct. Secondly, we agree that decisions on the status of DPS are not jurisdictional, but administrative. Finally, you know that because of the facts that I had to know in my capacity as counsel for this case, even if they were not the convicts you mentioned, it is not possible for me to intervene. It is the meaning of a decree that has been made, which leaves the Prime Minister's hand on this issue. So, Mr. Acquaviva, I can't say more. I would be taxed, by those who expect only that, from I do not know any new conflict of interest. [[Bruno Questel applauds]] The question you asked deserves to be asked. You have recalled a number of elements that are perfectly true. But it's not my hand; I think you know that, Congressman.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u226	That's too bad.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u227	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u228	In your opening remarks, Mr. Keeper of the Seals, you insisted on the urgent need, in a democracy, in a republic, to ensure, as in our eyes, the separation of powers, including the independence of justice, consubstantial to this pillar of the Republic. I want to ask you about a specific subject that relates to the independence of the judiciary. As everyone knows, the law of 25 July 2013 has removed the possibility for the keeper of seals to give instructions in individual cases – this is a good thing, it is a step forward. However, as you have indicated, it has not stopped the provision of information on these same individual files, which it has on the contrary framed. This is the objective of the circular of 31 January 2014. The challenge is to re-establish the links between our fellow citizens and justice. It is a matter of concern that the fundamentals, the pillars of the Republic, are being called into question. In this context, the situation I have described is no longer tenable. I'm not the only one to say that. When asked by Attorney General François Molins whether the reform of the prosecutor's statute would change the situation, he replied: "It's obvious. The opinion of the Supreme Council of the Judiciary must be binding on the Government. On the other hand, you are aware of the risk that a less democratic party – let's say so – may one day come to power and choose its own prosecutors.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u229	You're mixing things up!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u230	That is the point of the precise question that I am asking you. [[Mr. Ugo Bernalicis applauds]] Our colleague Ugo Bernalicis' proposal 22 reads as follows: "to put an end to the flow of judicial information in individual cases to the executive, except for those which call for direct intervention by the executive – such as disasters or mass terrorist attacks". Would you agree to apply it?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u231	It is Mr. Keeper of the Seals who has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u232	I think I have answered your question completely in my opening remarks, Mr Jumel, but I will clarify things a little. I've heard about reporting since I was in the Chancery. What is it? In fact, these are e-mail messages that are sent to me by the DACG – whose director is here – and are intended to inform me of what is happening in our country: an inquiry, an indictment, a decision to dismiss. Nothing more, nothing less. As soon as I have this information, which is important, I cannot give any order to any prosecutor. And if I come – to God please – the crazy and unconstitutional idea of calling a prosecutor, I guarantee you that it won't take three minutes! Indeed, in the second – I know how things work, and I knew it before I came to the Chancery – the prosecutor would inform his hierarchy that we tried to put pressure on him. In such cases, he protects himself, and he's right. Let's stop feeding these fantasies! In addition, we never talk about it, but sometimes a press article arrives on my desk even before the information I'm brought up.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u233	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u234	I don't know.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u235	Indeed, there are well-informed journalists, some of whom even publish elements that should be covered by the secrecy of investigation and investigation. I sometimes find information in the press that the DACG has not sent me yet – and I think that the feedback is working well! The DACG answers me when it does not have this information either, because it takes time for it to come back. With regard to these fantasies – I have only heard this since I arrived in the ministry – I would also like to point out that the best informed of all ministers is not the keeper of seals, but the minister of the interior.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u236	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u237	[[Didier Paris smiles]] He is informed of everything, and for reasons, since police and gendarmerie investigations, in particular, are at the forefront of the proceedings. I have no problem with that. Then it's a question of ethics: what do you do with the information that goes back to you? We must not prejudge the worst, even on the part of the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u238	Mrs Naïma Moutchou has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u239	There is a poison as powerful, perhaps more so, than the lack of means of justice: the poison of suspicion. Is our justice truly independent? The underlying grievance – the lack of independence of justice – is old, but it is true, and it is not disputed, that it has been particularly acute in recent years. To be clear, I am not talking here about the classic criticisms of those who, because they are targeted by justice, will immediately cry out to conspiracy or systematically accuse judges of connivance in order, of course, to make believe in orderly justice, manipulated by the political power in place. It is the traditional chestnut tree of some political professionals; I'm not interested. What interests me and alerts me is the lack of confidence in justice, as expressed by our fellow citizens. According to a survey by the FIFG – Institut français d'opinion publique – of 2019, less than one in two French – I insist on this figure – judges are independent of political power. This refers us to the question of the status of the prosecution service, which obviously needs to be clarified in order to restore confidence. This is proposed in particular by the report of the commission of inquiry on obstacles to the independence of the judiciary. I know your ambition, Minister, to bring the people closer to justice and to revalue the institution. I remember your offensive speech on the subject on the occasion of your appointment and I know how the independence of justice is at the heart of your concerns and priorities. In fact, you have obtained a historic budget for your ministry: this is a first major step towards achieving this objective of independence, which I wish once again to welcome. We are now ready to go through the institutional path of the method of appointing prosecutors – all my colleagues have mentioned this during the debate. Our current position seems all the less tenable since its contradiction with European standards is becoming more apparent with the imminent entry into office of the European Public Prosecutor, who will be completely independent. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] This reform is expected. It is essential for justice and democracy. That is the level of demand that we owe to the French. Minister, are you still in favour of it? What road map can you propose to us in the time constraints of Parliament?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u240	It is Mr. Keeper of the Seals who has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u241	These independence issues are so complicated... I know that our fellow citizens are not always there. But when we see the number of political figures prosecuted and charged, we can still say, fortunately, that the justice of our country is independent. I apologize, because when you say that, you say nothing and I want to answer your legitimate question. At present, a prosecutor is appointed on the proposal of the guard of the seals and after the advice of the Supreme Council of the Judiciary. Since the beginning of the legislature, the opinions of the Supreme Council of the Judiciary have always been followed and I do not intend to derogate from this rule. However, I do not want to go any further. It is now hoped that political power will no longer play any role in the appointment of prosecutors. This is already the case for the judges of the seat, and so it is. The prosecutors want the same thing to go on with them: the President of the Republic has already said no, with clarity, to the President of the Supreme Council of the Judiciary. Why? Because criminal policy is conducted by the keeper of seals and it is normal that he wants to surround himself with people he thinks he can work with. This is the least we can do, which does not detract from the opinion of the Supreme Council of the Judiciary, which we respect. If, tomorrow, prosecutors are appointed as judges of the seat, the risk is that they will constitute a "watertight bubble", to use Daniel Soulez Larivière's formula. But what would their legitimacy be? As far as I am concerned, if my criminal policy is rejected by our fellow citizens, we will obviously be punished in the ballot box. That gives us legitimacy. Mine, I don't have it from any trade union, but from the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister: it is our Constitution. I propose the magistrates with whom I think I can work; The Supreme Council of the Judiciary gives its opinion, which is respected. I can't hear it going any further. As far as constitutional reform is concerned, it is, as you know, in the hands of the President of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u242	Thank you, Mr. Keeper of Seals.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u243	He will decide; He knows what he has to do about it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u244	It's a real subject!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u245	Mr Bruno Questel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u246	The Ministry of Justice issues approvals to certain associations under specific conditions. Article 2-23 of the Code of Criminal Procedure lays down the criteria according to which they may enjoy the rights of the civil party in certain suspected offences. The question of the purpose, instrumentalisation and transparency of the internal functioning of these associations is regularly raised. The committee of inquiry into the obstacles to the independence of the judiciary, set up at the initiative of the group La France insoumée, has not curiously and unfortunately wished to address this subject in depth in the context of its work. In our country, a substantive debate on the place of justice is difficult to organize. There is a growing suspicion that the judiciary would be subject to partisan influences that would undermine the views of particular oppositions, or mask the supposed crackdowns of a particular majority. In recent years, an elected candidate who has been accused, but who has been cleared at the end of an investigation, is inescapably suspected of benefiting from a questionable functioning of justice. And the approved associations rise up in paragons of virtue in front of the elected representatives of all sides. They could only prosper on the ruins of a democracy that was too long unable to reform, to replenish itself, to regenerate itself. It is therefore appropriate for national representation to question their real relationship to democracy, but also their contribution to a better functioning of the justice system when they form civil parties on certain issues. Indeed, these associations, whose approval is granted for three years, never fail to accuse, even in anticipation, the public authorities of simply wishing to abolish them. We should therefore ask ourselves, on the one hand, about their place in the democratic and judicial process and, on the other, about the prospects for the evolution of their status, rights and obligations. Indeed, some of them describe themselves as "the revealing of the penetration of civil society in the judicial debate" and "the people of justice must now accept it". They do, however, omit the fact that the representation of society as a whole falls within the prerogative of the Public Prosecutor's Office, which must ask us about the mechanisms induced by these same approved associations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u247	It is Mr. Keeper of the Seals who has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u248	I am not going to answer you, Mr. Questel, because I understand that you are referring in particular to Anticor. You will understand that, in the position that is mine, I do not wish to go on this ground. In fact, it is the Prime Minister who will say, when the time comes – in the coming days, it seems to me – if Anticor is to be "rehabilitated", if you will allow me the expression. For my part, I will not say anything about this question, even if I do not miss the envy.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u249	Mr Olivier Marleix has the floor for the first of his two questions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u250	In a book entitled Welcome Place Beauvau, published in March 2017, three journalists from the chained Canard wrote about the presidency of the Republic: "The Castle has become a master in the art of pushing and slowing down the fire under political pans. To bury without classification, just give instructions to dig in preliminary ad vitam aeternam. » Of course, you will tell me, minister, that we are talking about ancient highlights. But the question of time and the pace of justice is always a question. How can we not be surprised by the differences in chronology on a number of files? In the Fillon case, while the presidential election should have led to a form of reserve, of weighting, the justice system has been rushing. Top time, it took 48 days to issue an indictment. On the other hand, in other cases opened since the beginning of the quinquennium, it would sometimes have taken three years to reach an examination. I am thinking of the investigation into the allegedly fictitious jobs of MODEM, the investigation into the Mutuelles de Bretagne, or the investigation into Business France. And I'm not talking about all the files that seem desperately placed under the stack. For these, the PNF has announced the opening of preliminary investigations, without anything happening for long months now. This is the case with the investigation into the sale of Alstom to General Electric, initiated in January 2019, or the investigation into Mr Benalla's Russian contracts, which started in February 2019. As with the seven-hour leg, the fire does not seem very bright: it cooks very slowly. I am also not talking about another preliminary investigation conducted by the PNF, during which he peeled the fadettes of the greatest Parisian criminalists and which remained open for four years; I'm sure you remember, minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u251	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u252	At the time, you had spoken of "slanderous barbuzard methods" and said: "We are seeing the limits of this judicial system that is going mad. » My question therefore fully supports the discussions we have had in the Committee of Inquiry. Shouldn't we, by law, guide the prosecutor's mission in time? The conduct of public actions renders inconceivable the investigations prior to the long term. Moreover, should not judicial information also be regulated within legal time limits, in particular with regard to political-judicial cases whose citizens never see the result, except, of course, the dilatory manoeuvres that can be carried out by the persons in question? It is unacceptable for litigants that justice should conduct its investigations for too long.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u253	Thank you, Congressman.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u254	It is unacceptable for citizens to see that justice is not progressing and is not being done. And it is unacceptable, both for citizens and for justice, to imagine that the pace of justice can depend on political considerations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u255	It is Mr. Keeper of the Seals who has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u256	[[Mr Olivier Marleix acquiesce]] You're right, the word "preliminary" has meaning. However, preliminary investigations can last four years, with every week a new episode of media show, thanks to small exchanges, here and there, between certain police officers, magistrates and journalists – I say "some," because I have never put everyone in the same bag. I repeat to you, Member: it is unbearable!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u257	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u258	But we are going to reform this operation. Don't look forward to it, we're working on it. I want the preliminary investigation to be very preliminary. Just as I want the investigation to begin at some point, with the right to a lawyer when you're a suspect: that's the least I can do. In one of the cases you have mentioned, journalists have the full minutes of the preliminary investigation, although, according to the procedure, the person concerned does not have access to them. I say it again, it's unbearable. Whatever the status of each other in these investigations, things work this way and it's unbearable! (Applause from the LaREM Group. – Mr Bruno Bilde also applauds.)
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u259	Mr Olivier Marleix has the floor for his second question.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u260	It is also intended, Minister, to give you inspiration for your reform of the preliminary inquiry. Article 40 (2) of the Code of Criminal Procedure provides that when the prosecutor closes a case without further action, the prosecutor shall notify the complainants and, where appropriate, the victims, with the obligation, since 2007, to give reasons for his decision. Unfortunately, it is often all-round formulas that are used, such as: "After investigation, I find that the facts cannot constitute a criminal offence," or "The investigation did not identify the perpetrator". These formulae often leave the complainant hungry and may give rise to suspicion, in the case of politico-judicial cases, of a possible ranking without further complacency on the part of the prosecutor to the executive authority that appointed him. Don't you think it would be time, too, to imagine something other than motivation? For example, in the event of a classification without further action, the public prosecutor could inform the complainant of the investigative acts that have actually taken place in the course of the proceedings. This would at least make it possible to object to the reality, seriousness and consistency of the investigation in question.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u261	It is Mr. Keeper of the Seals who has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u262	It is already possible to access the file. I would add that, if we are not satisfied with the way in which a classification without follow-up has been drafted, the Code of Criminal Procedure provides for the possibility of filing an appeal. It is then up to the Attorney-General to examine the classification without further action pronounced by the public prosecutor. I agree, it's perfect. But I imagine that you will submit interesting amendments to me when the bill is considered.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u263	Mr Jean-Pierre Cubertafon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u264	First of all, let me have an emotional thought for Marielle de Sarnez. My question concerns the links that may exist between defence secrecy and the serene work of justice. In recent years, resounding cases have been marked by the use of defence secrecy, unfortunately invoked to remove individuals – from public decision-makers – from their criminal responsibilities. Of course, the existence of a defence secret in our country is necessary. France's interests and its external security require that information, objects or documents be specially protected. Such information could be a major target for foreign services or individuals seeking to destabilize the State and society. In the case of a judicial case, the Defence Code provides for a specific procedure to possibly allow the judicial authority, which is not an authorized authority, to access documents classified as secret defence where this is necessary for its investigation. Article L. 2312-4 of the Defence Code provides that magistrates may submit a reasoned application to the administrative authority which classified the document, in order to remove such protection. The requested minister must immediately refer the matter to the National Defence Secret Commission – CDS – which issues an opinion. Within 10 days of receipt of the decision, the court must notify the court concerned of its decision. The NDC's opinion is not, although it is followed in the vast majority of cases. Minister, I am asking you about the functioning of this procedure. Is it satisfying today to ensure the protection of our documents? Could its evolution be necessary in the coming years? Should consideration be given to transforming the opinion of the NDSC into a assent binding on the competent administrative authority, or even a revision of the procedure for the secret classification of defence?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u265	It is Mr. Keeper of the Seals who has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u266	To tell you the truth, MP, I don't know what to say. You yourself have carefully hustled the mechanism that applies, in particular the provisions of article L. 2312-4 of the Defence Code, which provides for the possibility for a magistrate to obtain a declassification of documents after notice of a commission. When your question came to me – which I thank you for having forwarded to my services – I asked them if they had been aware of any alerts or difficulties. That's not the case. For a long time – because I asked that we go back beyond the last six months – it is estimated that the system is working well. To go further, I asked the relevant ministries, particularly the defence ministry, whether there were any difficulties. There aren't any. The committee you mentioned gives its opinion. I think things are pretty fluid. There is therefore no reason to change the texts in this respect.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u267	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u268	My question is part of the reflection carried out by the mission on the rights and duties of justice actors. The recent departure of an influential magistrate from the national financial prosecutor's office to a large law firm has led me to questions about the mechanism for mobility to the private sector of a magistrate. Such a departure generates conflicts of interest that deserve our attention. It was found, after consulting with the College of Judicial Ethics and having received a reasoned response, and after consultation with the HATVP – High Authority for the Transparency of Public Life – that no measures were foreseen to assess the consequences of such a departure in the light of the recent position of the person concerned and the cases he was dealing with and, if necessary, to express reservations about his new assignment. The slippering of senior officials is under review by HATVP and the Ethics Commission within HATVP. The Commission may make reservations within three years of their departure and obtain details of the persons with whom they can work, the relationships they can establish and the files they can handle. It seems to me that the independence of justice does not prevent the HATVP from controlling the judiciary movement, as is the case for the high public service. Doesn't the legal vacuum now accepted and recognized by the ethics college and HATVP seem to you to have to be filled quickly?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u269	It is Mr. Keeper of the Seals who has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u270	I don't understand your questions. A brilliant magistrate, it seems, decides to resign and opts for the bar. It's not a renegade. Some of his former colleagues see very badly that he becomes a lawyer. Frankly, I don't see what the problem is. I, who campaign for openness to each other, did not understand their reaction. He resigned. So he's free to go where he wants and where the wind is. What difficulties does this career choice, professional choice or choice of life pose? This magistrate, who everyone agrees to say was brilliant, wished for reasons which were of his own choosing to join the bar. It's good for the bar and sad for the judiciary, which has lost a good element. That's all I can tell you.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u271	Mr Jean-Charles Larsonneur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u272	Justice draws its strength from the trust it inspires. Our fellow citizens must be able to rely on impartial justice and on judges who have only the law and the general interest as their compass. This requirement justifies the guarantees of independence enjoyed by judges Justice is also an institution responsible for a public service. She is at the service of the French people, on whose behalf she renders her judgments. The report which we are debating draws interesting perspectives to give it its proper place in the Republic. I would also like to ask you about the order of indictment. The reason for this is today only when it is accompanied by pre-trial detention. I think there should be more room for adversarial. A public hearing on charges could also be required, which would be all the more legitimate given that the secrecy of the investigation is no longer fully respected and that, for many of our fellow citizens, the indictment is indeed an admission of guilt. This is proposed by the rapporteur, who recommends that the notice of indictment should take the form of a reasoned and advertising order. Mr. Keeper of the Seals, will you take up this recommendation?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u273	It is Mr. Keeper of the Seals who has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u274	The major risk is to freeze things at the beginning of a trial and not to allow the necessary fluidity which must prevail throughout a procedure whose indictment is, in a way, the preamble. That is what I am likely to object to, a priori, to what you can advocate. My feeling, I repeat, is that we must not rigidize things.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u275	Mr Jean-Christophe Lagarde has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u276	I will go back to the preliminary investigations, proof that, on all levels of the Assembly and within the Government, we realize that they are the main focus of criticism of the French criminal procedure. These preliminary investigations are accused of being carried out without any control from an independent judge – apart from a marginal recourse to the judge of freedoms and detention for the implementation of specific measures – and of lasting as long as the prosecutor's office wishes, in other words, potentially political power, which leads to a form of imprescriptibility of cases, either to the political initiative or to that of the magistrate, and finally to offer the prosecution a means of arbitrary and lasting pressure. We can imagine what this would give in the case of a less democratic majority: today we are talking about "illiberal governments" here or there: it could, alas! We'll be here too. The preliminary investigation procedure is not contradictory. It is completely secret, except when indiscretions which have been skilfully leaked in the press come to inform the citizens even though the subject of the investigation is not known to the one who will be interrogated... In fact, I would have a proposal on this: if we could not do otherwise, the people concerned should, from the first leak in the press, have full, complete and complete access to the file. That would be very dissuasive for those who would be tempted to leak information. In addition to this imbalance, the preliminary investigation also makes it possible to hear suspects for years and on several occasions, or even to carry out several searches without being able to know what they are potentially accused of, in disregard of all the guarantees imposed by the protection of the rights of the defence. Such a situation exposes France to a condemnation by the European Court of Human Rights. The difference in the treatment of suspects according to whether the investigation is carried out under the authority of the prosecutor's office, which does not enjoy full independence, or within the framework of judicial information respecting the rights of the defence, is instructive – especially since the orientation of non-criminal cases is carried out solely by the prosecutor's office. It is with great hope, therefore, that we are awaiting a bill capable of finally bringing France up to the level of the rights of the defence that should make its reputation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u277	It is Mr. Keeper of the Seals who has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u278	Mr. Congressman, I'm glad you're hoping. And you're right: there's something to do, because we're working a lot on this issue – and not just on it. The idea of opening the proceedings to the adversarial in the event of a leak, we had already had it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u279	Good!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u280	I'm not gonna fight for his fatherhood. We can be many who have a good idea. This is a lead: the investigator and the judge would be deprived of the desire to deliver to someone minutes covered by the secrecy of the investigation because the police, for the sake of efficiency, need to maintain their confidentiality. Those who immediately disclose the minutes would have to think twice about it. As for the person concerned, he would have access to something other than press articles that sanction his sad misadventure and could better defend himself in due course. I am delighted that we find ourselves on this idea, which is very commonly shared. I said, you were right to hope. It is time to put an end to these preliminary investigations, which in some cases can last up to four or even six years. That's my answer.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u281	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u282	Mr Bruno Bilde has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u283	Judges perform their duties on behalf of the French people, which in theory prevents them from replacing the legislator. Yet we have seen for too long a militant drift of some judges, who have developed an ideological and political vision of justice. In the name of the rule of law, militant judges try to impose their dogma on society as a whole. In this way, we are being politicized by the judiciary, which means that some magistrates systematically release offenders arrested by the police. Others erect "walls of cons" to stigmatize personalities who do not share their opinions. While justice should be exercised on behalf of the French people, it is too often done on the basis of criteria that trample on democratic principles. We must end the corporatist reflexes and dogmatism of a part of the judiciary, breaking with the culture of laxism and reforming the training of magistrates. We propose the establishment of a common training course for judicial careers and the maintenance of specific schools of application. In the interests of greater efficiency of justice, we share proposal No 13 of the report, which seeks to increase the budgetary means of justice. We also propose to increase the number of magistrates, why not by external recruitment? My question is: when will the separation of powers actually be applied in France?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u284	It is Mr. Keeper of the Seals who has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u285	[[Smile]] After hope comes despair. In reality, the separation of powers exists, even if we observe, at the margin, some behaviour that is not correct, in view of these essential rules in a rule of law. Only, you mix everything.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u286	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u287	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u288	In my opinion, there is no culture of laxism.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u289	It doesn't exist!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u290	I certainly know what you are saying, or rather your incantations, but I have already told Mrs Le Pen and I repeat to you: all the figures are there. There is no culture of laxism in our country, even if it makes it easier for you to pretend otherwise. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] You mix this concept with the "wall of cons" and the politicization of justice, while we must treat subjects sparingly and circumspectly. In our country, the independence of the judiciary is fortunately preserved. From time to time, there are things that don't work. We have to settle them, but we can't put everyone in the same bag. When I was a lawyer, I made distinctions between some and others. As a minister, I do the same analysis and the same findings. On these questions, honourable Member, we must not go with the axe, but proceed with a nuance and moderation, which we do not always find in your remarks.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u291	The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-14-O1130.u292	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Situation of trade and other sectors affected by the crisis of the Covid-19; Debate on housing policy. The meeting is adjourned.
