ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u1	The next item is the continuation of the discussion, pursuant to Article 34(1) of the Constitution, of the motion for a resolution on the establishment of an exceptional plan to accompany the rapid ageing of Martinique (point 2757).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u2	This morning, the Assembly began to hear the speakers in the general discussion. Mrs Annie Chapelier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u3	The youngest department in France in 1950, Martinique will be a century later, in 2050, the oldest department in our country. While the challenge of autonomy concerns all the French territories and has led our majority to create a fifth branch of social security, the extent and speed of Martinique's ageing are indistinguishable from the situation we are experiencing in metropolitan France. In fact, INSEE's population projections estimate that 40% of the population in Martinique will be over 60 years of age by 2030. This trend is not unique to Martinique, since the same phenomenon is observed in Guadeloupe, however, to a lesser extent. Such a demographic reversal, which took place in just a few decades, is due to many factors. First of all – and this is good news – the increase in life expectancy. The French Antilles thus holds the record longevity of the Caribbean zone, since the average life expectancy is estimated at more than 81 years, men and women combined. It also stems from the very rapid decline in the birth rate since the beginning of the 2000s: between 1999 and 2015, births declined by 30% in Martinique. It finally finds its origin in the massive emigration of the younger generations – and this is less good news – to Hexagon. A 2015 study shows that 40% of women and 47% of men aged 25-34 and native to Martinique or Guadeloupe live in metropolitan France. This emigration is all the more pronounced among young graduates; It also contributes, of course, to reducing the number of young women of childbearing age present on the island and explains for a great deal the decline in the birth rate. These three factors, in addition, lead to the accelerated ageing that Martinique is experiencing today. The imbalance in the age pyramid is also part of a context of high social insecurity: 30 per cent of the over-75s live below the poverty line in Martinique, compared with an average of 8 per cent in Hexagon. As far as this department is concerned, the stakes in health, dependency, employment, mobility or housing are therefore considerable, especially since it is also facing enormous social challenges, revealed in the light of the current crisis. In this context, our colleague Manuela Kéclard-Mondésir's motion for a resolution calls on the Government to deploy an exceptional contingency plan to accompany the rapid ageing of Martinique. On the principle and in view of the figures I have just mentioned, it seems obvious that Martinique needs the support of the State to overcome the demographic upheaval it is undergoing. On the substance, however, this motion for a resolution does not provide any concrete and operational solution to address it, as most of the measures contained in it are already satisfied. Thus, article 1 suggests, for example, the creation of an agency of autonomy, bringing together the State and the territorial community of Martinique, to take care of the old age. This corresponds precisely to the functioning and missions of the departmental autonomy houses (MDA), which already exist. Article 2 provides for the creation of an exceptional fund for the rehabilitation of six EHPADs and the development of new accommodation solutions for seniors. Such an objective is doubly satisfied. It is on the one hand thanks to the plan of investment of the Ségur de la santé in the field of medico-social, since 20 million euros have already been directed towards ultramarine EHPADs in 2021; and on the other hand by Article 36 bis B of the bill "3DS" – on differentiation, decentralization, deconcentration and various measures to simplify local public action – which aims to promote the development, in the overseas, of intermediate housing solutions for persons with disabilities or loss of autonomy. Article 4 proposes a gradual increase in the amount of the personalized autonomy allowance (APA); The draft law on the financing of social security (PLFSS) for 2022 responds to this request by introducing a floor rate of 22 euros per hour, while the hourly rate in Martinique oscillates around 19 euros. Article 5 aims to encourage the return of young Martinic doctors to their home department. It is an approach that makes sense to combat ultramarine medical desertification, but it is purely incantatory, since the motion for a resolution does not specify how this can be achieved. Finally, Article 6 proposes to mobilise more young people in the support of older people. It turns out that this is exactly the objective pursued by the opening of 10,000 civic service missions to elderly people, especially in EHPAD, following the health crisis. Ladies and gentlemen, you will have understood this, because the proposed measures are either satisfied – or outdated – or inoperative, the Group of the European People's Party will not vote in favour of the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u4	Mr Yannick Favennec-Becot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u5	First and foremost, the independent IDU group wishes to express its concern about the situation in the West Indies. Because we are particularly committed to the freedom of local communities, especially those in the overseas regions, we believe that the path to be taken is obviously that of dialogue and listening. We can only be alarmed at the statement made in this motion for a resolution. In a few decades, Martinique, which was one of the youngest territories in the country, is at risk of becoming its oldest. The reasons for this sudden ageing of the population are undoubtedly many, and the difficulties experienced by the people of Martinique on a daily basis often lead them to leave their territory in search of a better quality of life. We share the diagnosis made by the text, which I believe is based on two main axes: it aims first to ensure the emergence of an ecosystem favourable to the return of the Martinic brains to their native land, and then to accompany the autonomy of the Martinic seniors. As far as autonomy is concerned, we agree that it is a black spot of the present quinquennium. The creation of the fifth branch of social security will not have made it possible to initiate the residential shift or to improve the supervision rate in EHPADs. It should be noted that the plan for the autonomy of the elderly, announced by the Prime Minister last September, foresees the recruitment of an additional 10,000 officers in the EHPADs within five years, where the Libault report on the consultation "Great Age and Autonomy" recommended the recruitment of 800,000 people. In other words, at the current pace, we will not be able to ensure proper supervision in our EHPADs until 2066! The account is not there: the Government will not have been able to put our country in a path that will enable us to meet this challenge for our elders. With regard to medical deserts, the situation in Martinique seems much worse than in most hexagonal departments; In this regard, we fully agree with the statement made in the text. For too long, we have placed the physician's freedom of installation above the requirement of access to care. Yet between 6 and 8 million of our citizens do not have access to a doctor – we discussed this at length during the morning. Finally, some territories, including Martinique, suffer from a real abandonment of the state. There would thus be places where one would have access to care, culture, public services, the best paid jobs, training offers, higher education, and there would be all the others, in which the State would disappear at high speed V: one could then rely on it only on the family, when it is present; life expectancy would be lower, the social elevator broke down, the retired doctor, the closed village trade and the ruined heritage. We must act, and quickly, before the break-up is consumed between the territories that live and those that survive. If there is one point on which our group is concerned, it is probably with Article 1, which aims to create an agency of autonomy involving the state and the territorial community of Martinique. Our country already has more than 1200 agencies, which are very expensive for public finances, but their effectiveness is not really demonstrated. If we are aware of existing local peculiarities, we are traditionally opposed to the creation of any new agency, because our country dies from its bureaucracy. We believe that this French reflex of identifying a problem and creating a commission, an agency, an authority, an institution, a chamber – and I am going to do so – must be abandoned. We are also very much in favour of the return of Martinique brains to their native territory through the creation of incentives. The territory of Martinique cannot develop if its youth does not work there, and I very sincerely believe that the young Martinique ask only to work there. Finally, our group is very much in favour of strengthening adapted military service (SMA); In fact, the Government itself has worked there, again this year in the overseas mission of the PLF for 2022, particularly for New Caledonia and French Polynesia. This specific scheme, dedicated to overseas countries, has shown its effectiveness in integrating into employment, and the success rates of those who benefit from it are, it must be said, very encouraging. [[Applause on several benches of the GDR group]] In conclusion, the IDU and independent group will support the motion for a resolution; It sets out a fundamental problem for Martinique, to which national representation must provide an effective and concrete response.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u6	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u7	At the national level, the number of French and French people is growing and they are getting older: our country is getting older, as we know. The portrait of tomorrow's France is emerging; economic, health and social issues will be raised in new terms. Such an evolution obviously requires us to rethink intergenerational solidarity, and it is now, without delay, that we must anticipate by deciding on the answers to these new challenges. While all territories are affected by ageing, the situation in Martinique is more than alarming. In fifty years, she will become the oldest department in France, when she was one of the youngest. This accelerated shift has a main cause: the mass exodus of the younger generations, among others the students, who are many to leave their island to continue their studies. Concern about ageing is all the more acute as it combines with other problems, particularly poverty. In general, the ultramarine, peripheral and island territories often face the same problems: their inhabitants age faster – and worse – and the difficulties encountered on the continent are multiplied. I am also thinking of Corsica, which is somewhat expensive to me, as you know. However, the obstacles are combined. When we examined the previous text, we referred to medical desertification, which is progressing. In island territories, inequalities in access to care are aggravated; At the same time, the health needs of their aging populations are increasing. In Martinique, in particular, low medical density poses a risk of non-use of care that is stronger than in metropolitan France. As for the policy of support for autonomy, it also continues to be weakened by very strong underinvestment and territorial inequalities. The Liberties and Territories Group has always placed this issue among its main concerns, supporting two imperatives: on the one hand, such a policy must be financed by national solidarity, and on the other hand, it must respect the will and dignity of people in situations of dependence. In fact, territorial inequalities prevent the management of dependency in a homogeneous and satisfactory way throughout the territory: disparities are emerging and very strong gaps exist in the overseas territories. So, how can we not look at a proposal for enhanced measures and attention to Martinique, as well as all those aimed at protecting the most vulnerable territories? Luc Broussy's report on the adaptation of habitat to ageing devotes an entire chapter to the situation of Martinique and Guadeloupe, which he considers alarming. It calls for a specific plan to anticipate and prepare for the massive ageing of populations. The Libault report, too, stresses the emergency situation in some territories, which is more vulnerable to this problem of ageing than others. As we all know, the question of autonomy, of caring for dependency, is central to our social and territorial cohesion. To respond, you propose the creation of a single agency of autonomy, which would involve the state and the territorial community of Martinique. Despite the still fragmented development of the houses of autonomy, we can only encourage the development of a one-stop-shop logic, because we regret the break-up of competences in this area. Above all, we regret that the question of autonomy was dealt with in a broken way during the quinquennium. Despite the creation of a fifth branch – still embryonic – of social security, construction sites remain: they concern the valorisation of the jobs of the link, the training of professionals, the increase of support for family caregivers or the resorption of inequalities in terms of the remaining burden. Thus, the inequalities that affect the personalized autonomy allowance will be partly resolved by the creation of a floor rate for home services. However, the question of the remainder in institutions is still relevant. More recently, the Assembly's Law Committee has adopted provisions in the bill on differentiation, decentralization, deconcentration and various measures to simplify local public action, known as 3DS, aimed at promoting the development of housing-homes overseas, including self-government residences and housing-homes in inclusive housing. These advances are welcome and respond in part to the demands of this motion for a resolution, but we regret that they are not integrated into a comprehensive reform of support for autonomy, which would ensure the coherence of measures applied at national level, but also to pay greater attention to territorial specificities and make adjustments if necessary. The Government's abandonment of the bill on old age and autonomy deprives us of the opportunity to deal with these issues in their entirety. This text could have constituted a major social reform of the quinquennium and would therefore remain a missed opportunity. [[Applause on several benches of the GDR group]] The Liberties and Territories Group will support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u8	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u9	Last Monday, INSEE published its population projections for 2070 and recalled that the ageing of the population was inevitable. Thus, by 2070, the number of people aged 60 to 74 will remain stable, but the number of people aged 75 and over will increase by more than 5 million. Not all territories will be affected in the same way, and it is in two ways that this motion for a resolution to launch an exceptional plan to accompany the rapid ageing of Martinique is timely. In 2019, the Libault report alerted us to the situation in Martinique, predicting that it would become France's oldest department in 2050. As a reminder – you must not be afraid to repeat these figures – one in four retirees perceives the minimum old age, one in three retirees over 65 years of age lives alone and in a potentially isolated way, and more than half of Martinique pensioners live below the poverty line, which is 615 euros in Martinique compared to just over 1000 euros in Hexagone – more than one in two retirees! It is therefore right to trigger an exceptional plan to accompany ageing in Martinique. We know the current situation and the past situation of the department and we know that the number of older retirees will increase, despite the majority's willingness to postpone the retirement age. In this regard, the delegation's information report to the overseas countries and territories on the great age in the overseas countries and territories already pointed out, in February 2020, that life expectancy was lower than in Hexagon and that the proportion of the elderly dependent in Martinique exceeded the national average. It therefore seems essential to devote additional resources to the overseas territories most affected by the accelerated ageing: Martinique, first of all, and perhaps then Guadeloupe and La Réunion – these three territories being considered a priority according to the report of the delegation to the overseas countries. It would be time to consider, finally, a dignified, solidarity-based and collective care for the dependency of older people. But let us go back to Martinique and the motion for a resolution. We particularly support the proposal to plan the rehabilitation of Martinique EHPADs and to create new EHPADs in line with the growing needs. Indeed, in the field of geriatric and health care, Martinique and, more generally, the overseas territories are under-equipped: the public services on site will no longer be able to meet the needs of the future. Martinique's regional health agency (ARS) estimates that ten additional geriatric positions will be required over the next ten years. The current sub-dotation, not to say the geriatric desert, which characterizes Martinique aggravates the non-use of care for people who, however, need stronger care and support from the nation. That is why we also support the proposal to plan for the gradual increase in the personalized autonomy allowance, which would limit, and eventually eliminate, the remainder for dependents and their families – this is another explanation of non-recourse. There is no need to repeat again the figures and the observations of the motion for a resolution, which is perfectly clear. The majority has repeatedly promised us a bill on old age and autonomy, but it has just buried it in favour of measures that do not match the deprivation in which some of our elders live, yet which would require urgent decisions. They also do not take into account the working conditions of professionals in the sector, on the front line in the face of health problems, in times of covid -19 as in normal times. The motion for a resolution will therefore not supplement the draft law on old age and autonomy, but it will be combined with the programme of La France unsolicited by 2022, "L'Avenir en commun", which plans to launch a multi-year plan for investment and development of public services in the overseas territories, as well as the construction of a public service of dependency – to which, as you know, I am very attached. This will include the development of a public network of retirement homes at harmonised and accessible rates and the creation of 10,000 places per year in public EHPADs for five years. We also plan to train and recruit at least 210,000 people – we have not stopped, since 2018, telling you that these jobs were necessary. Finally, we will need to upgrade the trades and incomes of all older professionals, whether they work at home or in institutions. This motion for a resolution specifically concerns Martinique, but it paves the way for an ambitious and collective management of our elders in all the overseas territories. It has the merit of recalling the situation of people often forgotten because they cannot mobilize – unlike the younger generations, whose mobilizations we are currently following in the West Indies and Martinique. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] Finally, I greet the elderly people of Martinique. The Group of the European People's Party will of course vote in favour of the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u10	The general discussion is closed. On the motion for a resolution, I have a request from the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. The Deputy Minister for Self-Government has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u11	Accelerated aging observed in several ultramarine territories, particularly in Martinique, is a very important issue. I therefore welcome this discussion, especially since the motion for a resolution had been tabled with the National Assembly Bureau in March 2020. In less than two years, however, we have come a long way with our ultramarine compatriots, in particular Martinique.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u12	It's happy!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u13	The need is there and has been largely documented by the information report of Stephanie Atger and Ericka Bareigts on behalf of the Overseas Delegation of the National Assembly. The insularity of the majority of overseas departments and communities makes it more difficult for older people to avail themselves of the means of supporting self-reliance. At the same time, the population is changing, the birth rate is decreasing, life expectancy is increasing and the search for employment is driving a large number of young people to join Hexagon – this is a fact. In short, these territories are rapidly entering the society of longevity. In less than thirty years, almost half of Martinique will be over 60 years old. The State is aware of this situation and will respond to it. The motion for a resolution makes many recommendations, many of which you know are in the process of being satisfied by the Government, which has given me the honour of entrusting me with the task of implementing its ambition in the field of old age. Allow me, Mrs Kéclard-Mondésir, to review the measures you are proposing in this motion for a resolution. In terms of governance, first of all, the text recommends the creation of a structure that would enable the community of Martinique to truly exercise the skills assigned to it. This "autonomy agency" would be created in the form of a public interest grouping (PIG) and would promote a more flexible and adapted operation to the specificities of the territory. This possibility already exists in Martinique. On the other hand, the involvement of the State as a party to the IPTF could be seen as a recentralisation of the department's competence. In addition, the community has not made any requests to this effect to date. My policy on behalf of the Government in support of self-government is, on the contrary, to facilitate the reinvestment of communities so that they fully assume their own competence. To illustrate this, I want to respond now to the ambition expressed in Article 4 of the motion for a resolution. The definition and payment of the APA amount fall under the responsibility of the departments, which means that different amounts are paid from one department to another. In order to promote the development of a strong home offer, on behalf of the Government, I have undertaken the restructuring of the pricing of the structures, with a revalorisation-socle of the APA, now set at 22 euros per hour minimum. This measure will allow ABS to catch up in the more than 70 communities in which its amount so far was below this amount, including Martinique. Its application will not result in any additional costs for communities: the new social security branch will fully and permanently compensate for the differential, i.e. a state investment of 240 million as of next year. I would add that home care structures that will enter into a contracting process aimed at improving the quality of service, supporting the autonomy of older people, combating their isolation, accompanying caregivers or improving the working conditions of their employees will receive an additional €3 per hour. This measure will represent a state investment of EUR 500 million by 2025 and will primarily concern Martinique. In the area of investment, you suggest that the Government set up an experimental fund to rehabilitate certain EHPADs and to allow the development of alternative accommodation solutions. So you probably welcome the rupture of the Ségur de la Santé in terms of investment! Together with the Prime Minister and the Minister of Solidarity and Health, I visit a new region every week to announce the projects we will finance to renovate health facilities and social and medical institutions. While the vast majority of these institutions have not benefited from extensive renovations in more than 20 years, the Government intends to meet the needs throughout the national territory and acts. We will shortly be presenting an important overseas investment plan. It will meet clearly identified needs. As you have pointed out, EHPAD cannot, moreover, be the alpha and the omega of the policy of accommodation for people who are losing their autonomy. We need to identify alternative accommodation solutions for people who do not need a high level of medicalisation to live independently, but still a certain level of security. That is why we are opening up the possibility of creating independent overseas residences in Bill 3DS, which has already been discussed in committee and will begin consideration in public next Monday. In order to develop such projects, you have rightly pointed out, however, it is necessary to take into account the costs of engineering. We took this subject in arm-to-body and gave it two answers. The first, short-term, aims to enable institutions applying for the investment component of the Ségur de la santé to be accompanied in the development of their project. The second is structural: Bill 3DS is the legislative vehicle that will allow the financing of these costs by the conference of financers of the prevention of loss of autonomy. On the other hand, many of your proposals do not seem appropriate to me, Mrs. Kéclard-Mondésir. Some are even inoperative. Thus, the creation of specific tax exemption schemes for a given category of establishments and geographical area, as you propose for VAT on small units of life in Martinique, would create a precedent that is difficult to justify. To assert these exemptions, you rely on the Overseas Agency for Mobility (LADOM), but you would also set a precedent here, especially since these exemptions are the responsibility of the tax authorities and LADOM does not have jurisdiction in this area. With regard to the return to Martinique of Martinique caregivers, you propose to resort to the centre of material and moral interests, the CIMM. I understand your goal, but I don't think the way is right. Indeed, Martinique is one of the communities in which the facility qualifies for the public service contract (PSEC), to which young doctors can subscribe during their studies – we recalled this morning when we examined the previous text. In return for their installation in an underfunded area, young doctors receive relatively comfortable funding for their studies. This scheme is more ambitious than the use of CIMM: not content with facilitating the return to Martinique of young doctors from Martinique, it would indeed make it possible to finance their studies. On the subject of free jobs, when the motion for a resolution was tabled, we were starting an experiment in La Réunion, which is taking its course and will be evaluated next year. The question of its generalization will be considered when it is completed. You wanted to mobilise the adapted military service system and open up more places within the adapted military service regiment of Martinique (RSMA-M) to attract young people to "care" jobs. In the Martinic context, and beyond, it is an ambition that I share. In the face of the health crisis, we have taken the full step: we have opened nearly 10,000 places of civic service throughout the country to combat isolation and respond to the desire for youth engagement and the need for social ties of our seniors. For Martinique, more than 150 civic service missions are open. I believe that every young person has to find the appropriate commitment solution, but it must be noted that to date, all the places provided for in the RSMA system are unfortunately not taken. This is a pity, because this arrangement is likely to strengthen the link between our army and our young people while ensuring a more stable occupational integration for people who are sometimes far from employment. This must lead us to diversify our tools to meet commitment needs. I know that Sarah El Haïry, Secretary of State for Youth, is particularly sensitive and we are working together on this issue. It is an issue of emancipation and personal development, but also a reaffirmation of everyone's place in society. This subject is fully in line with my policy of supporting the autonomy of older people, in that it is necessarily intergenerational. I believe that the reasons for this motion for a resolution are in line with government policy. Its examination allows us to measure the progress we have made. By raising the various advances, I'm not looking for a satisfecit, it's not my type. The situation of our fellow citizens in Martinique is particularly marked by the acceleration of ageing, of which we must take all the measures. However, I am convinced that we have exceeded the ambition of this resolution. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Because of these major advances, which are part of the reasons behind this motion for a resolution, and because of my objections to a few others, you will understand that I will not give an opinion in favour of the adoption of this resolution. But the Government is committed to continuing its efforts to support all communities facing an accelerated ageing of society, first and foremost Martinique. We will continue to protect our elderly people, as we do today in the health crisis, so that they can benefit from the best possible support tomorrow.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u14	I shall put to the vote the whole motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u15	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 56 Number of votes cast 56 Absolute majority 29 For adoption 19 Against 37
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u16	The next item is the debate on the proposal for a law to reduce the inequalities in access to higher education generated by Parcoursup (No. 4588, 4707).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u17	Mrs Karine Lebon, rapporteur of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u18	My group and I came out of dubious consideration of our bill in committee. Far from being a cleavage and partisan text, however, it was conceived in an approach of openness and consensus-building. It is also the legacy of Senator Pierre Ouzoulias, who has worked extensively on this issue. If our group wants in the medium term an ambitious reform of the school system based on massive financial investments as well as the abandonment of Parcoursup, our will today is to remedy the most obvious dysfunctions of this platform. To this end, we have relied on the reports of various bodies – Court of Auditors, Defender of Rights, Centre national d'études des systèmes scolaires –, on the conclusions of a senatorial fact-finding mission led by a parliamentarian from the group Les Républicains and on the experience of the users of Parcoursup. The high school students and their families, as well as the students, denounced the stress associated with this procedure in opinion polls or during the hearings. So the question we are asking ourselves is simple: why does this problem leave the majority and the Government indifferent? Do they really believe that the Parcourup system is perfect? Answering this question in the affirmative would be to the best of blindness, to the worst of contempt for the thousands of young people who suffer from the dysfunctions of this platform and the major consequences they have for their life course. When it comes to making decisions for young people and their future, our most basic duty is to take into account their feelings and aspirations. We have carried out this exercise and have only been able to see the very great perfection of the procedure of access to higher education, which is now experienced as a factor of dissatisfaction, arbitrariness and anxiety. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] The deployment of the Parcoursup platform has put an end to the post-bac admission draw system (PDB) and is, of course, a single space in which an increasing number of information on higher education is centralized. However, this cannot mask the increasing selectivity of access to higher education. Indeed, the increase in student demography has not given rise to the necessary financial investments, both in terms of volume and in terms of the adequacy of the distribution of resources with the needs of the field. The Court of Auditors regrets that the new places financed have not benefited the most strained training. No algorithm will be able to compensate for this underinvestment, which betrays a lack of ambition for our education system. An algorithm can only manage, as it does, more or less decently the increase in the selectivity and waiting time of candidates for an assignment. For the technological and professional graduates, the problem is more acute: because of the insufficient and inadequate reception capacity in higher technician sections (STS) and university institutes of technology (IUT), their expectations are on average higher, and they are also more likely not to be assigned after the Coursup procedure.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u19	She's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u20	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] However, it is not a question of describing Parcoursup as the source of the inequalities which unfortunately characterize our education system and threaten the strength of our republican pact. These inequalities arise and grow well upstream, without successive governments finding it appropriate to define an ambitious public policy in its aims and means to stop this phenomenon. This being clarified, far from combating these inequalities, Parcoursup worsens them and creates new ones. The mention of the school of origin allows, for example, students of "good reputation" institutions – that is, those attended by socially favoured families – to ensure that they continue their studies in the best fields. The mass of information contained in Parcoursup, coupled with the indigence of the means entrusted to the public service of guidance, give rise to real need for accompaniment. These needs are taken care of in families with school codes or with the financial means to subscribe to private accompaniment offers. The others only have to deal with it: for example, more than half of the students in the least-favoured social classes entered their applications alone on Parcoursup. [[Laughs and applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] The provisions of this bill are modest, but urgent. They also make it possible to draw the logical conclusions of the reform of the baccalaureate, which has profoundly transformed the structure of the general sector without making the necessary adjustments on Parcoursup. In view of the stakes that I have just mentioned and the method of openness that we have followed, I invite each and every one of you to take a trans-partisan approach that will allow these common-sense provisions to be adopted. And I assure you, openness is not a fracture of the skull! First of all, we want to make the original high school of candidates anonymous in the platform. As stated by the Defender of Rights, making this information a selection criterion creates a significant risk of discrimination. This practice could be used to take into account the overnoting and undernoting phenomena encountered in certain establishments. Nevertheless, there is nothing to prevent the Government from developing another indicator to correct this phenomenon, which is being reduced due to the movement to harmonize the practices of marking that the reform of the baccalaureate entails. Furthermore, we wanted to make it clear by amendment that this anonymisation will be carried out without prejudice to the proper functioning of the mechanisms aimed at ensuring equal opportunities, against which we have of course never heard of fighting. Our bill also seeks to enhance the transparency of Parcoursup. The Constitutional Council forced the officials responsible for the formations to publish a report explaining how the candidates were examined at the end of the Coursup procedure. We want to go further, asking that the selection criteria and procedures for the current year be communicated to all prior to the opening of the Coursup procedure. The expected effects are twofold. This communication, which takes place prior to the examination of the candidatures, and not afterwards, will allow the candidates to know how their dossiers will be examined by the wish review committees. And this communication will benefit everyone, not just the candidates, and will allow primary and secondary school students to have all the information they need to build their orientation project.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u21	I already do!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u22	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] The strengthening of the transparency that we call for of our wishes is not intended to deny the secret and sovereign nature of the deliberations of the juries: it is mainly a matter of making public the local algorithms of automated pre-classification of applications...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u23	That's the least I can do!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u24	... and not to prevent the members of the board from making manual rankings of applications, in particular by assessing elements of candidates' files which cannot be summarized by figures, such as letters of motivation or extracurricular commitments. For this reason, we have tabled an amendment which reminds us of our commitment to the principle of secrecy of jury deliberations and preserves the possibility for candidates to request the communication of the pedagogical reasons justifying the decision taken on their application, once it has been dealt with.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u25	That's the least I can do!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u26	Finally, the proposal for a law brings the Parcoursup system into line with the reform of the general baccalaureate. To the extent that training managers have told us that certain combinations of specialty and optional teaching are highly recommended for access to their training, it is essential that this information be widely disseminated, particularly to second-hand students. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] The increase in the number of voltage courses must be dealt with seriously, as the increasing selectivity in access to higher education results. We therefore propose to include in the law that this issue should be at the centre of the annual dialogue between the academic authority and the training managers for the determination of future reception capacities.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u27	That's positive!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u28	Moreover, this progress is called for by the Court of Auditors, which regrets that this issue, which is of paramount importance, is taken into account in a very different way depending on the territory. The inclusion in the law of the obligation to draw up an action plan for the reduction of tension in higher education is such that the answers given can be harmonized. As the situation of professional and technological graduates has deteriorated further, we also wanted to emphasize the need for academic authority to ensure that sufficient places in STS and IUT are open to them. This obligation could be an opportunity to question the territorial location of these formations: Paris, a densely populated territory, for example, has only a UTI. Finally, the hearings showed that despite the ambitious announcements made on the occasion of the Student Plan, guidance in schools suffers from many shortcomings: insufficient number of psychologists in national education, lack of guidance training for principal teachers, disappointing application of the fifty-four hours a year and the two weeks normally devoted to guidance, etc. We therefore propose to include in the law the obligation of a personalized accompaniment for each high school student from the second class. This support will allow students to better prepare for the Parcoursup deadline, especially when choosing their optional and specialty courses. High school students and their families will be attentive to the answers you are going to give to the proposals we are making today. The latter have met with the support of all the representative organisations, who are keen to see the evolution of a system whose limits are now well identified. If you have children in front of Parcoursup, they will be the first to tell you.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u29	But we have some!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u30	[[Vif applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] The Government's willingness to respond to the inequalities that Parcoursup generates and maintains will be all the more scrutinized as it has set itself the objective of creating in the coming weeks a similar platform for master access. Many student organizations have already alerted us that this tool could also increase selection and inequality. In any event, the GDR Group will be particularly attentive.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u31	The Minister for Higher Education, Research and Innovation has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u32	I can only regret, Madam rapporteur, that you did not speak the same words today as you did at our meeting about ten days ago,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u33	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u34	...with the president of the University of La Réunion, who, sitting at our table, told us how much the entry into force of Parcoursup...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u35	We were talking about APB right before!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u36	[[Long exclamations on the banks of the GDR and FI groups]] ... and the resources provided under the Student Guidance and Success Act had enabled him to pursue a genuine policy of equal opportunities at his university.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u37	Too bad there are no witnesses!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u38	So we can attack under the belt!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u39	This is outrageous!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u40	The objectives you display are, in fact, already very widely achieved.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u41	A little dignity!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u42	If the Government shares your ambition to reduce inequalities in access to higher education, we can under no circumstances endorse the arguments that you are developing.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u43	A little respect for MPs! We're not at the circus!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u44	You propose, in your explanatory statement, to delete Parcoursup.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u45	We can see you've never been elected!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u46	[[Long exclamations on the banks of the GDR and FI groups]] I would be curious to know what you intend to replace it with – because no, the Pathup platform does not embody the triumph of hypercompetitiveness, the criteria that are applied to it are not the result of mysterious algorithms and the students from the most disadvantaged classes are in no way the first victims.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u47	You know that's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u48	It's the coalman's faith!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u49	Ladies and gentlemen, please!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u50	Let me recall a few figures: 94.2% of the neobacheliers received a proposal on Parcoursup in 2021, which is a higher proportion than in 2020. This increase is particularly marked in the vocational and technological sectors. The transition from the first to the second year reached 53% in 2020, compared to 40% in 2017,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u51	It's easy! Everyone else has given up!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u52	... thanks to a better orientation of high school students and the new means given to schools to deploy accompanying devices...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u53	Valérie Pécresse said the same thing in 2017!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u54	... – because this government does not only intend to distribute student cards, but wants to support young people in their success.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u55	Pecress in the text!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u56	You claim that Parcoursup accentuates social and geographical inequalities. That's not true. Above all, it is to lend to the teams who examine the candidatures of the intentions they do not have. Again, the figures speak for themselves: thanks to our action, the rate of high school students admitted to higher education has risen from 20% to 25% in two years. For the year 2021 alone, 13600 high school fellows were admitted into the training of their choice, to which they would not have had access without the priority rates established by law.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u57	Devaquet, get out of this body!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u58	Mobility also increased: 21.7% of bachelors accepted a proposal outside their home academy, an increase of 2.2 points in a year. The EUR 500 of mobility aid granted to student fellows has also increased their mobility share from 15.3% to 17.6% at the start of the 2021 school year.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u59	Two round-trip train rides!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u60	This phenomenon is particularly marked in Île-de-France, since the number of high school fellows from the Academy of Créteil having accepted a proposal for admission to Paris has increased by 5% compared to 2020. Let us make this point: 6591 high school fellows from the Seine-Saint-Denis department were accepted in Parisian institutions and 51% of applications received a positive response.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u61	Thank you, Lord!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u62	You have our gratitude!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u63	This success rate reaches 52% for candidates who are committed to the Cordées de la succès scheme and who have expressed the wish to integrate a preparatory class in Paris.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u64	Should we fuck the babouche?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u65	Please listen to the minister. Are you not interested in his words?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u66	We can't say we're not listening to him!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u67	It would have been very difficult to obtain such results at the time when the APB portal was being used: no priority was given to scholarship students, simply, and the prioritization of vows helped to stifle audacity and reinforce self-censorship reflexes.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u68	How can I thank you?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u69	You then claim that the platform lacks transparency. Again, I want to lift several misunderstandings. Courseup has continuously improved the relevance and transparency of the assignment. Each stage of its construction has been the subject of a dialogue with the actors concerned, with a view to strengthening the work of the teaching commissions. In its decision of 3 April, the Constitutional Council intended to protect the secrecy of the deliberations to guarantee the independence of the teams and the authority of their decisions. It considered it necessary to ensure, with respect for the privacy of candidates and in the form of a report, the publicity of the criteria against which applications are examined. More than 10,000 reports have been made public and can be consulted freely.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u70	You don't even answer our mails!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u71	Not to our written questions!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u72	Transparency was also at the heart of the Student Orientation and Success Act adopted here in 2018. This text was designed to make a complete break with the logic that led to the operation of the APB portal, which I recall that the National Commission on Informatics and Freedoms (CNIL) had requested its judgment. Candidates for higher education now have increasingly rich and transparent information: 19500 State-recognized training courses are accessible on a single platform, of which just over 6,000 are in apprenticeship. The legible, complete and useful nature of this information is recognized by the students themselves, as evidenced by the opinion studies carried out with them. As far as the ranking of applications is concerned, it is not mysterious algorithms that make the selection. On the contrary, we have put human beings at the heart of the system, because it is the teachers of the host trainings who examine the candidates' files.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u73	Best wishes, Parcoursup!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u74	The purpose of these committees is to define the modalities and criteria for the examination of wishes, within the framework of the general criteria published on the platform as early as December. The review of each application is not based on fully automated processing: analytical and decision support tools are available to institutions, but they do not formulate proposals.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u75	Artificial intelligence is coming soon!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u76	These are prepared in a collegial manner and decided by the head of establishment. I use the term "proposals" on purpose, because one of the characteristics of "Parcoursup" is to leave the last word to the candidates, who can change their project throughout the procedure. In response to the accusation that we would manage the shortage, I will again oppose a few figures: 84,000 new places were created in higher education as part of the Student and France Recovery plans; the Government has spent €1 billion on the transformation of the first cycle since 2018; 13,000 new places have been created in Parcoursup for the first year of 2021, out of the 34,000 offered in universities. The reality is that never so many places have been opened in higher education, especially in the most requested courses – licences, STS, health training, paramedical training and complementary local initiative training (FCIL). The recovery plan, for example, created 1,350 places in short courses to cater for students wishing to mature their orientation or specialization project in order to integrate the labour market into occupational sectors that meet local needs. These creations of places are the result of the voluntarism of the Government, of course, but also of an in-depth dialogue, led as close as possible to the ground by the rectors with the heads of institutions – and the regional executive in the case of nursing training institutes (IFSI). It was this voluntarism and dialogue that enabled young people to offer new solutions while respecting the diversity of their needs and projects. As far as orientation is concerned, Jean-Michel Blanquer and I...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u77	Is he in on it, too?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u78	...have continued to strengthen the accompaniment of high school students. I am thinking, among other examples, of the two main teachers in the terminal classes, of the fifty-four hours of teaching dedicated to orientation in all high schools, of the weeks of orientation, of the open days, or of the Cordées of success which concern this year 200000 high school students. Progress remains to be made, but let us look at the reality: thanks to the reform of the high school and the deployment of Parcoursup, we are now able to support young people in the construction of their project and to make them an actor, to lay the foundations for a continuum between high school and higher education for all. [[Long exclamations on the banks of the GDR and FI groups]] Yes, this government has made the choice of the human, the transparency, the direction and the accompaniment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u79	Not that!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u80	Human, Journeyup?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u81	The human is us!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u82	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group. – New exclamations on the banks of the GDR Group]] Far from the demagogy of implying that it is enough to issue student cards and away from the fantasies that have never made a policy for youth, we have embarked on an unprecedented transformation of access to higher education, which, every year, refines and progresses, with only the success of all young people as a compass.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u83	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor in the general debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u84	The bill defended by my colleague Karine Lebon on behalf of the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left aims to alleviate the serious inequalities in access to higher education...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u85	The minister said there wasn't any!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u86	... created by Parcoursup. Through this text, we have tried to target some of these factors of inequality. We must also remember why we opposed the logic behind the creation of Parcoursup and how much we see on the ground its consequences for high school students and for students. I will rely on a sentence from the President of the Republic: "We will stop making everyone believe that university is the solution for everyone". These few words give us to see the meritocratic and unequal logic used to design and make it a selection system.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u87	That's not the point!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u88	They are also giving up and crowning efforts to dismantle the public service of higher education. It should be noted that while I refer to this dismantling in general, some universities are still better equipped than others. I am thinking, for example, of the University of Nanterre, which everyone knows for its status as a historical symbol of student struggles: 250 teaching positions are currently lacking to reach the national average and guarantee, simply, good learning conditions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u89	That's factual!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u90	The faculty is a crucial place for the formation of the critical mind. The least well-equipped universities are also generally a place for popular classes and foreign students. They are the ones most often delegitimized – perhaps you will blame me, Madam Minister, for linking here with the attacks on academics, often accused of pouring into "Islamo-leftism" or "Wokism", in your own words and those of the Minister of National Education, Youth and Sports. While these two expressions are the exclusive of the most extreme right and are without any scientific basis, you use them in the envi. The university is also attacked by chronic underfunding: some have been exsangued since they became autonomous. In this sense, you are conscientiously pursuing Ms. Pécresse's policy as early as 2007, while faculties are facing, at the same time, an explosion in the number of students and a stagnation in the number of full-time teachers. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group and on several benches of the GDR group]] Studying is a right, not a privilege – a right that has been violated by this government since the beginning of its mandate and the deployment of the Parcoursup selection platform. This tool is the result of a policy aimed at establishing, from kindergarten to faculty, a competitive system for the benefit of students judged most deserving – that is why I was referring to a meritocratic system. Rather than creating new places and new posts, which were necessary, the Government had chosen to deal with the shortage of places by organizing a general selection.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u91	Oh, there!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u92	To all those who have overcome social inequalities and have taken their baccalaureate with pride, it is now reported that the doors of the universities are closed to them or that the places that will be offered to them will not correspond to their choice. In my constituency, I see the catastrophic effects of this meritocratic logic and selection in contact with students who have been deprived of their place at university, high school or master's level – they are quite numerous. The department stated in the fall that only 239 bachelors enrolled on Parcoursup had not received a proposal. But in my department alone, I find 239 students in this situation quite easily – they may even be a little more numerous.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u93	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u94	It is true that this false record does not take into account the unaffected young people who have chosen, for lack of better – and because they are brave – to turn, for example, to civic service. This was not at all their first choice but, having not obtained an assignment, they resolved to do so on the assumption that they would not lose their year. However, this is not the function of the civic service, which no longer becomes a cache-sex to mask the damage caused by the courseup, or the unemployment of young people. In fact, at the beginning of the 2021 school year, nearly 22,000 bachelors did not find a place in higher education. In addition, thousands of bachelors have been reoriented to courses corresponding to their tenth vow or subvoy. The returns are alarming: high school students who are downgraded while their average is excellent, computer bugs, endless waiting lists or young people without training. Yet this government is unable to recognize that one of its measures was at the root of a problem. With great reinforcement of communication, we are therefore told that Parcoursup has been a "real success" which, far from having introduced the selection, has "promoted the democratization of higher education" or that all candidates have received proposals "as close as possible to their wishes". Let's be serious. This platform has created inequalities in treatment and your government will have to account for this. Journeyup leaves the student alone in the face of a series of operations that he or she does not control. In this system, the right to error or the right not to know what to do – because yes, that happens – does not exist. Parcoursup replaced the draw by the selection of candidates on arbitrary criteria. The use of opaque algorithms undermines the principle of equality. This is what section 1 of this bill seeks to counter. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group and on several benches of the GDR group]] I'm not saying APB was a good system – the draw didn't work. I'm saying, "Courseup" is worse.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u95	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u96	The establishment of Parcoursup has reinforced inequalities by basing the choice of students on school strategies that require resources.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u97	That's completely wrong!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u98	It must be said that the first ones affected by this measure are pupils from the working class because they do not benefit from the cultural capital or economic capital required to find a favourable outcome in the face of a negative response. This is an example of what historian Laurence De Cock calls the policy of school counter-democratization, which assigns to certain children, according to their profile – especially social – a trajectory and a class. In addition, this new platform has created a juicy market, which should alert you.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u99	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u100	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] If you do not believe me, you could at least see that, in the field of guidance aid, companies are getting richer. Parents, including in the popular classes, turn to these societies because they do not master the school education codes and are willing to pay 500 to 800 euros in the belief that this will help their child to orient themselves. Article 2 is intended to establish a real guidance service in so far as you have largely dismantled the one that currently exists. In line with the same logic of competition between students, we have learned by press that you are also going to set up a "Parcoursup" programme designed to solve the problem of students without a master's degree, which does not provide for a hierarchy of wishes or anonymisation of the institution of origin. You have therefore decided to continue along the same path, without taking into account the problems already created by Parcoursup. Such a project paves the way for social selection based on the institution but also for poor orientation of students. We will remain attentive to the implementation of this proposal and will oppose it quite firmly. Essentially, the removal of the Coursup must obviously be accompanied by the opening of additional places in order to accommodate all bachelor's and bachelor's degrees, which requires a greater number of teachers, sufficient premises, as well as the creation of new training courses and even new universities. In this way, we could reduce school and social inequalities in part. It is because of these inequalities that we are firmly opposed to Parcoursup. We speak today in the context of a parliamentary niche but we have not finished bothering you – the word is weak – about the Pathup and the selection criteria.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u101	With pleasure and delight!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u102	With great pleasure!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u103	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR, SOC and FI groups]] Let us at least hear that the two proposals we make in this text are the subject of consensus, not only among those we have heard, but also everywhere we go and in all the testimonies that date back to us today. You should be careful about it, if only to alleviate the problems – real, even if you deny them – caused by the setting up of Parcoursup.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u104	Mrs Anne Brugnera has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u105	The Republic Group shares the objective of reducing inequalities in education and access to higher education.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u106	I can tell.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u107	So they do exist well?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u108	This is even the main driving force behind the political commitment of many of us, members of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, and the purpose of our parliamentary work, relating to schooling from the age of three or to educational cities, to name but two examples. But we are convinced that it is not the pathup that causes these inequalities. On the contrary, we believe that this national procedure can help to reduce them through freedom of access to information, transparency of training expectations and equal treatment of candidates.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u109	So you're in favour of the bill?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u110	[["Ah! »on the benches of the GDR group]] Of course, Parcoursup can still be improved – it has already been since its creation – but the paths you propose will not alleviate these inequalities, on the contrary even.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u111	So there are many inequalities!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u112	Concerning the school of origin, the ministerial instructions specify that it is not a criterion for assessing wishes. However, the Court of Auditors has found that this is sometimes the case, which we condemn. By anonymizing the high school and replacing this criterion with the difference between the average grades of the students of the high school in continuous check and that obtained at the baccalaureate, the tendency to over-notify or sub-notify the school of origin would be neutralized, according to the Court. This proposal seems to us to be difficult to reconcile with the reform of the current bac and the separate timetables of the tests of the bac and the Coursup procedure. Conversely, not having the name of the high school would prevent, with equivalent applications, the promotion of social openness and positive discrimination.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u113	Unbelievable! You want to laugh?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u114	In the end, there's only bad faith left!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u115	Your proposal could prove counterproductive and prevent at this stage the identification of atypical talents and profiles. [[Exclaims on the SOC, FI and GDR panels]] On the other hand, let me remind you that we have never had a tool as transparent as Parcoursup...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u116	Yes! It's called the world before APB!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u117	... – By the way, my ears hurt when I hear that APB was a better tool. The information is accessible, rich and clear, the students themselves recognize it. Before making their wishes, they, like their parents and teachers, have the national and local expectations, the general criteria for the examination of wishes, the number of places and the rank of the last admitted for each training. Any candidate may know the reasons for the answer to each of his or her wishes.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u118	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u119	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u120	No! Go tell that to my niece!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u121	In addition, since this year, each training has published a report on Parcoursup detailing the criteria for selecting candidates. You would like it to be made public prior to the proceedings. This issue was decided by the Constitutional Council. In its decision of April 2020, it rejected an appeal by noting that the protection of the secrecy of the deliberations of the committees constituted a ground of general interest aimed at ensuring their independence and the authority of their decisions. Because Parcoursup is not an algorithm but a procedure at the end of which a human decision is taken within a commission of professionals. Moreover, our colleagues Sarles and Juanico, who evaluated Parcoursup, say no other thing: "...the recent advances that promote greater transparency... allow us to achieve a satisfactory balance. To go further and require the ex ante publication of a scale made up of the entire detailed and weighted criteria for the examination of applications could lead to a fully automated processing of the files, which must be absolutely avoided. Only human intervention allows us to consider the diversity of the profiles of the candidates and to achieve true fairness of treatment [...]"
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u122	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u123	Regarding the action plan that you want to include in the law, I would like to recall the efforts made in the area of opening places: 70000 places have been created since 2017 and, in this re-entry 2021, 34,000 were opened, of which 13000 in the first year, on Parcoursup, in the most requested trainings – health and paramedical trainings, notably in IFSI, STAPS – the sciences and techniques of physical and sporting activities – or even the sections of senior technician. In article 2, you offer personalized accompaniment for high school students. But it already exists, it was created in 2018. Thus, fifty-four hours are now devoted to the orientation at the senior level and two principal teachers allow high school students to receive accompaniment adapted to their needs. The application of this still very recent device is of course variable according to the high schools. Our group asked for a flash mission on orientation. It has just begun and will enable us to make an objective point on this subject. Finally, you propose that the specialties followed in high school be mentioned in the expected and in the admission statistics. During their hearing, the high school unions told us that they were opposed to it because they feared that it would close possibilities for high school students who could not or wanted to choose these specialties.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u124	That's what's going on anyway!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u125	This proposal could therefore be counterproductive. Parcoursup already offers – on the homepage, you can check it – advice to high school students on the choices of teachings, specialties or options at the first and final stages. But they are only advice, not obligations, to leave the whole field of possibilities open to our high school students. [[Ms. Jacqueline Dubois applauds]] For all these reasons, we will vote against the articles of this bill and the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u126	Mrs Constance Le Grip has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u127	The bill that we are considering today at the initiative of the Democratic and Republican Left aims to reduce the inequalities in access to higher education created by Parcoursup, which is, a priori, a laudable objective. As we know, every year, senior students face many difficulties during the Coursup procedure. We remember, for example, the dysfunctions recorded in May 2019 but also recurrent difficulties and inequalities in access, not only to higher education in general but also to clear information for our high school students. Every year, we denounce these difficulties, these bugs, these inequalities of access. And every year you answer to us, Madam Minister, that everything is best, even if, often in the field, high school students, parents of pupils or associations of parents of pupils are keenly calling on us on this subject, telling us of their anxieties. This year again, more than 90,000 students found themselves unassigned at the end of the first phase of Parcoursup in July. Of course, in the next few steps, some difficulties have gradually receded. But the process has been extraordinarily stressful, which is the least we can say. The Government reiterates that the Routeup guidance platform is a much more humane system than the late PDB, which I very much appreciate. However, the tightening of the timetable and the lack of transparency of the algorithms remain cause for concern for our students, we must recall. The procedure creates stress for both families and high school students. According to a survey carried out by Ipsos for the Ministry of Higher Education, Research and Innovation in September 2021, 82% of neo-bachelians considered the procedure to be stressful. They are indeed invited to express up to ten wishes, as well as sub-venes and sometimes wishes for learning. Since referral errors are always possible, we all know – useless to deny – that, at the end of the various stages, some find themselves in channels that they did not really want to integrate, which can lead to reorientations during the year or after a missed first year or even to abandonments before the end of the first year. It must also be recognised that the response times are long and that the queues that are created also create stress, anxiety, high uncertainty, which may lead some candidates to make a choice out of spite and to enrol in training that is not really suitable for them, or even not at all at all, only ensure that they enrol in higher education. On the other hand, more and more French high school students are moving to higher education institutions abroad, in Europe or elsewhere. Many of these institutions approach them by encouraging them not to wait for the next steps in the course of the Journeyup process, to get rid of the horrors of this journey and to join them. More and more students prefer to take care of their backs by turning to foreign schools, which is still unfortunate. The bill presented by our colleagues in the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left is based in particular on the observations and recommendations made by the Court of Auditors in its report of February 2020, which gives an initial assessment of access to higher education within the framework of the law on the guidance and success of students. We share most of these observations and many recommendations. We agree with our colleagues on the diagnosis of inequalities in access to higher education and information, but we are much more reserved on the arrangements they propose in their text, which are contrary to our idea of higher education. We are not in favour of the pure and simple anonymisation of the school of origin, without the creation of a statistical tool as advocated by the Court of Auditors: a measure of the difference between the marks obtained in the baccalaureate and those obtained in the continuous check. Nor do we consider it desirable to add to the criteria for determining reception capacity a 'pressure rate', which the Court of Auditors considered unreliable. Finally, the obligation advocated by the proposed law to welcome all candidates from vocational and technological education within the STS and the IUTs does not seem to us to be reasonable or realistic. We, in the Republican Group, have always stressed the importance of the information of students for their proper orientation. This was also a point raised by the flash mission that our colleagues Frédéric Reiss and Géraldine Bannier had carried out a few months ago. Because the bill contains little progress at this stage, we will abstain from voting, even if, once again, we share some of the observations of our colleagues.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u128	Mrs Geraldine Bannier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u129	The discussion of the proposal for a law of the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left is a welcome opportunity to consider a major problem: the inequality of social and territorial access of high school students to higher education. The text, with its two main thrusts – improving the transparency of Parcoursup and strengthening support for the guidance and information of students – aims at a very commendable and shared objective. It is true that the figures are severe: according to the 2017 report of the Observatory of Inequalities, if 30% of young people between the ages of 18 and 23 have working parents, this is the case of only 11% of students in higher education; The figure falls to 6% for pupils in the preparatory classes. We also know the disappointing figure of the promotion 2019-2020 at the National School of Administration where only one out of eighty-two pupils is son of a worker.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u130	Ah, that's pretty!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u131	But far beyond the only Parcoursup tool, which has nevertheless put an end to the improbable PDB system of drawing lots and allowed, in 2019, the acceptance of 21% more fellows in the main phase compared to the previous year, it is the global system that does not encourage social mix from an early age and that needs to be reviewed. Above all, there should be no need for the right institutions on the one hand and the wrong ones on the other. We had also voted on an amendment to improve the social mix within the institutions, in consultation with the local authorities, in the course of the examination of the law which reinforces respect for the principles of the Republic. It is a major lever, the first, to correct the inequalities of destiny, linked to social origin, that to work everywhere, in each institution, private as well as public, in each territory, to an objective of social mix, as long as local demography and the adaptation of transport allow. In the meantime, for the record, an excellent student from a less performing school compared to others, even if he or she is necessarily lagging behind, has all the potential to catch up very quickly, and must have the same chance to enter a listed school, even if he or she has not benefited from an early referral or from the reflection of experienced relatives in the school system. The second lever to actuate is thus that of the fight against self-censorship. We need to continue our efforts in this direction, particularly thanks to the success guidelines put in place between secondary and higher education institutions to promote equal opportunities. I would like to point out that the law on the programming of research, which we voted for almost a year ago, allows higher education trainers to take into account the participation of bachelors in this type of system in the examination of their applications through the "Parcoursup". The idea of an anonymisation of the school of origin seems interesting to us, since it would prevent excellent establishments from making their market first and foremost with equally rated establishments. Without being entirely unfavorable to this precise point, we express reservations about the criticisms made to the new platform to perpetuate social and territorial inequalities in the access of students to higher education. Parcoursup has improved transparency by publishing the algorithm as well as the expected training of higher education institutions. The platform also provides them with strict instructions on the obligation of non-discrimination and equal treatment. The data from Parcoursup 2021 remind us that almost 95% of bachelors, regardless of their place of origin, have access to higher education and that mobility is progressing in general, especially among scholarship students. Thus, despite the health crisis, nearly 22 per cent of bachelor's and nearly 18 per cent of scholarship students accepted a proposal for guidance outside their academy – figures constantly increasing. That goes in the right direction. There has also been a marked improvement in access to certain courses of excellence. The national veterinary schools and Sciences Po Paris have a student scholarship rate of 12% and 13% respectively, up sharply from previous years, with a wider openness to high school students from all regions – a welcome development. [[Mr. Brahim Hammouche applauds]] For example, for the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats, the Parcoursup tool is far from the cause of the problem of unequal opportunities in access to higher education. We will therefore vote against this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u132	Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u133	If the PDB portal was not satisfactory, the Parcoursup platform is not satisfactory either and it does not meet the promises of its specifications. That is what led you, the rapporteur, to present this bill aimed at reducing the inequalities caused by the platform. In their information report on the assessment of access to higher education, published in July 2020, our colleagues Régis Juanico and Nathalie Sarles pointed out that Parcoursup is only an assignment platform, the first objective of which is quantitative, since it is a question of giving access to the highest possible proportion of applicants to higher education, to the detriment of a more qualitative approach. As you said, social and territorial inequalities weigh heavily, throughout the course of school and at the time of access to higher education, including in non-selective courses. Workers' children account for 12 per cent of all students, while workers account for 21 per cent of the working population; 67 per cent of managerial children obtain a higher education diploma beyond the bachelor's degree, compared with only 16 per cent of workers' children. These numbers must call for a start. Higher education cannot be reserved solely for the children of the elites of our country. We therefore agree with your observation, Madam rapporteur: Parcoursup, if it is not at the root of inequalities, contributes to aggravating them. First of all, the guidance arrangements do not ensure equal access for all high school students to information to make an informed choice, as the National Consultative Commission on Human Rights (CNCDH) regrets. By maintaining a certain opacity on the selection criteria and algorithms, Parcoursup favours the children of the best informed families, very well integrated into the school system and knowing how to find the information. Assignment procedures are anxiogenic for 82% of high school students and perceived as arbitrary by 61% of them. The Court of Auditors points out that the school of origin is still a selection criterion for 20% of higher education institutions, which creates discrimination by place of life. She also pointed out that the lack of resources devoted to the guidance of pupils and the lack of respect for the number of hours devoted to them did not ensure the level of information necessary to guarantee equal access to higher education. In addition, the platform highlights other inequalities, those relating to the course of high school students. In the first phase of admission in the year 2021, 65% of secondary school students enrolled in a general course had received a response against 43% of secondary school students on technological courses and only 35% of secondary school students from vocational schools; They appreciate it! The reform of the baccalaureate, with the introduction of specialized teachings, made matters considerably complicated. It obliges students, more than ever, to make the right choices of specialties upstream, i.e. from the end of the second, if they want to integrate the training of their choice, without necessarily knowing the selection criteria. Again, the new system favours pupils from the best informed families, who go so far as to call on private bodies to receive support. Is it normal for some young people to pay to write cover letters? Beyond these structural shortcomings, the basic problem is that higher education is unable to accommodate all the more numerous candidates in the fields of their choice. As the president of the vows review commission (CEV) notes, "Parcoursup de la licensure de science politique de l'Université Paris 1 Panthéon-Sorbonne" was simply designed to make the eviction of a part of the candidates more acceptable, by ruling out the injustice of drawing lots, but by continuing to ignore the right of every future student to choose his or her orientation in conditions worthy of the ambition of our country. The Court of Auditors notes that not enough additional places have been created in the most requested fields, for example in STAPS where at least 100 posts should be released to respond to the emergency and more than 1000 to consider a real catch-up plan, or in health studies, already mentioned this morning. Too many voltage lines are ready to crack. The situation is of particular concern for vocational and technological graduates, who are moving towards exclusively selective fields, marked by a structural shortage of places. In eight years, the number of professional bachelors has increased from 120,000 to about 180,000, and only 9,000 additional places have been created in the first year of the BTS certificate. It is necessary to get out of the current logic and to abandon a device that consists only of managing waiting lists, based on an algorithm that almost alone decides the orientation of each and which undermines the sense of social recognition by giving thousands of young people the impression of not finding their right place in society. [[Applause on the SOC and GDR benches]] I repeat: this system, too opaque, has not solved anything on the bottom of the incredible difficulties facing our higher education policy. Like the reform of the baccalaureate which, too, is far from giving the promised results, Parcoursup shows its limits. We fully support the objectives of your bill, the rapporteur, and we will vote for a text that we believe will improve the Courseup platform and the student orientation and information pathways.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u134	Mrs Agnès Firmin Le Bodo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u135	Equal opportunities is one of the most important battles we can and do. This text therefore aims at laudable and fully shared objectives by all. Because inequalities are forged as early as childhood, and not just on Parcoursup, as the title of the bill suggests, it is on childhood that efforts must be concentrated in the first place. Empowering those who have less is the compass of our education policies. This is what we have undertaken since 2017: I am of course thinking of the duplication of the classes of CP and CE1 in the priority education networks (REP), gradually extended to the major sections; 330,000 pupils now benefit from this social justice measure. The law for a school of trust, which we adopted in 2019, tackles the root of the problem by lowering the age of compulsory education to 3 years and extending the obligation of training to 18 years. Fighting school inequalities also means making tomorrow's school more inclusive: that is why we have increased the number of accompanying students with disabilities by more than 10 per cent, and more than doubled the number of classes adapted to autistic children. In this context, the replacement of the PDB platform by Parcoursup has strengthened the information, mobility and personalisation of student paths. Above all, he finally put an end to the deleterious and unjust principle of drawing lots in the tensioned tracks. Improvements can still be made, but the solutions presented in this bill are in contrast to the realities of higher education recruitment. The proposed measures are both substantively satisfied and inoperative on form. Satisfied on the merits, as mobility is progressing in general and the instructions given by Parcoursup to training regarding non-discrimination and equal treatment obligations are strict and very clear. Despite the health crisis, in 2021, 22% of bachelors accepted a proposal outside their bachelor's academy – two more points than in 2020. Since the start of 2019, scholarship students have received a mobility aid of 500 euros. There is an increasing number of people accessing prestigious or remote establishments, although we agree that much more needs to be done in the area of mobility. The measures in the text are also inoperative because of their declaratory nature, because it is not enough to state the principle of a personalized accompaniment of high school students throughout the procedure in order to achieve this: concrete actions, real rights and not formal rights are needed, in the image of what our majority has done by providing since 2018 two main teachers for the terminal classes and 54 annual hours of accompaniment to the orientation at the high school. The same applies to the adaptation of the capacity to receive training, which, according to this bill, must be based on the tension in each field: this element is already taken into account by the rectors, in particular in the implementation of the Student Plan, which has created 70000 new places in higher education since 2017. Much has also been done for the right to information for high school students. Since 2019, recruitment statistics by institution and academie have been published on the website of the Ministry of Higher Education, and since 2020, Parcoursup has indicated to high school students the specialties recommended to integrate each training. As for the anonymisation of the upper secondary school of origin for applicants, this would make it impossible for any policy of national distribution and territorial mobility and any programme to fight for equal opportunities. For all these reasons, ladies and gentlemen, the Group of the European People's Party will vote against this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u136	Mr Yannick Favennec-Becot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u137	As the number of students continues to increase in our universities and other higher education institutions, the process of allowing young people to apply for studies of their choice is increasingly being lived as a long journey, sown with many challenges. It must be said that there are many obstacles: some courses lack places to accommodate all those who wish, others find themselves as relief choices for students with high grades, thus delaying the validation of the places granted. This complexity leads to an alarming uncertainty for many students who find themselves waiting for weeks or even months,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u138	It was worse before!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u139	... to get an answer and know how they will organize the beginning of their adult life. I would therefore like to thank you, the rapporteur, and our colleagues in the GDR Group, for putting this topic on the table on your parliamentary niche day, because the anxiety that can affect future students potentially affects every year still more than 700000 young people and, through them, 700000 families. It is true that what is striking in the distributions by Parcoursup is how often problems and delays affect pupils from vocational or technological fields – but also those with less good results than others in the same field. The recent report on the numbers of Journeyup in 2021 is evocative on this point. I will mention just a few of them: it was not until August 4th that 90% of the bachelors without mention received a response, whereas that proportion had been reached as early as June 17th for the "very good" mentions, and as of July 1st, 79% of the bachelors general had received a response, compared with only 48% of the graduates of the professional baccalaureate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u140	That's the problem.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u141	Thus, as the website lestudent.fr pointed out in a recent article, in order to get out of it well on Parcoursup, it is better to be a general student with good grades! Of course, it is important to encourage students to have the best possible results, which will then open as many doors as possible, but it is equally important to allow everyone to find their way and try to lead the life they want, regardless of their means and social environment. Although my opening remarks are quite critical, I think that it must be recognised, like the Court of Auditors, that Parcoursup has followed the post-bac admission system, which is highly criticized for the use of the drawing of lots, and that it has allowed, at least in the first instance, to restore order but also to give satisfactory results for many of the candidates. To get to the heart of the bill, it should be noted that the first measure you are proposing includes a recommendation from the Court of Auditors in the above-mentioned report, since it provides for the anonymisation of the school of origin of the pupil. However, you do not take back the second part of the Court's recommendation, which provides in return that the difference between the results of the tests at the bac and the score to the continuous check be taken into account. If I understand that this last provision would be more of the order of regulation, as you said in committee, it seems necessary to ensure a certain balance in the measure of anonymisation. I agree with your request for greater transparency in the criteria chosen and for the specialties favoured by the establishments – although we can also question the need to include these elements in the law. This point raises in any case the real inequity behind Parcoursup, that of unequal access to information according to the school and the quality of guidance. In this respect, I agree with the reflection made by my colleague Agnès Thill as part of his flash mission with Bertrand Bouyx on the specialties of the final class: the disappearance of the class group poses many problems, and the lack of psychologists in national education, key elements of the guidance of students, is also terribly felt. However, guidance is crucial to ensure greater equality of opportunity for each young person; It is also an essential point to accompany, from an early age, the diverse desires of our children, and thus to fight against certain prejudices that lead to directing girls and boys to specific areas. Finally, at a time when we are talking a lot about reindustrialization, we must not consider the technical sectors as sectors which should be less valued or less well treated, as they constitute a large number of skilled workers. Therefore, if the IDU and independent group subscribes to the ambitions of the text, it seems to him that the cards are mainly in the hands of the Ministry of National Education and that we are turning to the real problem of guidance in secondary education. That is why our group will abstain from this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u142	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u143	Our country suffers from a social reproduction of inequalities that makes the republican promise lie and challenges the ideal of meritocracy. We know that the fight against social and territorial inequalities begins with the fight against school inequalities. And all the surveys show our country's inability to reduce them. They begin at an early age and are confirmed, crystallized, when access to higher education. Since the health crisis, repeated confinements, the closure of schools and the establishment of distance education, these school disparities have widened further. In the combatant's path of access to higher education, the key lies primarily in access to information, but high school students are unequally armed to understand the documentation made available by a wide variety of actors. We want to stress once again the weaknesses of our guidance model, particularly in the direction of those who cannot count on the support of their entourage, many of them having to deal with themselves. In the context of the reform of the baccalaureate and the abolition of traditional courses, however, emphasis should be placed on the support of pupils; but this is not enough and remains very uneven among the schools, once again to the detriment of the most disadvantaged pupils. The Court of Auditors therefore considers that the establishment of a second senior professor in the senior class, the introduction of two "orientation weeks" and a fifty-four-hour annual accompaniment slot for each high school class remain insufficient and, moreover, unevenly applied. The proposed law therefore provides for greater access to information and better support for pupils: Freedom and territory can only subscribe to it. Even though Parcoursup cannot be pointed out as responsible for all the ills of our higher education, recognize the existence of biases, which are regularly denounced, in the system of guidance and selection of pupils, which distance certain publics from higher education. Equal opportunities can only be a reality if everyone is aware of the rules that apply. The prerequisite for the success of Parcoursup therefore lies in the implementation of a more transparent procedure. We all agree that the old postbac admission platform was very far from satisfactory, but recognize some shortcomings in the current platform. The high school students themselves consider this procedure very stressful and sometimes unfair. The good results of the Pathup at the quantitative level should not make us forget the possible improvements at the qualitative level, because many students find themselves in ways that do not correspond to them in any way. We've got to get rid of the fighter's pathup! For example, the Court of Auditors estimates that 20 % of higher education institutions rely on the school of origin for the ranking of candidates, whereas this should not be a selection criterion. We therefore approve the provisions aimed at making the school of origin anonymous, and communicating on the criteria, on the algorithms as well as on the specialties required to integrate the training. Finally, and I will conclude on this point because it is probably the most important, the cause of this discriminatory and opaque selection process, which is the source of these inequalities, is largely due to inadequate reception capacity in certain fields. As we said during the budget review: the funding of places for new students does not cover the increase in staff. The Court of Auditors warns about the increase in the pressure rate of selective and non-selective sectors – this is particularly the case in professional sectors, even though the quinquennium has been an opportunity to encourage professional qualifications. We therefore agree with the provisions of the draft law on training in tension, although on these issues the issue is primarily a matter of financial capacity to meet the needs. Our concern is all the greater as the Minister of Higher Education envisages a reform of the master's selection along the same lines as Parcoursup. Be careful not to reproduce the same deficiencies while, each year, many students, after having validated their license, are forced to stop their studies. [[Mr. Moetai Brother applauds]] Minister, ladies and gentlemen, our room for manoeuvre to improve guidance procedures and to combat school inequalities remains important. This bill, which the Libertés et territoires group supports, does not claim to answer it entirely, but raises interesting avenues to solve some of the pitfalls of Parcoursup.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u144	Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u145	This is probably the last opportunity, at the end of this parliamentary term, to discuss in this House one of the most controversial reforms of this government: Parcoursup. In the preamble, I would therefore like to thank our GDR comrades for this bill, whose aspirations we broadly share. But what is the name of Parcoursup? Formally, that of a digital platform set up in September 2018 and allowing high school students to make wishes for their admission to higher education. More prosaically, and to use the term of the explanatory memorandum here, it is a true "machine" to sort, select and encourage competition between schools and students.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u146	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u147	It is under a false pretext that this platform was decided: that of energizing the channels. This majority then made the deliberate choice to endorse the selection in our universities. The argument, repeated ad nauseam, was then to no longer have to draw the students by lot – a method that is certainly unfair – but also to better help the success of all the students by a better orientation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u148	Well, yes.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u149	But has Parcoursup fulfilled its objectives?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u150	Well, yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u151	Let me first take stock of it. I will first dismiss the gross propaganda of the ministry, which claimed in September to account for only 239 students without a solution, retaining only those who, without assignment, continued their appeal to the CAES, the commissions of access to higher education. Let us be serious: in 2019, of the 570,000 bachelors who made a wish on the platform, 92.5% of them had received a proposal for admission. It is therefore more than 42,000 high school students who will have been left on the tile, half receiving negative answers, the other having abandoned. And there were more than 148,000 candidates in reorientation, 17% of whom were without a proposal. Would it take time for our young people to learn about this new platform? Unfortunately, the figures are not much better for 2020: to take only the example of Paris 8, within so-called non-selective channels, such as the computer license, 1991 wishes were confirmed for only 70 places. A true path of the cross is the case of saying: many called but few chosen! And the latest re-entry confirms this trend. In addition, 82% of high school students find the platform stressful and 61% consider it unfair. It is therefore not a great success, from any point of view. Of course, this bill does not purport to solve all the problems that disaggregate higher education, but, as the title indicates, it intends, modestly but seriously, to mitigate its harmful effects. It does so first of all by ensuring a minimum transparency of the procedure with the obligation to communicate criteria and algorithms, so as not to let the only "knowing" preempt curricula which are so many sesame; then, by anonymizing the school of origin of the bachelors to avoid that the geographical assignment is synonymous with social assignment; taking into account also the level of pressure exerted on each training; Finally, by strengthening the assistance for the guidance of pupils and their access to information: indeed, knowledge is power. But unfortunately, your government has removed the public service from guidance, and the fifty-four hours spent annually on guidance in high school are largely insufficient at the senior level. We cannot avoid the question of the resources allocated to higher education and research: with 20% more students over the period 2008-2018 and an increase of just 10%, to do better with less, is to solve the quadrature of the circle. We must also talk about the lack of supervision, alongside the opening of places. This significant increase in the budget, you still refuse to do so, as we are about to vote on the last finance bill. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group and on several benches of the GDR group]] If this bill presents itself as a first step, which is why we will vote for it, we will not be able to save money from completely abrogating Parcoursup and investing heavily in the higher education system, as in the whole of the education system, in order to really end this social reproduction that we know in our schools, from kindergarten to universities.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u152	The general discussion is closed. The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u153	[[Applause on several benches of the GDR and FI groups]] [[New applause on several benches of the GDR and FI groups]] I would like to provide some answers. The minister accused me of being inconsistent. I assure you, the absence of a spine is not on my side. What I said at the Republican dinner, and I say again, is that no one regrets APB. On this we agree, and I have also said so in committee. Our bill does not mean to delete Parcoursup. Not knowing if you've read it, so I'll give you the report, it's a little Christmas present.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u154	Oh, there!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u155	Yes, the rapporteur is right! A little respect!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u156	As far as transparency is concerned, the public rapporteur of the Council of State, in his conclusions, cited on page 9 of the report, says no other thing: "It may be thought that this is not satisfactory for those concerned, that there is even a skilful swindling process here. And this, combined with the ex post nature of the information provided, probably requires a reflection and intervention by the legislator so that the right of access to the elements which may base it, in practice the criteria for the classification of applications, can be exercised prior to the administrative decision taken on the application and not subsequent to it. Like the current arrangements, this obligation of prior transparency could only benefit candidates, with the exception of third parties. But it is up to the legislator to decide on all these points. » You were talking about the number of places created. The problem is that this number is not in line with the voltage lines, and I am sceptical about the effectiveness of any creation of places in non-voltage lines. Ms. Brugnera asked me again about the criteria for the current year. I have given an answer in committee but, since pedagogy is a matter of repetition,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u157	She's a talking teacher!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u158	... I quote exactly what I said: "This does not mean, however, that we wish to revert to the principle of the secrecy of the jury's deliberations: the obligation of ex ante communication of the selection procedures, in particular by means of automated processing, is not intended to freeze the deliberations of the members of the VECs, who will always be able to make rankings of the applications "by hand", based, among other things, on elements of the file which cannot be summarized by an encrypted indicator, such as the letters of motivation. Thus, the proposed scheme proposes to maintain the possibility for any candidate to request the communication of the pedagogical reasons for the decision taken on his application after receipt of the application. This retention is introduced by way of amendment. » With regard to the teaching of specialties, our amendments are intended to replace the word "essential" with the word "advisors". You have already announced that you want to vote against these amendments. This is a real lack of consistency since you denounce in our text the word "essential" and propose to replace it with "advisors". But you still decide to vote against our amendments to that end! [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] Listening to you, I see that we have a dialogue of the deaf. I remain sceptical about the good faith of the Members of the La République Group on the move. I say again, high school students, students, parents, who have expressed reservations about the Pathup platform, look at us, and I think we owe them answers.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u159	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u160	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u161	Madam rapporteur, in the explanatory memorandum to the bill it is well written: "Parcoursup must be deleted. That's what I referred to.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u162	No, it's not in the text: the explanatory statement and the very text of the bill are two different things. Even without the baccalaureate, we can understand it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u163	[[Protests on a few benches of the GDR group]] With regard to the 82% number of stressful procedures for Parcoursup, it seems to me quite normal, the year when you spend your bachelor's degree – at least that's the memory I have of it – being slightly stressed. Yes, 82% find the procedure stressful; Why not mention the 74% who find that the platform is clear, the 73% who believe it has facilitated their access to higher education, the 66% who consider it has facilitated their orientation, the 88% who say it has helped them find all the trainings on a single site, the 88% who say they have enjoyed the freedom of choice, or the 84% who find that the indications on the platform are clear?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u164	And what do we do with all the others?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u165	When citing statistics, it is important to cite the entire survey which mentions it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u166	It's not statistics, it's surveys!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u167	The criteria shall be communicated. We have heard a lot of the opposite, so I really invite you to go and see: the general criteria are set and the specific criteria deduced from the general criteria are specified for each training. Why doesn't it make much sense to set the criteria in advance? Because, as you know, if you have already participated in an admission board – and I'm sure it has happened to some of you – it is very complicated, before you know the files, to set the criteria that will ultimately allow them to be separated. The general criteria are obviously important. We recall that discrimination is prohibited.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u168	Like Facial Controls, which are also forbidden!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u169	It is also important that I recall, if you do not wish to do so, the absolute confidence I have in the teams of teachers-researchers who take charge of these files and appropriate them to deal with them as I have just indicated.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u170	Be careful, there may be Islamist-leftists among them!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u171	You do not want to re-introduce the draw but want to delete Parcoursup. In reality, therefore, you intend to return to the time of the queues, where the young person went to a school at four o'clock in the morning, hoping that, by the time he arrived in front of the registration desk, there would still be places in that establishment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u172	You haven't read the bill, it's impressive!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u173	We have put forward specific proposals!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u174	Being a minister of higher education and research and not being able to listen is amazing!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u175	I now call the articles of the bill in the text originally before the House, since the committee has not adopted any text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u176	Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u177	At a time when we are talking about Parcoursup, about selection, about the lack of places and resources, I cannot remain silent about the situation at the Paris-Nanterre University, where students without a university are victims of your selection policy, which is going to worsen the setting up of a Courseup for Masters, and where, at the same time, the Presidency is subject to your budgetary austerity. Your government, which loves so much the "at the same time", should be able to respond both to the legitimate demands of the students – for studying is not a privilege but a right – and to the exhaustion of the teaching teams that allegedly have all your confidence, but that you nevertheless lead in your spiral of "doing more and more with less". Paris-Nanterre University suffers from one of the lowest rates of supervision, according to its president. My colleagues Elsa Faucillon, Régis Juanico and I have asked you in writing about this. In view of the growing tension, I hope that you will commit yourself to receiving us as soon as possible. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group and on several benches of the GDR group]] These are the effects of Parcoursup and your fiscal policy.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u178	Mrs Lamia El Aaraje has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u179	I would like to respond to the minister's speech, because I feel that we do not live in the same world. You are right, minister, the statistics must be exhaustive and must be looked at in their entirety. I will therefore oppose two other figures to the logorrhea that you sent us to the figure: 82% of high school students, according to a survey conducted by your own ministry – it seems to me that it is still your ministry –, consider the platform stressful, and 61% believe that it is not fair and does not treat all candidates in the same way. Perhaps you will find more substantiation of the opinion of the National Advisory Commission on Human Rights (CNCDH), which seems to me to be an organization expressing rather clear and impartial opinions: "Because of their opacity," she writes, "the procedures for assigning to the process of use of Parcoursup are anxiogenic and are perceived as arbitrary. The lack of transparency surrounding these classification rules undermines the efficiency and fairness of the procedure [...] "The Court of Auditors, an impartial body – at least I believe it is – asserts that "despite a significant number of new places created, the pressure rate of selective and non-selective channels has increased between 2018 and 2019". It's not just us who say it. As Members of Parliament, we have the opportunity to meet with a large number of citizens, who tell us about questions, misunderstanding, stress, so hear from the Minister of Higher Education and Research that it is not serious to have a little stress at the end of the year because it is the year of the bachelor's degree, I find it particularly shocking and insulting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u180	That's not what I said!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u181	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR group. – Mr. Ugo Bernalicis also applauds]] When I see the treatment you give our young people, I'm terrified and I hope they will remember it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u182	Mrs Anne Brugnera has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u183	I would like to address the students' stress, first of all reminding them of what APB was, because obviously some have forgotten it, and even what was before this portal. The stress of the students is not today.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u184	We didn't say otherwise!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u185	The stress of the bachelors is old, it depends first on the test of the baccalaureate and, then, on the procedure of obtaining the training of their choice. It is possible to access 19500 training courses by means of a single tool and a single calendar, which is a very important source of simplification. It gives all the necessary information. The extent of this information may frighten some young people, but they are accompanied by their teachers. Not all young people, of course, get what they wanted the most. I would remind you, however, that, in Parcoursup, vows are not hierarchical, which is a strong demand for high school students, who want to be able to mature their project and decide on it after having graduated at the last moment. Of course, it remains the subject of stress, which is generated by having choices to make – we understand that it is stressful – and above all by waiting for answers, which is linked to the functioning of waiting lists. Such stress is inherent in all the choices you have to make in your life; High school students learn that at that time. However, it could be diminished by the further improvement of the timetable, and in particular the timetable for waiting lists – I would also like to stress how much this has already been improved since the creation of Parcoursup. There is also a need to encourage kind communication on the right to error, the right to reorientation and the bridges that exist between the formations, something that is not discussed enough. Therefore, there should be more communication with young people and, of course, with their parents, who are equally stressed and who certainly add stress to their children.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u186	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u187	Madam Minister, before we begin consideration of the amendments to Article 1, I wanted to give you a reaction. Earlier, you mentioned the Seine-Saint-Denis, a territory that you know I care about.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u188	Me too!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u189	The coincidence of the calendar makes me meet last night parents of students and high school students from Paul Éluard High School in Saint-Denis, at their invitation. They explained to me the lamentable way in which their schooling takes place – unreplaced teachers, social workers, absent nurses, etc. Beyond that, they also told me of their concerns about what they experienced with the reform of the baccalaureate and with Parcoursup, because both are related. And by linking the two, you have aggravated discrimination against high schools and young people in working-class neighbourhoods. The result is that the baccalaureate – which was a national examination with, at every corner of France, from the smallest small village to the popular district of a large city through the small towns, the same examination for everyone – is reduced to a series of potentially different examinations from one high school to another, so potentially perceived as having a different value here or there. Parcoursup has strengthened the selection. With Parcoursup, you say, the number of students from Seine-Saint-Denis who go to Paris universities has increased by 5%. These words shock me.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u190	I didn't say that!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u191	Yes, that's what you said!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u192	That's shocking!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u193	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR, SOC and FI groups]] You may regret it, but you said so. It is shocking and contemptuous for the young people of the Seine-Saint-Denis. There is no question of allowing a few to leave their Indian reserve to study in Parisian universities. I am a Member of Parliament for the Seine-Saint-Denis, where two major universities – Paris 8 and Paris 13 are located. The question is: Did it allow more children from the Seine-Saint-Denis to access higher education? The answer is no!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u194	What about the scholarship quotas?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u195	By strengthening the selection, Parcoursup has put more children from popular neighbourhoods on the bench than previous devices did!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u196	What you're saying is not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u197	The manipulation of numbers!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u198	We come to the amendments. The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u199	This is a new wording of paragraph 3, on anonymization, without prejudice to mechanisms for promoting equal opportunities. We propose a more operational drafting of the system of anonymization of the school of origin in the Pathup platform, in order to avoid this criterion being used for discriminatory purposes and for the reproduction of social inequalities, and to contribute to the movement of harmonization of rating practices between the various institutions. [[Applause on several benches of the GDR group]] The amendment also makes it clear that this anonymisation would not call into question the mechanisms to promote equal opportunities, a principle to which we are very attached – as many of us would imagine. On behalf of high school students and parents, I encourage you to be open.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u200	Excellent proposal!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u201	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u202	[[Smile]] What enthusiasm on all benches!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u203	As you have understood, the Government does not wish the text to be adopted.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u204	Indeed, we understood it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u205	We're offering to improve it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u206	As you said yourself, the rapporteur: in reality, this text is a frontal attack on the policy that the majority has been pursuing since 2017 in terms of guidance and access to higher education. It is very important to remember that everything that has been done – setting up quotas for fellows and for professional and technological baccalaureates to follow a BTS or enter an IUT – aims to ensure that every young person, wherever he or she is in the territory, is more likely to have access to his or her choices.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u207	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u208	I'm not saying it's better or it's worse. Rather than separating the academies of Paris, Versailles and Créteil, treating the whole of Île-de-France as a single academy allowed more young people to go to study in the institution they had chosen.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u209	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u210	For me, it's absolutely essential. Those who wanted...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u211	You're lying!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u212	That's the reality!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u213	That is the reality, indeed, the figures show it. More young people from Seine-Saint-Denis – no less – have entered higher education since the platform was set up,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u214	No, that's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u215	You're lying!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u216	...and they're accompanied. All the figures are available, and they are not those of the minister: they come from the services that manage Parcoursup, rectorates...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u217	Which ones are independent and not under your control, of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u218	These are the figures of secondary school teachers, who spend a large part of their summer with the teachers of the superior to make proposals to all young people. Once again, I would like to say that the commissions for access to higher education, which bring together guidance counsellors, secondary and higher education teachers, rectors and psychologists from national education, are doing exceptional work with young people. By calling them and asking them to better define their project, they enable them to find training that corresponds to their choice. This is absolutely essential. If there is one thing I hope we will be able to join, it is the importance of the accompanying work of all secondary and higher education teachers to promote access to higher education. It must really be understood that in the first year of the bachelor's degree, 10% of students – almost 20,000 – have adapted courses to enable them to succeed, additional work led by tutors, and accompaniment by tutors. This allows us to increase the number of first-year students who spend their second year. How can we be satisfied collectively that, in 2017, less than 40% of first-year students were in second-year education? This is the meaning of the investment of more than €1 billion that the Government has made in the undergraduate degree to support students towards success. For me, democratizing...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u219	It's not select!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u220	...it's not giving young people a student card by letting them manage. It is to empower institutions to do what we have put in place, that is to say to offer personalized support. [[Protests on a few benches of the GDR group]] There is still a minimum of logic: I don't think a university president or a rector is asking for job creation in fields where there is no demand. All the places created are, I can assure you, in voltage channels. You can imagine that those in charge of the institutions do not make a farfetched request, they formulate it where there is additional pressure. Explain to me: what would be the logic of adding $1 billion in funding to universities if our goal was to restrict access to higher education?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u221	Oh!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u222	Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u223	An abundance of 1 billion is largely insufficient in view of the increase in the number of students. [[Mr. Ugo Bernalicis applauds]] I do indeed welcome the involvement of secondary school teachers, or even the superior, to accompany the students. They do it a lot, and they do it in addition to their work. This is what is called the "more and more", with always less resources. That is what we regret. They do it instead of the Information and Guidance Centres (IOCs), guidance counsellors that you have completely liquidated – it's a whole system that you have liquidated. These people, whose job it was, there's no more. I do not see how a math teacher, even a principal, could know all the fields and the specificities that must be followed in order to enter a particular field. We've even seen private coaches appear! All of a sudden, we saw commercials promoting private coaches to find out how to find out what to do in the parcoursup and specialties meandering. That's the reality. And I salute the work of the teachers.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u224	Me too!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u225	[[Applause on the banks of the FI Group. – Ms Marie-GeorgeBuffetapplauditedalso]] In the meantime, you still haven't answered me about Nanterre; I repeat, I also welcome the work of the teachers you are putting pressure on.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u226	Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u227	Minister, I don't think you're pretending to have the truth on your own.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u228	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u229	Demonstration was made, and explanation was given, in universities, by student associations and university presidents, which Parcoursup deserved at least some corrections, corrections, adaptations and improvements. In this piece of legislation, we offer you improvements to Parcoursup. Until proven otherwise, the anonymity regarding the original high school does not seem to endanger the functioning of Parcoursup, but you refuse it...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u230	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u231	... on the pretext – at least, you make it clear, it has the advantage of being clear – that you are against the bill. However, you might consider that the text contains devices from the uphills – you may even have been told about them. We suggest that you recognize them and implement them immediately by adopting them. What is not right for you, you will reject it – you have a majority for it; But, rather than rejecting everything as a whole, considering that the text is completely inadequate, there may be measures that deserve to be adopted. We're not the ones who demonstrate, it's the ground. Maybe it's not all of France. Our group comprises only about 15 Members; we do not claim to represent the entire French territory,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u232	Neither do we!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u233	... but we represent a political formation which is present throughout France and which is in contact with the various actors. Again recently, with the Mouvement jeunes communistes de France, we took stock and found that the bill corresponds exactly to the expectations of students, professors and university presidents for an improvement of the system. We tell you that Parcoursup is not the ideal device to enter university, and it is even less so for master's and other courses. Grab the ball at the leap, at least to improve it, as we invite you – and if you don't want to improve it, in order to remove it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u234	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u235	With regard to anonymization, I would point out that one in five schools would use the criterion of the school of origin. It's still something that has to challenge us. We too welcome the work of professionals. The problem is, they're not always trained. A psychologist of national education for 1500 students: we can still agree that we are not in personalized accompaniment! [[Applause on several benches of the GDR and FI groups. – Mrs Lamia El Aaraje also applauds]] Minister, you have asked how to reconcile anonymization with the ropes of success. It is precisely the purpose of the amendment to take into account the processes of positive discrimination; It is therefore sufficient to adopt it. I want to share with you, ladies and gentlemen, the words of the minister – because I have heard them correctly – who justified her refusal by saying that we should not seek to "do the buzz". I don't know if that was the case; We have sought to improve the pathup but, obviously, this is not the Government's objective.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u236	Mrs Anne-Christine Lang has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u237	First of all, I would like to welcome the many improvements that have been made to Parcoursup since its creation. You recalled, Madam Minister, the progress made in accompanying bachelors in their choice of orientation is real, and access to certain highly selective channels has been democratised.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u238	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u239	However, since the opening of the platform, and at each of the milestones achieved since then, voices have opposed the mention of the original high school in the procedure, on the grounds that the risk of discrimination against high school students from disadvantaged schools or in rural areas was high, even though these students did not choose their sector high school.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u240	That, on the other hand, is right.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u241	[[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] If the mention of the original high school is maintained, how can one seriously consider that a student coming from a disadvantaged high school has the same chance as the one coming from a downtown high school that enjoys an excellent reputation? The weighting of the school of origin on the basis of more or less random criteria, such as reputation, poses a real problem of social equity. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] Mentioning the original high school of these students is like the address on the CV: it amounts to assigning them to residence. Such discrimination cannot be approved. We are told about the procedures of social openness, in particular the ropes of success. Perhaps they can be integrated into the procedure: technically, the question seems to me to be soluble. As far as the heterogeneity of grades between the different institutions is concerned, this is probably a real question, but an objectivation seems possible: a commission could seize this question to examine the differences in ratings. Again, I believe this issue is soluble. [[Applause on the SOC and GDR benches]] In any event, I will vote for this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u242	I call Mrs Sabine Rubin to support Amendment No. 10.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u243	We withdraw the amendment, since Amendment No 1 had a similar purpose.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u244	I call Mrs Sabine Rubin to support Amendment No. 11.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u245	We would like the applicant's address not to be accessible under the national pre-registration procedure: institutions examining applications could only have access to the academy in which the applicant resides. The aim is to avoid discrimination on the basis of place of residence and to ensure equal treatment among all applicants.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u246	I already do!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u247	[[Mr. Ugo Bernalicis and Ms. Elsa Faucillon applaud]] The Defender of Rights recalled that "Article 2 of the Act of 27 May 2008... provides that any direct or indirect discrimination based on the stated ground of residence is prohibited in the area of education". The text is very clear: "The Defender of Rights considers in the first analysis... that this anonymization must cover the place of residence. »
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u248	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u249	The committee delivered an unfavourable opinion. Personally, I am in favour of the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u250	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u251	The amendment was satisfied: the application files did not mention the name, the first name, the address of the domicile, or the age of the candidate – except in special cases, such as boarding schools.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u252	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u253	I have doubts about what the minister tells us.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u254	Oh!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u255	Earlier, she set out in the rostrum a number of so-called truths; Thus, students enrolled on the Courseup would be fully aware of the expectations of the various courses, and when they are not taken, they would have a feedback on the reasons for this decision.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u256	Yes, it is!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u257	You say "oh yes"... I sent small messages to my niece, who just had her baccalaureate and therefore passed in 2021 in the mill of Parcoursup: "But at last, you told me that you had not had any information about the expected ones! »
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u258	Yes, I do!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u259	"Yes," she said to me, "I have two or three informations about the expected ones, but we are not told what they correspond to, or how much they will weigh in the decision! I have been excluded from a number of fields because I did not meet expectations, what we do not see and what is happening in the establishment. And there are even formations where her file has remained "waiting": so it has never been refused, and has not had a return... As the days pass, the summer progresses, people try to organize themselves for the re-entry in September. We have to stay... They end up, in spite, taking what they have under their hand. That's how your system works! On the other hand, students from the best curricula, from the best institutions, leave themselves the choice to wait as long as possible, and to hesitate between different options available to them. You've cut the time, that's right, to prevent the best from completely blocking the system. But they still shift the choice of all the others in time. You're telling us there's no access to the address. Look, as a matter of principle, I don't believe you, I don't believe you anymore. When I see for myself how it works, I feel like I live in a world radically different from yours. I add that my niece did not know all the expected, poor... But in order to be able to check the right boxes, it would in any case have been necessary for her to return to the past to choose the right options in second place, the right options in first place, and the right establishment, to have the right ones expected in July.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u260	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u261	[[Applause on a few benches of the GDR group. – Mrs Caroline Fiat also applauds]] That's great delusion! That's what your system does and that's why it needs to be changed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u262	Thank you.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u263	And don't say my niece lied!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u264	I wouldn't allow myself... You allow yourself to say that I'm lying, but I wouldn't allow it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u265	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u266	It provides for the publication of the selection criteria and procedures for the current year, and not for year n-1, as is currently the case. This does not freeze the criteria, I repeat.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u267	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u268	Unfavorable. The expectations and criteria that will be used for the opening year are posted as early as December.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u269	The rapporteur's amendment No 3 is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u270	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 4.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u271	The aim is to clarify the new transparency obligations that the bill aims to create. The information must be provided prior to the commencement of the national pre-registration procedure; On the other hand, they must be published for the benefit of all, and not only of the candidates, in order to enable all students, especially those in second place, to make informed choices of guidance.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u272	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u273	Unfavorable. Access to the Parcoursup platform, which provides access to expectations and criteria, is absolutely public. It is therefore open to everyone.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u274	On Article 1, I am seized by the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland of a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 5.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u275	It is again a matter of clarifying the new transparency obligations. The readability and accessibility of information must be guaranteed, so that everyone can exploit it. The publication of this information is not intended to freeze the deliberations of the juries, which may always carry out manual rankings of applications on the basis of elements which cannot be summarized of the figures, such as letters of motivation or extracurricular commitments. To this extent, we also preserve the right of candidates to claim the pedagogical reasons for their decision, once the decision has been addressed to them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u276	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u277	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u278	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u279	Since then, we have understood that Parcoursup works perfectly. But it works out of spite! The most glaring example of this is that of nursing training institutes: there is a consensus among their directors and directors to call for a return to previous admission requirements, i.e., an entry competition. Today, they welcome students who want to do medicine, but find themselves in this field they have not chosen – because no, when you want to be a doctor, you don't want to be a nurse. They will not go to the end of their training or, worse, they will finish it but will never practice the profession of nurse. But they take the place of people who really wanted to... You keep saying we're short of caregivers and nurses. These testimonies should lead you to question yourself: this is a field that we need, but that you fill students who have not chosen it, and who will not do it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u280	Yes, I do! They asked for this line!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u281	Instead of contradicting me, go meet the IFSI directors!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u282	The rapporteur's amendment No 6 is precise.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u283	I put Article 1 to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u284	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 58 Number of votes cast 57 Absolute majority 29 For adoption 20 Against 37
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u285	Mrs Anne Brugnera has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u286	Article 2 concerns the personalized accompaniment of high school students for their orientation, which is a very important issue. Nevertheless, we will not vote on this article. It is not necessary to include such a provision in the law since it is already included in the law on the guidance and success of students, even if it is necessary to verify that this support is effective. That is why the group La République en marche has requested a flash mission, which has just begun its work, on the orientation in the high school. His conclusions will be very enlightening for all of us.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u287	I call Mrs Sabine Rubin to support Amendment No. 12.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u288	By this appeal amendment, we propose the restoration of a large public service of guidance. As I said, your government has removed the entire IOC hosting network, a network of more than 478 hosting locations that were led by national education psychologists specializing in orientation, knowledge of training and trades. You have destroyed all this, preferring to replace it with mentoring or tutoring through the "one young, one mentor" scheme that has benefited from 27 million euros in the 2022 finance bill. All this shows a real contempt for psychologists in national education. You prefer adults to expose their life experiences, as advocated by the President of the Republic, who probably thinks to be an example. The disappearance of the public guidance service has led to the development of a private market. Thus, for 445 euros – at the bottom of the line – a coach offers the students an individualised accompaniment which, according to this lucrative company, leads to 90% of the candidates getting on average twelve subvous. Parents are forced to pay coaches so that their children can register!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u289	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u290	Through these hijacked paths, you make the school a real lucrative market, which exacerbates inequalities.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u291	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u292	This amendment seems to me to be of common sense in view of the unanimous lack of a public guidance service, since the current system does not have the means to accompany each student personally. In view of the hearings, we can assume the results of the flash mission that has just been created. Like you, we regret the development of private companies specializing in guidance and coaching, as it increases inequalities between students. I am therefore personally in favour of your amendment. However, the committee delivered an unfavourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u293	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u294	Mrs Rubin, your request is satisfied; I will therefore ask you to withdraw this amendment, otherwise I will issue an unfavorable opinion. The public guidance service was strengthened by the provisions of the Act of 5 September 2018. The regions have been involved and complement the State's work on information on trades and direct training for pupils, students and apprentices. This service is now deployed throughout life to ensure that everyone has free, complete and objective information on the professions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u295	Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u296	[[Mr. Ugo Bernalicis applauds]] Minister, do you know how many psychologists in national education have had to desert the IOC that have been closed? With the students, it's closeness that counts. The work does not have to be done in a large centre run by the region. In any case, the IOC was already working with the region. Students need physical places, staff in schools. Can you tell us how many IOCs and psychologist positions have been struck off the map?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u297	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u298	I confirm what Sabine Rubin said about the dismantling of the IOC. Madam Minister, could you answer the question I asked you? How do you explain that at the time you set up Parcoursup, there is an unprecedented development of boxes drawing their income from the guidance of high school students, a performance that they charge incredibly dearly? The upper classes are not the only ones to use these boxes. There is so much anxiety among the popular classes, who fear that school failure is synonymous with social death, that families are willing to pay these sums of 500 or 800 euros, bleeding to the four veins to have access to this information. They correspond to school codes which are the resources of those who control them because of their social class of origin or because of a social rise. On the other hand, the popular classes do not control them. Madam Minister, you know these figures and you know very well that we are one of the countries where social inequalities and educational inequalities are most strongly correlated; We are even the country of Europe where this correlation is the strongest. Whether or not to master school codes greatly determines the course and orientation. You list the existing devices, but what do we see on the ground? I recently went to a senior class: the students are anxious; For their guidance, they turn to their principal teacher, who is already in difficulty to do everything he has to do. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group and on some benches of the FI group]] It is the very foundation of the orientation through the Pathup that is distorted: the orientation should consist of examining what students like, the resources they have and their potential, while at present it consists of trying to make a place in the maze that is the selection.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u299	Mrs Lamia El Aaraje has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u300	Ladies and gentlemen, when I hear you, I do not have the impression that we live in the same world. Let us spare the suspense of this flash mission: it will tell you that social inequalities are stark,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u301	Intent trial!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u302	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] ...what can be easily shown with figures and concrete data: 12% of workers' children have access to higher education; 76 per cent of children in management receive a higher education diploma. It's called social reproduction. It's called social assignment. This is called the territorial assignment. This means that depending on the place of birth, the family, the origin of the parents and the grandparents, one is conditioned to remain in the social class and in the territory where one was born.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u303	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u304	[[Protests on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] This assignment is not acceptable. This is not our vision of what republican equality should be, in accordance with the motto of our Republic: Freedom, equality, fraternity. You can repeat your convictions to us in the envi; But they don't become true. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and SOC groups]] We will therefore support this amendment, because we believe that public service is the heritage of those who do not. We believe that public service must accompany all our children to enable them to go as far as possible regardless of their starting conditions in life.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u305	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 7.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u306	It is intended to specify that personalized support for the preparation of the Coursup procedure must be exercised from the second class, taking into account the importance of the choice of specialties and options at the end of this school year. It can be seen that students sometimes choose specialties that close their doors to the training they want to integrate later.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u307	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u308	Since the amendment is satisfied, I would ask you to withdraw it. In fact, guidance support has been set up from the fourth class to the final level for all training routes.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u309	Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u310	The issue of guidance is essential. In high school, teachers have been less and less inclined to accept the position of principal teacher since they were in charge of guidance, as they do not necessarily have the skills and their duties are heavy given the number of tasks they have to perform. As Ms Rubin said, there is a need for public service structures to guide young people according to their possibilities and aspirations. There, we're really not there. You continue to ask teachers who are not the first mission to do orientation, but it does not work.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u311	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u312	You will refuse Article 2 on the basis of a flash mission. I don't want to be a bird of bad augurs, but when you know the fate of other flash missions during this quinquennium, you can have some doubts. For example, in July 2017, a member of Parliament spoke to you about the difficulties in health facilities. You then launched a flash mission on EHPADs, followed by a report; the end of the quinquennium is coming and nothing has been done. Instead of launching a flash mission, it would be desirable to review the proposed legislation and act immediately.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u313	It's called flash action!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u314	[[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] You keep saying, "What are your proposals? Perhaps you do not know, but we are currently debating a bill. Our proposals are here, these are the GDR Group's proposals that you are deleting by emptying the text from its meaning. Please stop asking us what our proposals are when we are debating the GDR Group's proposals!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u315	The rapporteur's amendment No 8 is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u316	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 9.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u317	It draws the consequences of the reform of the general baccalaureate on the Coursup procedure by imposing the publication of the combinations of optional teachings and specialties which the CEVs intend to favour for access to their training. The term "advised" replaces the term "necessary" to allow VECs to retain students who have not followed these teachings but whose profile nevertheless seems interesting to them. [[Applause]] [[Same movements]] I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Members who have accompanied me and the administrators who have been extremely effective. In particular, I would like to congratulate the administrator with whom I worked and who has just been received at the ENA. I would like to stress the quality of your work, which has been consistent, and the help you have given me at all times.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u318	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u319	The amendment is satisfied since, since 2020, all information on recommended courses, recommended courses and, where appropriate, specialist courses, is provided on the platform.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u320	Mr Moetai Brotherson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u321	I feel like we live in different worlds.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u322	That's clear.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u323	On the one hand, a world where everything is perfect and, on the other, a world where, if we do not say everything is bad, there are still things to improve. If it is distressing for a young man from Seine-Saint-Denis to orient himself in Parcoursup, imagine what it can be for a young person from the overseas. He must reserve his plane ticket which can cost him up to 3000 euros; He has no guarantee to find a place to stay when he comes here. Admittedly, the law was passed, but when the overseas youth want access to private housing, the owners do not accept that the parents are surety: they demand a guarantor in the metropolis. Imagine the stress experienced by these young people! [[Applause on the benches of the GDR, SOC and FI groups]] We propose simple measures, which aim to increase transparency, information, equality, but you sweep them away. That's too bad. I'm disappointed because I thought I was born in a republic where the place from which you come doesn't determine how far you can go.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u324	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u325	As all the articles were rejected, the bill was rejected.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u326	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u327	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u328	The next item is the discussion, pursuant to Article 34(1) of the Constitution, of the bill to combat the trivialization of hate speech in public debate (No. 4660).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u329	Mr Fabien Roussel spoke in the general debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u330	Our democracy is all the more alive as it feeds on a fierce confrontation of ideas, respecting our republican values. It is this framework, to which we are all fundamentally attached, that allows the widest possible freedom of political expression. For many years now, however, this pact that unites us has been misled and undermined by the trivialization of racist, discriminatory and anti-Semitic statements. Powered by social networks, relayed by certain media and by an accumulation of public statements, this banalization of racist statements threatens our society, as it threatens citizens attacked because of their skin colour, origin or religion. Unfortunately, the finding is not new. As early as 2015, the UN Committee on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination (CERD) was concerned about the trivialisation of hate speech towards minorities, including Roma, in France. In recent years, action against our Muslim or Jewish fellow citizens has progressed. The figures are sadly eloquent. They are a disturbing development of racist and anti-Semitic statements. In 2020, however marked by confinement, the French Council of Muslim Worship recorded a 53% increase over 2019 in anti-Muslim acts committed on our soil. For its part, the protection service of the Jewish community, while welcoming a slight decrease in anti-Semitic acts in 2020 compared to 2019 and 2018, deplores an explosion of 121% of these acts, between 2017 and 2019. But the numbers don't say everything. The uncompromising spread of hate speech has liberated far-right, identity, racist, supremacist organizations that were thought to have been sent back for a long time to the oblivions of history. The awakening is brutal, as we can all measure in everyday life, where ministers, parliamentarians or football players, artists are compared to monkeys, where our Muslim fellow Muslims are associated with terrorism, where synagogues and tombs are tagged with gammed crosses, when it is not the portrait of personalities like Simone Veil. We also remember the shootings of a former National Front candidate against the Bayonne mosque, causing two serious injuries.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u331	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u332	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u333	Lately, in Arras, it was far right activists who deployed, in front of the front of my party's local section, a banner reproducing the acronym of a terrorist group that carried out multiple attacks around the world. One of the offenders was wearing a T-shirt with a Waffen-SS death-head, the special unit responsible for managing the concentration camps. This kind of miserable episode is far from isolated, and my party has suffered no less than twenty-nine similar degradations in two years. Each time, these events arouse the general indignation of citizens, associations, veterans and deportees, elected officials from all sides, on the left and on the right, all gathered to reject this ideology, as we were, in the Resistance and for the liberation of the country. Yet racist and anti-Semitic statements persist in the public debate, speech and acts seem to be freed. For example, on 23 November, thirteen S-listed men, members of the extreme right-wing group "Recolonisation France", were arrested by the Directorate-General for Internal Security (DGSI) and the Central Office for Combating Crimes against Humanity (OCLCH): on social networks, this group called for the formation of armed units, with a view to a civil war caused by immigration. This climate, I repeat, is a threat to our democracy. That is why we must not only be extremely vigilant about what is being said in public space, but also with total firmness towards those who violate our laws. In this battle, the elected must be on the front line, blameless, exemplary. That is why, in the course of recent cases that have gone through our political life and on which I do not return, additional penalties of ineligibility have been imposed in the law. They are provided for in particular in cases of breach of the duty of probity, in cases of corruption, influence trafficking, tax or electoral fraud. Elected officials, national politicians, ministers have been punished, and that is so much better. Justice has done its job by imposing sentences of ineligibility. Who would accept that a political official convicted of embezzlement could stand for election? The same additional penalty of ineligibility also applies to offences of insult or violence of a racist, anti-Semitic or homophobic nature, apology of terrorism, negationist or participation in disbanded associations. At the beginning of this legislature, Parliament had seized this issue by adopting an amendment to the bill for the trust of political life, which was intended to make this sanction automatic. This was a courageous initiative, but the Constitutional Council invalidated this provision, precisely because of the automatic nature of the sentence. The motion for a resolution that we are submitting to you avoids this pitfall. It does not pretend to create new provisions but simply intends to recall the law, the whole law, just the law! Indeed, the Act of 29 July 1881, as amended by the Gayssot Act of 13 July 1990, already provides, in its article 24, for the punishment of the perpetrators of racist or discriminatory offences by an additional penalty of ineligibility. With this resolution, we propose that you send a strong, unanimous, republican message in order to guarantee a public debate without xenophobic comments. Let us hear: it is not, as I have heard, a matter of restricting freedom of expression, but rather of protecting it from those who pervert it. Nor is it a question of prohibiting anyone from running for office in the presidential election. That's not our role. There are rules, in particular relating to the presentation of 500 sponsorships, and it is up to the Constitutional Council to check whether all the conditions are met. With regard to ineligibility, it is the judges who decide whether or not to impose this sentence, including in future trials, regardless of your vote on this resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u334	Yes, absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u335	What we want is, through a vote that could be unanimous, to send a firm, simple and clear message to reaffirm that racist and anti-Semitic statements in our country are banned from public debate and can lead to the ineligibility of their author. To a few months of important elections, let us show the French that we can have a debate that highlights our differences but never falls into excess. I ask all of you: what image would we send back if, on the contrary, we rejected such a resolution? What would that mean? That racist speech is a matter of freedom of expression?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u336	It's a crime!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u337	That incitement to hatred can be included in the public debate, without causing us any problems? I therefore turn to you, Members of the majority and the Republican Group, whom I would like to see sitting to consider this resolution:...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u338	They're voting!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u339	[[Smile on the benches of the Dem group]] They've got work to do! They celebrate Eric Ciotti's victory!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u340	...what message will you send by your vote? If this text is rejected, the risk is to send a bad message, a bad signal: the message, serious, that racist and anti-Semitic speech is punishable only by a simple fine, as is currently the case in our law. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups. – Mrs Lamia El Aaraje also applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, the objective pursued by the motion for a resolution can, I believe, bring us together very widely, in the diversity of our opinions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u341	Mrs Laetitia Avia has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u342	Yes, Mr Roussel, this motion for a resolution is tempting. Let's not look at the face, we know what, or rather to whom it responds. And even if you have tried to distance yourself from it in your last speeches, the hate preacher who inspired your text has little doubt:...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u343	Deceitfully, there are more of them than that!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u344	...you said it without a doubt in previous media interventions. This makes the motion for a resolution all the more tempting. Believe me, I am the first irritated, what do I say, revolted, by the omnipresence in the media, and now in the presidential campaign, of a person condemned for provocation to hatred and discrimination. No, hate preachers have no place in public debate. What they do is not about freedom of expression, but about hate speech. Their words are all pranks in our republican pact: their venom seeks only to suffocate our Marianne and our values. No, we cannot pretend to want to represent a nation as rich in its diversity as ours by insulting women, immigrants, homosexuals, migrants, Muslims, the memory of deportees and, ultimately, all those who fight for our country and deeply love it. Believe me, we're aware of that. But this issue will be resolved in the ballot box, because if this motion for a resolution is tempting, it is not the solution. As you know, our legislative arsenal is sufficient.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u345	That's the point! It's about being aware of it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u346	Article 24 of the 1881 Act – a fundamental law that protects our freedom of expression and punishes the abuses committed in it – provides that a supplementary penalty for the prohibition of civil rights may be imposed on persons exercising public authority found guilty of incitement to hatred.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u347	We know that!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u348	Let's gather around this!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u349	This provision is precise, framed, applicable and applied. As proof, I would like to refer to the decision handed down on 15 May 2020 by the Criminal Chamber of the Court of Cassation against a municipal councillor of the Rassemblement national de Fontaine, in Isère, sentenced to a further four years of ineligibility for having made odious and unworthy remarks towards the Roma. To adopt this motion for a resolution would be to ask the guard of the seals to remind the judges what they are already doing,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u350	To the prosecutors!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u351	It's not the same thing!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u352	...to consider the prohibition of civil rights in particularly serious cases. It is not up to Parliament to ask the keeper of the seals to impose a degree of sanction on the justice system, or even to clarify a law, which is particularly clear and legible. Of course, we would seek in vain a plethora of case law on the application of this provision, and that is so much better. I like to think that this is an exceptional text designed to respond to exceptionally odious situations. Fortunately, there are few hate preachers who dare, after scratching one of our most beautiful and dearest freedoms – freedom of expression – to carry this hatred to the polls and, in doing so, to tell the nation that they are ready for all affronts. And when such a thing happens, I believe that our role is not to vote on resolutions or laws but, on the contrary, to preserve this House and all that it symbolizes. In the face of the bloodshed, the febrileness, the agitation and the indignity of the preachers of hatred, we parliamentarians will respond with distance and constancy and will ensure respect for and the preservation of our fundamental rights and our republican values, throughout the territory and at all times. Above all, ladies and gentlemen, we shall make known our unequivocal disapproval of everything that undermines our national cohesion, of everything that prompts the children of our Republic to wonder, today, whether they are still welcome in our country because of their first name, colour of skin, religion, sexual orientation or gender. We allow judges to decide which sentences are appropriate to each situation, in confidence. And we let citizens appreciate the quality of their representatives, in confidence. Here lies the strength of a democracy: it is always in the ballot boxes that we will fight the preachers of hatred. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] And know, ladies and gentlemen, that we are determined that there will not be any resolution, any law, any decree, any circular that bears their name. On that, I think we will join.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u353	Mr Jean-Paul Mattei has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u354	"Free communication of thoughts and opinions is one of the most valuable human rights: every citizen can therefore speak, write, print freely, except to answer for the abuse of this freedom in cases determined by law," recalls the Declaration of the Rights of Man and the Citizen. Rempart erected more than two centuries ago against censorship, this freedom, which is part of our constitutional block, has given rise to protective jurisprudence that can only be touched with a trembling hand. As we know in this Chamber, the Constitutional Council is, moreover, an unconditional guarantor of this fundamental freedom. He thus reminded the legislator that freedom of expression "includes the right for everyone to choose the terms judged by him best suited to the expression of his thought". If the legislator has to intervene to set limits to this freedom, when public order or other fundamental values are threatened, they can only be accepted if they meet the threefold criterion of necessity, adaptation and proportionality with regard to the objective pursued. In the explanatory memorandum to your motion for a resolution, Mr Roussel, you refer to the Constitutional Council's censorship of the mandatory supplementary penalty of ineligibility provided for in the law for confidence in political life, which carried a ban or an inability to hold public office. The sages of the rue de Montpensier considered that "for reprehensible whether the abuses in the freedom of expression covered by these provisions are reprehensible", the automatic nature of the sanction was "a disproportionate infringement" of this fundamental principle.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u355	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u356	Like you, like all Members present in this House, the Group of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related Democrats rejects speeches spreading or justifying racial hatred, xenophobia and anti-Semitism. We reject all forms of hatred based on intolerance, discrimination and violence. Like you, we believe that the discourses that convey these thoughts pose a risk to social peace and undermine our republican pact. However, unlike you, we do not believe that the adoption of this motion for a resolution is relevant in this fight that we are all fighting in this House. You propose that the circular on general criminal policy of the keeper of seals should specify to the competent courts "the conditions of application" of article 24 of the Act of 29 July 1881 "against any political official or any person involved in the political debate who would be guilty of the offences referred to in this article". You also propose that these courts should consider "the possibility of retaining the supplementary penalty of ineligibility provided for in this article" if the offence is particularly heinous or repeated. You therefore want the legislator to address the judge through this motion for a resolution and ask him to apply the additional penalty of ineligibility further.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u357	Yeah...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u358	If we understand your objectives, we believe that the judge must fully retain his discretion and control over the proportionality of sentences independently.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u359	There!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u360	By adopting your motion for a resolution, we would risk blurring the separation of powers and thus violating Article 16 of the Declaration of Human and Citizen Rights, which makes it an essential element of our republican pact.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u361	Oh!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u362	That's not the point!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u363	Ladies and gentlemen, we must not touch on this essential democratic principle. In conclusion, I would like to thank you, Mr Roussel, for giving us a new opportunity to speak out unanimously about hate speech or incitement to hatred, violence and discrimination. Like you, the Dem Group is committed to the probity of those who hold elected office or who aim to stand for election. But, unlike you, we consider that once the law is passed, the legislator does not have to interfere with the work of the judge.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u364	The D.A.'s job!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u365	[[Applause on several benches of the Dem group]] That is why we will not vote on your motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u366	Mrs Lamia El Aaraje has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u367	The Republic is a promise. The Republic is a perspective. The Republic is a model – major, fundamental, universal. The Republic includes everyone and offers a place for all. It gives meaning and a framework to the common. First of all, the motion for a resolution put on the agenda by our communist colleagues may not seem necessary. Indeed, can one think that in 2021, in France, country of the Enlightenment, country of human rights, country of Voltaire, the National Assembly has to discuss a text of this nature? Can we think that in 2021 we were witnessing such a breach of the public debate? Can it be thought that in 2021 we were witnessing, unbelievingly, media projections in which candidates for the highest office of our Republic are trampling our most fundamental human principles and our most elementary laws with impunity? Can we think that in 2021 we can stigmatize, vilipender, insult, denigrate some of our fellow citizens, some of our children, because of their first name, their skin colour, or the origin of their parents, grandparents, great-grandparents, or even great-great-grandparents? To the great regret of my political family and, I believe, of all the Republicans, of all the lovers of France, we have entered a period of very great political turbulence. Everyone has an opinion on everything, knows better than everyone else, can do better than everyone else and, above all, says it everywhere, in every tone, using all possible slippages: the most outrageous, the most racist and the most hateful. Hate has become the opium of fear agitators, the trading fund of past preachers and the leitmotiv of all those who think that the other is an enemy because different, because other. This hatred dissipates like a poison that gradually slips into all the homes, invites itself to all the tables and squats all the TV sets. Some have fun blowing on the embers of this hatred, pretending to be Republican ramparts, but actually devoking the Republic for populist and electoral purposes, and making our common salvation a nail sealing the extremist grave that some conscientiously dig. As if the past had not been a lesson. As if the future of our children didn't matter to them. As if the Republic did not deserve to be cared for. I welcome the initiative of our communist colleagues. Although it is clear that it is not up to Parliament or the Government to dictate to justice the application of the law, the warning contained in the motion for a resolution is not uninteresting, even though the Constitutional Council has – logically – retold its automatic application in 2017. The motion for a resolution calls on the keeper of the seals to recall the meaning and interest of the supplementary penalty of ineligibility in the event of hate speech by a public figure. These preachers of hatred, the prophets of the past, the heirs of Pétain, Maurras or Renaud Camus threaten the peace guaranteed by the Republic and our democracy. They stage our society in a perverted way. So yes, these personalities, those who point a gun at journalists at close range, those who insult the press, those who do offensive acts to our fellow citizens, those who are threats to democracy, those who deny the crimes of our country's past, those who consider that some humans, better born, are better than others, are fought on the republican benches of Parliament and, more generally, by society. Yes, the legislation is sufficient to condemn incitement to discrimination, hatred and violence. But our responsibility here is collective. Political figures, media figures, public figures... We must block against these preachers of hatred, when some are tempted by discussions, negotiations, compromise to the taste of compromise with these singers of France rancid. Republican values oblige us to extreme vigilance towards personalities who use their entire aura to preach discrimination, hatred, violence. [[Applause on the benches of the SOC and GDR groups, as well as on many benches of the FI group]] We are members of the Socialist and related group, committed against extremists, populists and demagogues, committed against all racist, anti-Semitic or homophobic hatreds. We shall therefore vote on the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u368	Mrs Agnès Firmin Le Bodo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u369	"The hymn of hatred does not benefit humanity," said Gandhi. Before I present to you the Group's position on this motion for a resolution, I think it is absolutely necessary to explain the context in which it fits. Others have done so before me in the rostrum, but the subject, particularly sensitive, is worth taking the time to recall the current state of law by a few simple and clear questions. First of all, is incitement to hatred already an offence in France? The answer is yes. Since the Act of 29 July 1881 on freedom of the press, incitement to hatred has been punishable by five years' imprisonment and a fine of 45,000 euros. Secondly, can incitement to hatred already lead to ineligibility? The answer is still yes, because the judge can decide on a supplementary sentence of ineligibility of up to five years. Thirdly, is the judge encouraged to ask for this ineligibility, as this resolution proposes? The answer could have been yes, thanks to the law of 15 September 2017 for trust in public life, voted by the majority, rejected by the Republicans and on which the GDR group, I believe, unfortunately abstained. This new law made it mandatory for the judge to consider a supplementary penalty of ineligibility when a person was convicted. There was a very important distinction here: if the judge was obliged to consider the supplementary penalty of ineligibility, he was not obliged to impose it. We thus respected two fundamental principles of the rule of law to which the group Acting together, like the keeper of seals, is very attached: the individualization and proportionality of penalties. If I do not speak to the present, it is because the sages of the Constitutional Council, in their decision of 8 September 2017, have censored this provision, considering it to be a disproportionate violation of freedom of expression – a fact to be taken into account, you will agree, for the consideration of this resolution. Therefore, and without wishing to protect the elected representatives who are justiciables like the others – I insist on the words "like the others" – the Group of the European People's Party has reservations about the motion for a resolution for three reasons. The first is that, if we recognize the urgent need to combat hate speech and the valorisation of those who profess it, it seems to us that the current legal framework is largely satisfactory without the need for the minister to make any recommendation to the prosecutors. Like you, Mr Roussel, we strongly condemn racist, anti-Semitic or homophobic statements. The second is the separation of powers. What message would we send? The legislative branch, asking the executive branch to urge the judiciary to put "out of the race" some elected officials or candidates for elections! This would in no way serve democracy or political debate, and would only strengthen certain victimization strategies.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u370	That's not what we said!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u371	The third is the refusal of the judicialization of political life. Only citizens are judges, and they are free to accept or refuse political figures by going to the polls. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Taking these reservations into account, we believe that debate, truth and courage are the best weapons in the face of hatred. "Hate is the anger of the weak," said Alphonse Daudet. In the face of those against whom this resolution is directed, we are all convinced that it is the debate, with respect for republican values, that makes our strength.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u372	Mr Yannick Favennec-Becot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u373	A year ago, on December 2, 2020, we learned of the death of the former President of the Republic Valéry Giscard d'Estaing. You know my loyalty to this great statesman and the commitment of our group, the IDU-I, to its centrist and humanistic political values. It is therefore not without some emotion that I am speaking today at the rostrum of our Assembly. This is an emotion that is twofold because, following the death of Valéry Giscard d'Estaing, I, together with my group, tabled a motion for a resolution to add on behalf of the museums in Orsay and Orangery that of the former President of the Republic. This motion for a resolution, adopted unanimously a few months later, has borne fruit, since a decree of 28 July 2021 changed the name of the public establishment of the Musée d'Orsay and the Musée de l'Orangerie. If I say that, it is to remind you that the motions for resolutions are not anodizing. They are a strong signal of national representation. This strong message, it is essential to hammer it today against hate speech and violence in the public debate because the reality that we have been living for several years is that of mediated hate speech that is spreading and seems to normalize, including in the mouths of those who participate in the public debate. This reality is difficult, and the very fact of approaching the subject says something painful about the state of our society, which seems to be always a little more offending, between those who suffer so much malice and intolerance and those who convey them. This banalization is a serious challenge to us. Discriminant, deleterious, cleavage discourse undermines our democracy and respect for everyone's fundamental rights. One of the first laws condemning these words dates back to 1881. Yet, it must be noted that they continue to thrive, or even have a certain revival, as if our tolerance for them had changed. The hearing given to the overmediatization of extreme words must challenge us. No ambiguity is possible: our group, like all of us, as well as the very clear majority of our fellow citizens, rejects any hate speech or incitement to hatred. While democracy is rich in plurality of opinion and freedom of expression remains one of the most fundamental rights, it cannot be exercised without limits when it manifests itself in words inciting racial hatred and discrimination. We therefore support this motion for a resolution, which gives us an opportunity to strongly condemn the drifts, but also, it must be said, the insidious complicity of certain controversial media. I would like to welcome the choice to better enforce the law in force rather than invent an umpteenth criminal offence. The Government's criminal policy instructions must be clear,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u374	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u375	... in order for the courts to deal more systematically with the supplementary penalty of ineligibility in the event of a conviction for these statements.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u376	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u377	In the public debate, those wishing to take up elective office must be exemplary. It seems all the more paradoxical to utter hate speech when one aspires to functions that should gather, and all the more unlikely to have been condemned for these crimes while aspired to represent the French people. Racism, xenophobia, anti-Semitism and any form of incitement to violence on the grounds of race, origin or religion are not ideas or opinions, but reprehensible allegations. It is not acceptable for those who profess them to have access to political responsibilities. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups. – Mr. Francis Chouat also applauds]] Against this scourge, we, already elected, have a special responsibility to combat the spread of these speeches. The IDU and independent group will therefore vote with conviction in favour of the motion for a resolution. This text is not legally binding, but it is symbolically very important. We hope that Mr. Keeper of the Seals will take his full part in implementing this proposal, and I am surprised that the majority does not vote for it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u378	You have shown a great deal of dignity, dear colleague!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u379	Yes, he did, at least he understood!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u380	And Mr. Keeper of the Seals too...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u381	Thank you, Mr. President Chassaigne.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u382	Mr Paul Molac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u383	For months, hate speech has flooded our antennas. In particular, they are conveyed in the media by some candidates who rebuke old obsessions and whom you have named in your speech. The motion for a resolution "invites the keeper of the seals, as part of his responsibility for the conduct of criminal policy, to specify to the competent courts the conditions for the application of the law against any political official or any person involved in the political debate who would be guilty of the offences referred to in article 24 of the Act of 29 July 1881, and to consider the possibility of retaining the additional penalty of ineligibility provided for in that article if the offence proved to be particularly heinous or repeated". We fully understand the objective. Hate and racism have nothing to do with the public debate. A succession of welcome laws, including the Gayssot Act of 1990, have gradually, rightly, restricted freedom of expression in our democracy. Democracy is not just the freedom to say everything and anything, including hate speech that fuels violence, despises our fellow citizens and denies their humanity. The human first and foremost, with respect for his dignity and person! However, we have several questions of form and substance. On the form, we wish to renew our commitment to the independence of justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u384	So do we!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u385	We are against the injunctions issued to prosecutors by the guard of the seals: a breach should not be opened in respect of the independence of the prosecutor's office. Of course, the keeper of seals has the possibility to formulate general instructions on criminal policy, and that is the meaning of the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u386	That's right! Thank you.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u387	In substance, then, we are divided on the fact that this method is the best to combat the trivialization of hate speech in the media.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u388	It's a complementary method!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u389	Censorship is the ultimate argument used by detractors of democracy to convince and rally new supporters. Therefore, be careful that the remedy is not worse than the evil by making these propagators of hatred, victims. Trump's election in the United States was the perfect example: many voters did not vote Trump for his ideas, but by rejecting American media and academic elites who stood as moral guides for society as a whole. This rejection of the elites was fueled by the contempt they gave the candidate, constantly mocking him, contemptating him, parodying him. Nevertheless, it must be noted that the very great manslaughter of the media that allowed him to spread his speech of rejection almost led to a coup d'état. The central question seems more to me to be the media system. We have entered a time when all words are valid, especially those that provide simple answers to complex problems. The media bonus goes to the utterance – and even to the stupidity – the most extreme, to make the buzz. The media have an amplifying effect that has ended up trivializing the worst, and the candidate who emerges in the media is not the one who has the most successful programme, but the one who has the best control of the media codes that value the most shocking words, which relay what is disorder and scandal, which pleases the algorithms of social networks. It is the whole of the media operation that needs to be rethought. Our democracy is fragile: the responsibility would be to consolidate this common good rather than weaken it. This is what our Parliament should focus on, in particular by preventing some people from concentrating a number of media in their hands...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u390	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u391	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u392	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u393	Humanity is not concerned...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u394	... for purposes that are not necessarily the defense of the ideals of democracy, nor humanitarian ideals. So we can legitimately question the problematic concentration of the media in a few hands. More modestly, candidates' speaking time in the media should be redefined together, most often determined by surveys rather than by electoral representativeness, on the basis of too vague criteria left to the interpretation of the media. This is not serious: the polls represent only a state of opinion at the moment T, even though, as far from the election, opinion fluctuates widely, depending on the topics that the media put forward. The duration of election campaigns should also be extended. Why would one candidate have much more time than another in the months before the election? [[Applause on the benches of the LT group]] In the end, Members of the Liberties and Territories Group will vote in freedom of conscience on this text, which raises the essential question of the limits of freedom of expression in our democracy.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u395	Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u396	On behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, I join the Group of the European People's Party (GDR) in launching an alert, through this motion for a resolution, which Mr Fabien Roussel presented a few minutes ago with brilliance and conviction.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u397	People's union!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u398	We could all already observe outbursts of hatred of all kinds, especially racial hatred; We are now witnessing attempts at deed that alarm us. Because of the customary benevolence that characterizes us all, we would never have imagined that people who already said so many fools were able to manage to train themselves to shoot at caricatures of either of us, to threaten to assassinate people, to train commandos. Indubitably, we are faced with a threshold crossing. That is the context in which we are looking at this text, which the GDR Group is right to defend. Racism is not only an offence to the intelligence of the situation that governs the French public spirit since Humanism and the Enlightenment, which postulates that universalism is the unsurpassable horizon of the representation that human beings can make to each other: recognizing that they are all similar by their needs, we deduce that they are all equal in law to satisfy them. What seemed obvious, after the opposite had been demonstrated in such a bloody and absurd, cruel and defiant manner by the Nazi regime, was again called into question. Racism is not only an offence against the intelligence of the situation; It is an education to indifference to suffering and singularity. For the racist, the individual does not exist; Each is integrated into a category to which characteristics are assigned, so that one becomes insensitive to what happens to each person. From this point of view, racism is an atmosphere that prepares for violence, for murder, which is accustomed to the idea that some may be mistreated to death.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u399	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u400	In the recent past, we had already proposed an amendment to the confidence in political life bill, which aimed at the same result, and tended to initiate a direction of work identical to that proposed with this bill. However, the LaREM group had boldly extended the scope of the proposed convictions to include all the offences defined by the 1881 Act, up to the point of insult. However, it is on this point – I ask you to retain it – that the Constitutional Council has given its opinion. He did not want to say that racism was an opinion like any other, which as such would have the right to be spoken. It considered that "for reprehensible whether the abuses in the freedom of expression covered by these provisions, by providing for the mandatory ineligibility of their author, the legislator has brought to freedom of expression a disproportionate infringement" – because of the inclusion of the insult. However, the text which Mr Roussel submitted for our consideration does not reproduce this error; It tends to invite the keeper of the seals to give the prosecutor instructions on the penalties to be imposed for one of the acts concerned. The motion for a resolution therefore does not threaten the independence of justice: it is the role of the keeper of seals to give instructions on general judicial policy.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u401	That's right! Thank you, Mr. Mélenchon!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u402	The text seeks to do so by drawing the attention of the judge of the seat to the fact that the penalty of ineligibility is provided for in certain cases, including the one before us. This motion for a resolution is therefore in no way an attack on the separation of powers. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group and on a few benches of the GDR group]] Moreover, the members of the group La France insoumée are in favour of replacing circulars of this nature emanating from the guard of seals – whatever it may be – by laws of judicial policy, passed by Parliament. It seems to me that our comrades in the GDR group are conceiving the same thing as us. It's normal for the prosecutor to be the company's lawyer. We cannot imagine any independence other than administrative;...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u403	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u404	... its independence cannot be to renounce the role of society's lawyer. Only the nation and its deputies can interpret it. Otherwise who? The caste of those who succeed each other in office? No!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u405	That's very clear, congratulations!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u406	The method has already been applied. Mrs Belloubet, then keeper of the seals, intervened by a circular to demand a particular rigor in the repression of the yellow vests.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u407	[[Other members of the FI group are the chief's]] That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u408	In addition, the penalty of ineligibility was applied to an elected member convicted of having proposed that the Roma pay with their golden teeth for the damage they allegedly caused. [[Vif applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] [[Same moves. – The speaker, returning to his bench, receives the congratulations of his colleagues]] One cannot be a representative of the French people if one does not understand, not that one must be exemplary – it is not the subject and no one is – but that the words that one holds cannot exclude from representation a part of that same people. We cannot pretend to be the representative of what we have divided ourselves.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u409	On the motion for a resolution, I have a request from the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. The general discussion is closed. The next speaker is Mr Custody of the Seals, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u410	I understand and share the concern that this motion for a resolution from the GDR Group wishes to respond to. Our Republican pact is increasingly being undermined by hate speech, the victims of which are men and women who are discriminated against because of their origin, skin colour, religion and sexuality. These statements are all the more unacceptable, all the more unforgivable, all the more reprehensible when they are made by actors in public life, particularly by elected officials or politicians. Such speeches are not recent – as you recalled, Mr Roussel – but the virality of social networks gives them a much more destructive echo than before. It should be recalled in advance that these statements do not constitute an opinion, but an offence, provided for and punishable by the Act of 29 July 1881 on freedom of the press, which was directly inspired by article 11 of the Declaration of the Rights of Man and the Citizen of 1789. When I arrived in Vendôme, in my speech of transfer of powers, I very firmly announced my intentions. They were, are and will always be clear: as the keeper of the seals, I will fight and fight with force hatred and all types of racism. I have kept my promises, with the creation of a national online anti-hate court, with amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure in order at last to try more quickly the perpetrators of hateful and discriminatory statements, as well as with the dissemination of very precise circulars aimed at mobilising the entire criminal chain. I believe that we are joining forces to define the objectives to be achieved in the fight against this devastating hatred. But the purpose of your motion for a resolution is to invite me "to clarify to the competent courts the conditions for the application of the law against any political official or any person involved in the political debate who would be guilty of the offences referred to in article 24 of the Act of 29 July 1881, and to consider the possibility of retaining the additional penalty of ineligibility provided for in that article if the offence proved to be particularly heinous or repeated". If I fully understand the meaning of your text, I must also remind you of the framework of my action, which is none other than that determined by the laws of the Republic. The additional penalty of ineligibility is already applicable, but judges must remain fully independent in the exercise of their judicial functions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u411	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u412	Your motion for a resolution does not refer to the prosecutor's office, but to the competent courts, including the judges of the seat.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u413	Don't give a technical answer!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u414	Can you imagine, since this is the desired effect, the Minister of Justice calling on the courts to retain the penalty of ineligibility against certain categories of offenders? This is the Office entirely exclusive of the courts which must remain independent in their assessment of individual cases. The Constitution provides for this, and that is very good. In the current electoral context, I do not hide from you that I see the instrumentalization that would be made of your motion for a resolution if the Assembly voted on it, in particular by those it would aim at. I already hear those who do not recede in front of any outrage, no lie, no caricature, accuse the government of trying to muzzle their word...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u415	To muzzle racist speech, yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u416	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] ... as we approach a major democratic deadline in the life of our country. The Government's criminal policy must remain general and impersonal, and therefore cannot be specifically aimed at X, Y or Z.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u417	I didn't target anyone!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u418	I also hear them denouncing the pressure that would be put on justice. I still hear them indignant about the existence of a "government of judges", because this complementary penalty, which our law does provide, would deprive voters of the power to punish the perpetrators themselves, by not voting for them. I finally hear them insinuating...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u419	[[Smile on the benches of the FI group]] Really, do you hear any voices?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u420	... that we would not trust our fellow citizens – worse, that we would wish to confiscate them the election and hence the popular sovereignty that ensues from it. That's why I'm telling you, let's not fool ourselves! Above all, give them no excuse – I say no pretext –,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u421	Let's do it, then!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u422	Oh, no!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u423	Oh, no! But give them no excuse to propose what they want and to prosper on the mistrust of our fellow citizens, nor to let them believe that they would be the only real representatives of the French people, faced with elites who would try to gag them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u424	Don't say anything, it's just let it happen!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u425	Until proven otherwise, you are still the nation's representatives in this country! Democracy must live in the ballot box, not in the courtrooms.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u426	Your position is to trivialize the phenomenon!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u427	Like the 1930s!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u428	However, Mr Roussel, I thank you very much because this debate on your motion for a resolution allows us to reaffirm the strength of our common values. Of course, I am talking about the values common to all the Republicans present here, of which you are of course a part. Your proposal allows us to collectively demonstrate our strength of soul, at a time when some are indignant at questions from a journalist or a press they would like to command; at a time when some would like to repeal – you have heard me, to repeal – the 1881 law, the foundation of freedom of expression, but also of its indispensable limitations. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] [[Same movements]] We, the Republicans, are and will remain irreparably attached to the Republic and its values of freedom and equality, as well as fraternity. We, the Republicans, do and will do everything in our power, in the inviolable respect of our rule of law, to preserve it from the relentless attacks it suffers. We Republicans trust the French not to give in to the deceptive sirens of the delinquents of the verb, of those who fantasize on sepia photos, of those who convoke the history and stories of the great men to put them at the service of their small narrow ideas, far, far away from that France which they claim to defend, the beacon of a nation enlightened and admired for centuries. [[Same movements]] For all these reasons, ladies and gentlemen, the Government is against the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u429	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u430	I put to the vote the single article in the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u431	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 55 Number of votes cast 54 Absolute majority 28 For adoption 22 Against 32
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u432	The next item is the debate on the bill, as amended by the Senate at second reading, containing various measures of social justice (No. 4558, 4713).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u433	The Secretary of State for Disabled Persons has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u434	Making society a fully inclusive society: this is the ambition that has guided the Government's action on disability for the past four years; This is reflected in the five interdepartmental disability committees held under the leadership of the Prime Minister since 2017. This debate, no one knows, is taking place a few months before the presidential deadline.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u435	It doesn't start well!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u436	What a politician! What a scandal!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u437	This debate, which we have already had on many occasions, must not, however, overshadow the major advances made, often collectively – and I would like to stress this – on disability. Yes, thanks to everyone's mobilization, we've changed the deal. Of course, there is still a long way to go, we are all aware of that. Since 2017, we have not only strengthened the participation of people with disabilities, but we have guaranteed them their rightful place as citizens in their own right, not in their own right. This policy has been defended by all and also by you, ladies and gentlemen. Because advancing the participation of people with disabilities is everyone's business. In the present period, disturbed by the desire of some to stir up the fears and distrust of the other, it is important to recall this message of social cohesion and living together, where the difference makes the richness of society. Remember that our country spends nearly €51.7 billion annually on disability policies, an unprecedented increase of 17% since 2017. Here again, it is the fruit of your work every year to enrich and give more ambition to the bills of finance and financing of social security. We are the first government that has massively simplified the administrative procedures of individuals and their families, with the creation of life rights in 2019. It is no longer necessary to ask people with irreversible disabilities to constantly renew their rights. That's the trust society. It was the thread that guided the actions of the Government as a whole, always to improve the daily lives of persons with disabilities and to restore them to their full citizenship, to give them the tools to be the main actor in decisions affecting them. Yes, we are choosing a policy of self-determination, not that of house arrest. This choice, we did it together and with the departments, when you passed the Social Security Financing Act for 2021, with the introduction of support for shared life. It promotes inclusive housing solutions that allow those who wish to live at home to share, while being accompanied as much as they need. We are deeply convinced that autonomy depends on the ability of people to work and also on the talent and wealth that they can bring to society. That is why we must be able to guarantee access to employment and to any activity contributing to the development of the person, whatever his needs and especially his desires. Again, you were at the meeting. In the law for the freedom to choose one's professional future, in particular, we have together profoundly transformed apprenticeship and vocational training, with the aim of social emancipation through training and work. We have given ourselves the means to ensure that our ambition is not incantation; we have put in place the appropriate support of the person and the employer, public or private, in the field. Because professional activity is at the heart of the demands of people with disabilities and at the heart of our society project. It's possible and it works. Let us take just one example: the aid for the recruitment of persons with disabilities, in the recovery plan, in the amount of 4000 euros. Over 25,000 contracts were signed, 70 per cent of them in CDI. We are continuing together, in particular with the draft law on differentiation, decentralization, deconcentration and introducing various measures to simplify local public action, known as 3DS, by breaking the barriers that still exist in the professional projects of these people. This is the whole issue of opening up the possibility of cumulation of part time in establishments and support services through work (ESAT) and in the ordinary environment. This is how people are accompanied, also by allowing a young person to no longer have to worry about the sometimes heavy administrative procedures to obtain the recognition of the status of disabled worker (RQTH) when he or she wishes to enter the apprenticeship, making it almost automatic. As you can see, ladies and gentlemen, this policy reflects an ambitious vision of society, which advocates the power to act, self-determination and emancipation of people. This vision, we have defended together, is that of an inclusive society. Resolutely convinced by this transformative vision to which I am attached, I really want to refute the view of commemoration or miserabilism that people with disabilities are often referred to. Let us now turn to the question of deconjugalization. We have had the opportunity to discuss it many times and you know the position of the Government. The principle of conjugalization was not an initiative of the Government, it had inherited it. It dates back to 1975 and governs all social minima.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u438	The allowance for disabled adults is not a social minimum!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u439	It's an autonomy allowance!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u440	Society is based on national and family solidarity;...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u441	Not with the calculation system you're proposing!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u442	...these are not vain words. At six months of the elections, all parties seized the deconjugalization and demanded a change in this so strong value. Many political families, present on these benches, defended the fact that national solidarity can be linked with family solidarity, because the home is the protective unit of society, because it is the very foundation of the system to ensure the fair redistribution of the solidarity effort to those who need it most. Let me remind you once again that the allowance for adults with disabilities (AAH), established by the Act of 30 June 1975, is intended to ensure decent living conditions for people with disabilities with the lowest resources. Like any social minimum under ordinary law, such as the active solidarity income (ASR), the specific solidarity allowance (ASS) and the solidarity allowance for the elderly (ASPA), the allowance for adults with disabilities is based on national solidarity and more specifically on solidarity between spouses, as referred to in the Civil Code. Why do we not have the same debates on the solidarity allowance for the elderly, which shares the same code, the same level of benefit, the same ceiling and the same marital calculation? Why are older people, as well as people with disabilities, not choosing their situation? Let us then open the debate for all!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u443	Yes, let's go!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u444	In view of these findings, we have chosen to strengthen the purchasing power of people, without affecting the founding principle of the system.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u445	You keep breaking it, the founding principle of the system!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u446	This is how we change people's daily lives. The AAH's increase of EUR 100 per month from EUR 800 to EUR 904 for 1.2 million beneficiaries is a significant gain that everyone has been able to benefit from and a massive investment of more than 2 billion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u447	And you give 40 billion to businesses, but it's no big deal...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u448	The AAH now accounts for more than EUR 12 billion in the state budget. The deconjugation you call of your wishes presents an intrinsic problem, since in 30% of couples it is the person with a disability who works; She is the one who is financially responsible for the needs of her home.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u449	What about the remaining 70%?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u450	It is precisely these people, these citizens in their own right, who assume their families like everyone else, who would see their purchasing power diminished. Among these 44,000 people, some would even lose their AAH completely.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u451	It's no longer true with the Senate writing!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u452	To overcome this injustice contained in the very principle of deconjugalization, you propose a right of option that complicates the choice of people, without settling the situation of new entrants.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u453	Oh, there!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u454	I do not see social justice when deconjugalization increases the purchasing power of the wealthiest couples and reduces the purchasing power of the poorest working couples. I see nowhere social justice when we bring in new, well-off couples into the system of solidarity to bring out those who get up in the morning to go to work.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u455	You're alone against all the people involved!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u456	It is not justice, nor social, when we lose people with disabilities who work, whose home is currently protected by the maritalization of income.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u457	What a shame to hear that!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u458	This is not an incentive to seek employment or to pursue a professional activity. Social justice is to shift the money from national solidarity to those who need it most.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u459	How can one accuse someone with a disability of not wanting to work?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u460	I have heard alerts from people with disabilities; We responded immediately.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u461	How dare you say such things?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u462	The choice made by the presidential majority is that of a reform which, thanks to the introduction of a flat-rate reduction of 5000 euros, will allow 120000 people to benefit from a monthly increase of 110 euros on average, up to 185 euros, starting in January. We've said it, we're acting. This is not a measure: we are talking about half of the beneficiaries of the AAH in a couple who will see their purchasing power increase tomorrow, without that of anyone being started. It is an additional investment by the State, fair and redistributive, for more social justice, in the amount of 185 million euros. It will also allow 60% of couples to keep the allowance at full rate, compared to 45% today. However, if a change in the way in which social minima are dealt with cannot be approached under the prism of a particular situation, at the risk of stigmatizing also some of our fellow citizens, it can be at the origin of a real debate in society: that of the individualisation of all social minima. The individualisation of the AAH, if extended to all social minimums, would cost public finances nearly €20 billion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u463	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u464	Nevertheless, it would pose a real cross-cutting and egalitarian question, since it would also concern the RSA, the ASPA and the ASS, as I said earlier. The debate can and must be different. I have always defended the vision of a citizenship that does not exclude anyone.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u465	Yes, it excludes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u466	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups. – Mrs. Michèle Peyron also applauds]] The question of how to calculate social minima is legitimate but is part of a more global context. It asks us about the very meaning that we want to give to the system of solidarity and the contract that we want to give ourselves collectively, in order to make society. This question is ultimately part of the philosophy of the social pact that is dear to us all.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u467	Mr Stéphane Peu, rapporteur of the Committee on Social Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u468	We are gathered on the eve of the World Day of Persons with Disabilities to discuss a text that is expected and repairing profound injustices, which have weakened some of our fellow citizens for too long. I am proud to defend this bill for the second time, with our colleague Jeanine Dubie. The de-judgment of the allowance for adults with disabilities, a benefit of autonomy, is indeed an urgent matter. I would point out that even at full rates, it is below the poverty line. The amount is calculated on the basis of the income of the beneficiary and his or her spouse. Therefore, if the couple's income exceeds a certain ceiling, the AAH is reduced proportionately or is no longer collected by the beneficiary. Persons with disabilities are therefore subject to a sinister choice: to renounce their financial independence or to live as a couple; This is what they call the price of love, an unacceptable price. No, it is not acceptable to maintain in force rules of calculation contrary to the autonomy and dignity of persons,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u469	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u470	... rules that tend to lock people with disabilities in a situation of unhealthy dependency on their spouses to dress, to have a personal phone, to go to the cinema, to have a drink with friends. Is this not an intolerable violation of individual freedoms? The suffering of illness and disability often adds a sense of shame and worthlessness to the inability to contribute to the household's resources. In the case of women with disabilities who are victims of violence, this financial dependency may prove even more dramatic. Indeed, financial dependence feeds psychological dependency and it is all the more difficult to extract from situations of abuse and violence without own resources, having to wait several weeks to recover a full-rate AHA. Yes, these rules of calculation are contrary to the most elementary humanity and France's commitments to the protection of human rights. The Defender of Rights has been clear in this regard, as has the National Advisory Commission on Human Rights – CNCDH: they have recalled that the current method of calculation runs counter to the principles of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, that it does not respect the rights to dignity, autonomy, the possibility of freely making its own choices and to have an adequate standard of living, and that it hinders the right to found a family or to live as a couple. On 17 June, the Government was shamefully using the blocked vote to obstruct the deconjugation of the AAH. Then, in October, our colleague Aurélien Pradié's bill was rejected. Finally, last week, in committee, the Government and its majority removed the articles of our bill coldly. The flat-rate reduction, presented as an alternative to deconjugalization, which you proposed at the second reading of the text in the Assembly and which was included in the finance bill, is by no means an adequate response. This measure maintains the status quo, gives an arm of honour to the unanimous associations that demand this deconjugation and completely distorts the original ambition of our text, namely the recognition of the right to autonomy and thus to individualisation. Nor did the Senate wish to do so and re-established, on second reading, the version of articles 3 and 3 bis that it had adopted on first reading. I commend the work of the senators who restored the DHA increase for dependants and established a transitional period for the 44,000 estimated losers of individualization reform. Today we are faced with a choice: to maintain an obsolete and unjust method of calculation or to recognize once and for all the right to autonomy of persons with disabilities.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u471	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u472	The individualisation of the AAH is expected and well beyond the associations of people with disabilities. It should therefore be recalled that the petition for the dissolution of the spouse's income for the payment of the AAH, published on the Senate website, is the first to have reached the threshold of more than 100,000 signatures; The petition for the de-judgment of the disabled adult allowance and the adoption of Bill No. 3970, published on the Assembly's website, now brings together more than 30,000. In an open letter of 4 November, a group of associations called on the Presidents of the National Assembly and the Senate to put an end to the conjugalization of the AAH, referring to "a far-reaching social advance on which respect for the rights, health and dignity of the persons concerned depends". [[Applause on the benches of the GDR, LR, SOC and LT groups]] It is our responsibility to hear this request and to be up to the challenge. I therefore urge you to vote for the amendments to reinstate Articles 3 and 3a, which we are defending, like many of our colleagues.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u473	Mrs Jeanine Dubie, rapporteur of the Committee on Social Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u474	As part of the third reading of the bill on various social justice measures, we are once again calling for a decision on the de-judgment of the allowance for adults with disabilities. This bill, adopted at second reading by the Senate on October 12, is once again on our agenda by the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left, and I thank him warmly for that. I particularly thank our colleague Stéphane Peu: it is an honour to present this text with him. I also greet Marie-George Buffet, who has been active in this field for many years. [[Applause on many benches in the GDR group]] No, Madam Secretary of State, we will not give up this essential fight and we will lead it to national representation as many times as necessary, until we finally get justice and return to the absurdity of taking into account the spouse's income in calculating the AAH and its cap. Yes, this method of calculation is absurd. There are many testimonies from people with disabilities who hide, give up being a couple or living with their spouses in order not to lose their allowances. It can also be dangerous: the financial dependence on a spouse is particularly problematic for women who are victims of domestic violence, and constitutes an additional obstacle to extracting from situations of influence. Finally, it is intolerable, because it largely contravenes the principle of the autonomy of persons with disabilities, and more broadly, the dignity of persons with disabilities. [[Marie-George Buffet applauds]] On the other hand, I would like to reiterate once again that the AAH is not a social minimum. On the one hand, it is provided for in the Social Security Code and not in the Code of Social Action and the Code of Families; its litigation is within the competence of the social security courts; It is a matter of national and non-family solidarity, contrary to what you say, simply because family solidarity applies only to social assistance schemes. On the other hand, by its nature, the AAH cannot be regarded as a social minimum. AAH is an alternative income granted by medical decision to persons who are unable to engage in full-time or part-time work because of their disability. It is for these reasons that I tabled the bill last year that we are considering. As I recall, it was adopted on first reading on February 13, 2020 by the Assembly and on March 9, 2021 by the Senate, which improved it, thanks to the work of its rapporteur, Philippe Mouille. Every time, the vote went beyond the political divide. At second reading in the Assembly last June, the text was completely emptied of its content by an amendment by the Government and the majority which substitutes for the mechanism of individualisation of the AAH a flat-rate reduction on the spouse's income. This mechanism, which was adopted under the unworthy conditions of a blocked vote and included in the finance bill, fully distorts the original ambition of the bill. The beneficiaries of the AAH do not want an increase in the benefit, but the guarantee of genuine autonomy. That is why on October 12, the original version of the text was reinstated. The individualization of the AAH is a long-standing demand of persons with disabilities and, as we know, its adoption would be historic. Other measures in this bill are dear to me, such as the postponement of the age limit from 60 to 65, except for exceptions, in order to apply for the disability compensation benefit (PCH), as well as the provisions to support and encourage the sporting journey of persons with disabilities. We cannot ignore the very strong mobilization of the bill, especially the more than 100,000 signatures of the online petition on the Senate site, which led him to put the text on the Orders of the Day. Finally, by going back to deconjugalization, the Government creates a legal inconsistency that causes a difference in treatment between beneficiaries. Indeed, Article 2 of the bill, which provides for the abolition of the increase of the AAH's cumulation ceiling with the guaranteed remuneration for couples, was adopted in conformity by the Senate at first reading. This situation creates inequality vis-à-vis the other beneficiaries of the AAH, always subject to the conjugalization of the allowance. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR, LR, SOC and LT groups. – Mr Stéphane Peu, rapporteur, also applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, I therefore invite you to vote on the amendments to reinstate Articles 3 and 3a. I really call on every Member to vote in his own soul and conscience. On the eve of the International Day of Persons with Disabilities, if we reinstate the text in its version adopted by the Senate, we will make a fine gesture of gratitude to people with disabilities, who have been waiting for it for so long.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u475	Mrs Marie-George Buffet spoke in the general debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u476	Members of the GDR Group have the will, once again, to speak for people with disabilities: they want to be autonomous. However, this aspiration for self-government is hampered by the Government's persistent refusal not to see deconjugalization as a major step forward for the beneficiaries of the AAH. All associations defending the rights of persons with disabilities propose and support this measure of justice. Several collectives have been set up, many groups on social networks have been set up, bringing together thousands of people. A petition to the Senate reached over 100,000 signatures. This requirement, linked to the dignity of persons with disabilities, is widely echoed by our compatriots, who are committed to the values of our Republic, including equality. Indeed, they know the fight that people with disabilities have to fight on a daily basis to make themselves heard, but above all to live fully, simply. Accessibility of transport, adapted work, schooling of children, recognition of the rights vis-à-vis the administration: their struggle is difficult and sometimes exhausting. Exhausting, like this fight for the deconjugalization of the AAH. The citizens concerned face almost irrational opposition. We fluctuate between hope and disappointment as the text is placed on the Orders of the Day in the National Assembly or Senate. Alone against all, the Government seeks to exhaust the mobilization,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u477	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u478	...but hope and the struggle for justice are not so easily extinguished. If this text is not voted on today, it will be voted on tomorrow, because the bill is in the sense of the Republic, of a real citizenship allowed by a financial autonomy obtained by persons with disabilities, by work, or when it is not possible, Madam Secretary of State, by an allowance that really guarantees autonomy. How do you think you're right on your own? How can we see to this extent a compassionate system that violates the rights of persons with disabilities and locks them in their disability? Why, if that were the case, would all associations demand this measure?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u479	Indeed!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u480	Are they less well placed than we are to know what is good for people with disabilities? I don't think so. The hard work against this text is incomprehensible, except for pure reasons of cutbacks. Apart from belonging to a particular group, Members have indicated, in their personal capacity, that they agree with this text. If they support it, it is because they actually measure the dramatic effects of the current method of calculation. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] When a disabled person comes to you and wonders about a possible divorce to continue to receive his or her allowance, what do you say? When you are told about the price of love, to live hidden so as not to lose those few hundred euros, what do you answer? How can we respond to these tens of thousands of people who live with this sword of Damocles hanging above their heads? For our part, we respond by proposing financial autonomy through the individualization of the AAH, because it is a pragmatic, realistic response, built with the main people concerned. We do not do so, as you dared to say, Madam Secretary of State, in the run-up to the elections; What a poor argument! For the past four years, we have placed this text on the Orders of the Day, as part of our niches in the Assembly and the Senate, and for the past four years we have supported the texts of other groups on the same subject. We have heard all arguments against persons with disabilities to deny them this measure of justice. We have responded on a point-by-point basis, both politically and technically. Contrary to what you say, Madam Secretary of State, since the Senate rewritten the text, there are no more losers of this reform. We have demonstrated how the AAH was not a social minimum like any other and how deconjugation would not open any breach endangering our system of solidarity. Above all, dozens of testimonies from people benefiting from the AAH have shown the destructive consequences of the current method of calculation. This text reflects a choice of society. Support for this text is not to say that this measure will solve all the difficulties of people with disabilities; It is also not to say that during this quinquennium, nothing was done about disability. The ambition of this text, Madam Secretary of State, is to respond to a real need. It is profoundly innovative because it sets the stage for the individualization of rights, for the strengthening of national solidarity and for the elimination of family solidarity: in this case, it destroys more families than it builds. Yes, the current method of calculation violates the right to privacy. It is therefore paradoxical to mention family solidarity, because it is no longer exercised when the couple is no longer one, when the woman is a victim of grip, violence, and at the same time totally dependent on her spouse: the limits of family solidarity are striking. [[Applause on a few benches of the GDR group]] The lump-sum mechanism proposed by the Government and introduced in the Social Security Financing Act has the effect of increasing the benefit paid to a number of beneficiaries by €110. If we look forward to it for the people who will benefit from it, it must not hide the main and structural claim of this bill. The beneficiaries of the AAH, all those who support them, want genuine autonomy, and be considered as individuals in their own right. Disability is not shared, neither is the AAH. Beyond a financial question, it is a question of principle: what consideration for people with disabilities has our society? Tomorrow is International Day of Persons with Disabilities. Let me quote from the words of the Secretary-General of the United Nations: "I urge all countries to fully implement the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, to increase accessibility and to remove legal, social, economic and other obstacles, with the active participation of persons with disabilities and their representative organizations. This appeal is perfectly in line with our requirement because it removes a major legal obstacle to the autonomy of persons with disabilities. The UN Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities also denounced the current calculation of the AAH and called on France to put an end to it. The Human Rights Defender and the National Advisory Commission on Human Rights are calling for this measure. Let us collectively live up to these expectations. I remember the debates that took place here at the second reading of the text: the blocked vote, the repeated suspension of sittings, the Secretary of State explaining that the computer system did not allow the payment of the AAH to be individualised. All these arguments had been very misunderstood by our fellow citizens concerned and by our fellow citizens concerned. Let's not do this again! There is no – I believe – insurmountable opposition on this subject, nor any parliamentarians who have no heart: this is not the subject. In reality, there is a blockage, especially of a budgetary nature, even if it is dressed in technical or principle arguments: let us dare to lift it, so that this quinquennium marks a step forward. Ladies and gentlemen, outside this House, tens of thousands of AAH beneficiaries and their families are waiting for us to meet their needs, in practice, by deconjugating this allowance. Four years of debate, successive reports, led to a consolidated framework. It is time to conclude this long shuttle with a vote in accordance with the text of the Senate. More than fifteen years after the major law of 2005, under Jacques Chirac's presidency, we are given the opportunity to put the rights of persons with disabilities at the heart of public policies. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR, LR, SOC, FI and LT groups. – Mr Stéphane Peu, rapporteur, also applauds]] The red thread of this text is emancipation: putting the human at the heart, in our decision-making, is our will. To make this society a society that protects, that accompanies each and every one in their differences, is what we are committed to today. The GDR Group therefore calls on all Members to vote for this text so that it can be applied and to put an end to the too long waiting for people with disabilities who no longer want to choose between love and financial autonomy.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u481	Mrs Véronique Hammerer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u482	We are again meeting for the third reading of the bill tabled by Mrs Dubie. We have studied, worked on and debated this text. We will vote for it because it includes real progress, such as moving the benefit of the PCH from 60 to 65 years of age, or not taking into account the premiums paid to Paralympic athletes in calculating the allocation of the AHA. However, the Commission again opposed Article 3 aimed at deconjugating the AAH and, in the interests of consistency, rejected Article 3a providing for the creation of a transitional regime to compensate the losers for the individualisation of this benefit. Nor will the Group of the Republic on the move adopt the amendments to re-establish these articles. We are all on these benches concerned about this issue, which is related both to the general philosophy of our social model and to our policy towards people with disabilities. The deconjugation of the AAH alone represents the whole issue of the debate, between the demand for financial autonomy of the beneficiaries on the one hand, and our system of national solidarity on the other. If we individualize this social minimum, what will be the impact on our model of society,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u483	Same one!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u484	... today based on national and family solidarity? Similarly, what happens to accompanying beneficiaries? What happens to our project of an inclusive society?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u485	That's the point!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u486	We believe that the individualization of the AAH would call into question the whole of our social-fiscal system based, I insist, on family, marital and national solidarity.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u487	It's a joke! Stop digging your head!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u488	The AAH was established in 1975 to ensure decent living conditions for people with disabilities with the lowest resources. The AAH is therefore based on principles of fairness...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u489	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u490	... and burden-sharing between members of the household, unlike universal benefits. Individualization is a political, philosophical and technical issue that upsets our model of society. It transforms our relationship to the individual, to his financial autonomy, to his rights and to his duties.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u491	That is true, but we do not draw the same conclusions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u492	The measure you propose would aggravate the situation of all the beneficiaries of the AAH, while we owe them just and appropriate support, as the principle of national and family solidarity implies. The individualisation of this social minimum constitutes a societal risk, which would entail a profound transformation of our social protection system. Under the presidency of François Hollande, when the Sirugue report of 2016, entitled "Rethinking the Social Minimalities: Towards a Common Base Cover", was published, everyone seemed to agree with the conclusions of the report while he did not advocate deconjugalisation or even the revalorisation of the AAH amount. In addition, on October 24, 2018, in the Senate, during the debate on the bill introduced by Senator Laurence Cohen, to remove the inclusion of the spouse's income in the AAH's calculation basis, senators in the LR group, 145, voted against the deconjugalization of the AAH.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u493	Don't scream!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u494	We're in the National Assembly here, not in the Senate!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u495	[[Mr. Aurélien Pradie protested]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, let me ask myself about the real meaning of this text, just a few months from a presidential election.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u496	Oh, there! How small!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u497	It's a shame!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u498	And Macron, isn't he in the election campaign right now?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u499	However, focusing on this political issue alone would obscure the substance of the discussion. We can still debate it for hours, as we have done in recent months, but I would like to remind you that we are, conceptually, philosophically, in disagreement with deconjugalization.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u500	You are against autonomy, therefore, against associations!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u501	[[Mrs Caroline Fiat protested]] Our values – we have defended them for four years, and we will continue to do so – are always oriented towards the person, towards his place in society, towards his insertion, as far as possible, by leaving no one at the edge of the road.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u502	Easy, don't point a finger!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u503	However, some projects, such as the PCH project, should be advanced, which is a real lever for the autonomy of persons with disabilities.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u504	We have never heard the sound of your voice in this House!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u505	We remain firmly committed to the preservation of our social protection system, based on family and national solidarity.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u506	You are against the autonomy of people with disabilities!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u507	That is why we will not vote on Articles 3 and 3 bis, even if we will vote in favour of the whole bill. (Laughter on the benches of the GDR group. – Plauds on a few benches of the LaREM group.)
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u508	You think we're bells? You remove the essentials of the text and say that you vote for it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u509	It's a political maneuver in the middle of a presidential campaign!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u510	Mr Aurélien Pradié has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u511	We won't let go. No, we won't let go. A few weeks ago, in this Chamber, we made the promise that we would not abandon anything from our struggle for the dignity and autonomy of women and men with disabilities. We will not let go of this battle for the individualization of the AAH. We will not let go of these hundreds of thousands of women and men who have been waiting for a lot of us and who have been deeply wounded for months. We will not let go of the associations, which unanimously call for the adoption of this law. We will not let go of a fight that goes beyond political divisions. The day before yesterday, the group of the Democratic and Republican Left, around Marie-George Buffet, the group Liberté et territoires, around Jeanine Dubié, yesterday the group Les Républicains, today, again, the group GDR, around Stéphane Peu: rarely a bill has so much gathered together. It is a force that no government should be able to ignore. We won't let go. We will not let go of the political stubbornness of the Government and the majority. Your stubbornness not to hear has become incomprehensible, contemptuous and brutal. We will not let go of a government that replaces beliefs and principles with hollow words and cold arguments from small technocrats. No, we won't let go. As long as the dignity of our most fragile fellow citizens is in question, we will not let go. Ladies and gentlemen, why are we here? We are here to advance justice and dignity. We are here to correct what needs to be corrected and which has become humiliating for millions of our fellow citizens affected by the fatality of disability. To those who think that the evolution of the AAH is only a technical question, I mean that dignity is not bought and does not adjust. It is not a matter of a tax measure, nor of a marginal increase in the amount of a resource.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u512	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u513	No, dignity is a matter of principle, sometimes even of republican principle. To understand what dignity is, you have to listen to people with disabilities themselves. We need to listen to women and men with disabilities. They tell us that the conjugalization of the AAH is an attack on their autonomy, that conditioning their survival resource to the income of their spouse is a violent injustice, but also that they must choose between living a love, a life of marriage, and maintaining their subsistence resource. [[Applause on the SOC, FI and GDR benches. – Mrs Jeanine Dubié and Mr Stéphane Peu, rapporteurs, also applaud]] They tell us that they pay a price for love that we do not accept for any other of our fellow citizens, that they do not do alms, that they do not ask for a favor, a tax gift, no: they ask for dignity, which requires the individualization of this allowance. They tell us that we have already waited too long, that all the European institutions have pointed a finger at France, reminding it to order because it does not respect its international commitments and human rights.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u514	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u515	They tell us that they do not understand the stubbornness of the Government to say no, to refuse, to block, to prevent a law which, however, is wanted by all. It is time to question the – iniquitous – social minimum status of the AAH, and to consider this allowance above all as an individual income of existence for persons with disabilities. You, Madam Secretary of State and the majority, are trying to justify yourself by means of two arguments: the cost of the measure and the concept of a family home. I am not going back to the question of cost, because this argument is indecent, even though you have been stacking billions of euros in expenditure for several months to water the country. [[Mrs Marie-George Buffet acquiesce]] As for the concept of a family home, it is inaudible when one knows the daily effort that disability already entails in a family: adding to it a duty of financial dependence is absolutely shameful. As for the so-called losers of the reform, you are well aware that this is only a matter of adjustment, which the transitional regime contained in the bill will allow. The only answer is deconjugalization. The desire to make the AAH a deconjugalized service was expressed by 100,000 citizens, by petition and by both Houses of Parliament. Obstruction of such an expression of wills, endowed with the most sovereign legitimacy, is evidence of indecent obstinacy and abyssal disconnection. [[Applause on the SOC, LT, GDR and FI benches]] Understand that this injustice is unbearable. Listen to the country, citizens, associations, parliamentarians from all sides. Get out of your sterile little postures. Remember why we, the deputies of the nation, are here to advance dignity and justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u516	Mr. Nicolas Turquois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u517	Madam rapporteur, Mr rapporteur, I am deeply convinced of the sincerity of your commitments with regard to disability and it is in the honour of the GDR Group to allow you, Mrs Dubie, to continue to defend your proposal for a law. But, in our view, your approach, because it supports the individualization of the allowance for adults with disabilities, is not the right one. First, and as I said here a few weeks ago, the individualization of the AAH can de facto lead to the individualization of many other social benefits; The consequences would amount to tens of billions of euros. It is a choice that you have the right to defend, especially as we approach the presidential election, but it is not ours. Then, and above all, your approach is synonymous with giving up public action. Let us not hide behind our little finger: the treatment of disability requires colossal means, at the level of the stakes to which it refers. I believe that the Government, thanks to the action of Sophie Cluzel, has responded massively to the need in this area...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u518	That's not what the associations think!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u519	... by increasing the budget allocated to it by more than 17% over the duration of the quinquennium. Provisions were also adopted to make the allocation of the AAH more fair, to the benefit of the most modest, with the application of a flat-rate reduction of 5000 euros on the income of the non-recipient spouse. But the individualisation of the allowance for adults with disabilities would mobilise a great deal of public money and we know that, through the use of communicating vessels, the adoption of the measure would reduce the means devoted, for example, to the development of specialized institutions, to inclusive housing, to the accompaniment in the work of persons with disabilities, and I am moving on.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u520	Oh!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u521	[[Protests on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] I even find it surprising, given its political history, that the GDR Group is defending an approach of this kind, individualist or even individualist.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u522	It's a gutter argument, it sucks!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u523	We defend the autonomy of people with disabilities!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u524	For our part, in the majority, we are clearly advocating collective action to address the issue of disability. Even yesterday, one person explained to me how relief had been given to not having to declare his disability every five years. But for a breakthrough like this, how much still remains to be achieved, otherwise more expensive? For example, with regard to the employment of persons with disabilities, do you have in mind the provisions that were adopted during the committee review of Bill 3DS to remove a number of barriers in this area?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u525	The text has not yet been adopted! We're not talking about it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u526	We have thus adopted automatic recognition of the status of disabled worker of young people over 16 years of age in vocational integration, in order to considerably simplify their access to the professional world. Very concretely, since the young person will benefit from the allowance for adults with disabilities, from the disability compensation benefit or from a personalized school education project, he will not need to apply to the departmental house for disabled persons (MDPH) to educate his RQTH; This is often a lengthy procedure, whereas the individual concerned is already known to the services of the CDMH.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u527	These young people are uncomfortable! You're only developing arroguties!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u528	At the same time, we want to open up the possibility of combining part-time work in ESAT and part-time work in an ordinary environment, without the need to go back to the CDMH. The objective is to facilitate a gradual transition from the protected to the ordinary environment. At the same time, the return to ESAT, in case of failure of insertion into the ordinary environment, must be facilitated. It is not acceptable for a person who has had the courage to take steps to integrate into an appropriate or ordinary environment to be forced, in the event of failure, to return to zero in order to obtain a place in ESAT. For those who wish to do so, the ESAT must be a barrier to access to ordinary employment. Although we are only at the beginning of the review of Bill 3DS, I am confident that these provisions will be passed. It is nothing very visible, nothing very media: such measures are simply the result of an ant work, effective, which wants to give ordinary solutions to thousands of extraordinary people. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group and on some benches of the LaREM group]] Ladies and gentlemen, I am deeply convinced that, with regard to disability, collective action must take precedence; That is why the Group of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and Related Democrats is against this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u529	Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u530	For the third time since 2019, we are back to look at a text proposing the de-judgment of the allowance for adults with disabilities. Once again, we have to debate a bill of solidarity and humanity, which honours our assembly – and I welcome the GDR Group, which wished to put it on the agenda of its own-initiative day – and which contains much-needed social justice provisions. [[Ms. Karine Lebon applauds]] I was listening last week on one of our public service radio stations, like some of you may be, to an adversarial debate between a defender of this text and a Member of Parliament for the majority. I really wondered how you could stay so deaf to the words of the people who were questioning you, how could you, with such certainty and stubbornness, challenge the evidences that are ejaculating this debate? Let's remember: AAH is not a gift from the state. It constitutes a social minimum paid under conditions and differentially, and it is the total income of a household that governs the calculation of its amount. In concrete terms, with regard to the conditions for the allocation and calculation of this allowance, national solidarity is now taking place after family solidarity. It is a benefit whose aim is to compensate for the fact that people are separated from employment because of their disability: it is paid as a substitute for wages. It was a considerable step forward in 1975; Since then, half a century has passed and the accidents of life that have broken or weakened existences have unfortunately not disappeared. Yet, since 2019, despite numerous attempts by the Senate and the various groups of the Assembly to redress the injustice of its method of calculation, nothing has moved, or so little. The current situation is obviously unfair and regrettable, for several reasons: the AAH must respond to the sustainability or even irreversible nature of the disability; and yet, the financial autonomy of persons with disabilities who benefit from it remains largely dependent on the income of their home. How can we imagine that we could be dependent on our spouse or even on our children to live, to flourish, to insert ourselves? No one would accept it. So, in the name of what obtuse principle do we ask those of our fellow citizens who are most vulnerable by the existence of accepting it? There is no question here of miserabilism, Madam Secretary of State, but of rights and independence.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u531	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u532	Money is a means of achieving this, and sometimes the difficulties of life do not give us all the same chances; It is at this moment that the State must take its part. The AAH is now insufficient; Thus, one quarter of its beneficiaries live below the poverty line, and the average income of persons with disabilities is EUR 200 per month lower than that of valid persons. So yes, the Government upgraded it in 2018 and 2019, but at the same time lowered the resource ceiling for couples. Finally, 100,000 beneficiaries came out of the scheme! This "at the same time" is therefore a real regression. The individualisation of the AAH is a long-standing demand of associations, the first persons concerned, women and men who have to live on less than 1000 euros per month. The health and economic crisis has only strengthened the need to respond humbly to a situation that is no longer sustainable. Would the "whatever it costs" so much boasting, possible for companies, not be so for people with disabilities? The present bill therefore goes back to the modalities for calculating and allocating the AAH, by removing the inclusion of the spouse's income in his calculation as well as in his cap, which will allow the beneficiaries to be fully independent and autonomous. Of course, we are thinking of women who are victims of domestic violence, who, for lack of independence, cannot sometimes leave their family home because, economically, they would not survive. According to the Directorate of Research, Studies, Evaluation and Statistics (DREES) of the social ministries, the deconjugalisation of the AAH would bring the number of winning households to 196000, for an average gain of 300 euros per month. Such a profit is not a miraculous gain; It is a meagre effort that we earnestly call for, in order to restore dignity to the women and men concerned. In this sense, we will defend an amendment aimed at re-establishing the deleted article in committee. Of course, the change could have been brutal and led to losing households, but a transition would have been preserved by Article 3a, which maintained the benefit of the allowance for adults with disabilities until 2031 according to the existing arrangements. We will naturally defend an amendment aimed at re-establishing it, in line with the desired re-establishment of Article 3. Finally, in the final hope of persuading you, how can we not mention the National Consultative Commission on Human Rights, for whom the persistence of the current method of calculation runs counter to the principles of the International Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities (ICPD), with regard to respect for their dignity and autonomy, or their right to found a family or to live as a couple, as the rapporteurs recalled? I would also mention the Defender of Rights, who pointed out "the obstacles to a couple's life linked to the conditions of allocation of the AAH", which penalize persons with disabilities wishing to start a family. [[Applause on several benches in the GDR group. – Mrs Jeanine Dubié and Mr Stéphane Peu, rapporteurs, also applaud]] You say that deconjugalization would not be beneficial in the field of social justice; We say it would open a breach in an ocean of injustice. Definitely, we disagree. We will therefore vote with conviction in favour of the text, in favour of more social justice and equity between citizens, in favour of a right to a free and chosen love and emotional life.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u533	Mrs Agnès Firmin Le Bodo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u534	This afternoon, at third reading, we are considering the bill defended by our colleagues Jeanine Dubié and Stéphane Peu, carrying out various measures of social justice. First of all, I would like to thank the members of the GDR Group for having included this text a second time in their parliamentary niche. From the original bill, reported by our colleague Yannick Favennec-Becot at first reading, there remains only one flagship measure: that which provides for the deconjugalisation of the allowance for adults with disabilities, known as the AAH. Currently, the spouse's income is taken into account in the calculation of the AAH, after a 20 per cent discount. This implies that a beneficiary, if he or she settles in a couple with a person whose net income exceeds EUR 1020 per month, i.e. a level below the SMIC, loses his or her allowance at full rate. The level of its AAH then gradually declines according to the income of its partner, before extinguishing if it gains more than 2270 euros. [[Marie-George Buffet applauds]] If this is not the price of love, it is in any case the price of loss of autonomy. We cannot be satisfied with such a method of calculation because it tends to lock people with disabilities who decide to form a family into dependency and poverty. This situation is also likely to fuel and increase the risk of domestic violence and influence, when it is also known that women with disabilities are more exposed to abuse and violence than others. Guaranteeing them a minimum of subsistence through a full-rate HFA, regardless of their marital status, also means providing these women with the means to get out of their ordeal. The argument that the AAH would be a social minimum like another and should therefore be understood in terms of the household's income does not convince us. The group takes the view that it constitutes a social benefit, the aim of which is to respond to a lasting inability to access employment and not to a temporary social vulnerability. Its purpose is therefore to ensure the emancipation of the person who benefits from it, regardless of his or her marital status. If the text that we had adopted at first reading included a number of side effects – it would have affected some 40,000 beneficiaries who work and are in partnership with an inactive person – the Senate has judiciously enriched the bill with an article 3 bis that introduces a transitional mechanism to ensure that there are no losers. We regret the choice made in committee to delete the remaining Articles 3 and 3 bis. Last June, the Assembly adopted the bill by replacing the deconjugation with a flat-rate reduction of 5000 euros on the spouse's income, replacing the 20% proportional reduction that applies today. This measure has since been incorporated into the 2022 Finance Bill, which we will be considering for final reading in two weeks' time. If this scenario were used, the income level of the spouse from which the beneficiary would lose his or her allowance at full rate would increase from EUR 1020 to EUR 1270 net monthly; the threshold of extinction would remain the same, at 2270 euros. The solution proposed by the Government is of course preferable to the current situation, but it does not meet the desire for financial autonomy expressed by persons with disabilities. It will make it possible to take less account of the spouse's income, but it is not deconjugalization. The situation of economic dependence will remain the same for many of the people concerned. In view of the EUR 11 billion allocated each year for this social benefit, the additional EUR 700 million that deconjugation would cost are certainly an important sum, but we believe that the issues of autonomy and social justice that it entails deserve a national solidarity effort of this magnitude. I would also like to point out that it is our majority, at the initiative of the Government, that substantially re-aligned the amount of the AAH, increasing it from 810 euros in 2017 to 903 euros today, at a total cost of 2 billion euros. The additional effort that we wish to make in this bill therefore represents one third of what has already been accomplished. Madam Secretary of State, I welcome your work and your commitment, since 2017, to improve the lives of people with disabilities. But on this subject, we have a point of divergence; it has been documented since 2017. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group. – Ms Jeanine Dubié and Mr Stéphane Peu, rapporteurs, Ms Albane Gaillot and Mr Paul Molac also applaud]] Ladies and gentlemen, for all these reasons, as you will have understood, the Group of the European People's Party remains very much in favour of the individualisation of the AAH, both in its method of calculation and in its capping. On the eve of the International Day of Persons with Disabilities, we will therefore vote, with consistency and conviction, in favour of the bill as it came back to us from the Senate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u535	Mr Yannick Favennec-Becot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u536	In the preamble, let me warmly welcome the determination and pugnacity of our colleague Jeanine Dubie, who has been working for several years now on the subject of disability and who, until the last day of the legislature, I know, will be keen to bring to fruition the bill on various measures of social justice. We will help her: she will not let go, but neither will we! I would also like to thank the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left, on behalf of the IDU and Independent Group, for having included in its reserved day this bill, which has not yet come from its ranks. That is his determination to finally end the injustice associated with the conjugalization of the AAH. The subject we are considering tonight is not unknown to me, since I was fortunate and honoured to be the rapporteur of the text at first reading. The single purpose of the allowance for adults with disabilities is to ensure the financial autonomy of persons with disabilities. Its first objective is autonomy. But let us be realistic: with 900 euros per month, people who benefit from it unfortunately still live below the poverty line. To recall that autonomy is at the heart of the AAH, our group would have liked us to add the A of autonomy in the name of this allocation. In this way, we would refer to the AAAH as "the allowance for the autonomy of adults with disabilities". This acronym would have the merit of recalling, whenever it is pronounced, the objective to be achieved. Of course, the Government did not stand by and of course we supported the increase in the AAH amount up to 900 euros, but let us be honest to recognize that all successive majorities have accompanied this development. The subject that brings us together is the autonomy of people with disabilities: it must remain our compass, in accordance with the will of President Valéry Giscard d'Estaing when he created the AAH in 1975. Rather than making a fuss about the nature of the service, from which a particular system would arise, the only question we need to ask ourselves is whether the system promotes, yes or no, the autonomy of persons with disabilities. Clearly, the conjugalization of the AAH demonstrates the opposite. Living in a household, founding a family, is a powerful vehicle of autonomy, but the State takes advantage of it to base the financial autonomy of the person with a disability, no longer on the State budget, but on the income of the spouse. In other words, the refusal to de-judgment of the HFA is tantamount to a new non-arm's length relationship, tied to the spouse's income.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u537	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u538	The Government and the majority insist on refusing deconjugalization. A tax reduction was passed in the first part of the draft finance bill for 2022, but this measure benefits less than half of the persons concerned and does not call into question the principle of maritalization of the allowance. You refuse deconjugalization while everyone asks for it and you introduce a tax allowance that no one really wants. However, ambitious targets had been set at the National Disability Conference in February 2020. The President of the Republic then wished to "continue on the path of a dignified allowance for all persons with disabilities" and to open up "new rights for persons with disabilities: the right to marry, to pacse, to divorce". However, many persons with disabilities simply give up their marriage or pacing for fear of a reduction in the amount of their allowance.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u539	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u540	The conjugalization of the AAH leads to renounce happiness, to choose between the heart and the wallet. It is not only oppositions that demand deconjugalization. A large number of associations of persons with disabilities, as well as the Ombudsman and the National Advisory Commission on Human Rights, request this. The UN Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities also urges you, the Secretary of State, in her report of 14 September, to deconjugate by reforming the "regulation of the adult disability allowance in order to separate the income of persons with disabilities from that of their spouse". It is high time, Madam Secretary of State, that you listened to oppositions, associations, counter-powers and the United Nations! [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups. – Mrs Jeanine Dubié and Mr Stéphane Peu, rapporteurs, also applaud]] Convinced of the considerable gain that would be achieved by deconjugating the AAH for the autonomy of persons with disabilities, the IDU and independent group will vote for this text as in previous readings.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u541	Mr Paul Molac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u542	We now come together again to discuss the allowance for adults with disabilities on the occasion of the third reading of the bill on various measures of social justice of our colleague Jeanine Dubie, whose determination, courage and tenacity I welcome. On behalf of the Libertés et Territoires Group, I warmly thank our colleagues in the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left for including this text in their parliamentary niche. I regret that a Joint Joint Committee could not be convened by the President of the Assembly despite the joint request made by six groups. We are therefore considering this text at third reading, and I fear, unfortunately, that the majority will not be prepared to adopt the Senate version. Like many of our colleagues here, I am particularly committed to deconjugating the allowance for adults with disabilities. This is a legitimate demand and common sense, since it no longer links the calculation of the benefit received by the beneficiaries to the income of their spouse. Nearly 200,000 people today suffer the injustice of the marriage of the AAH, which undermines their dignity: deprived of access to employment, they are unable to support themselves. In the current state of the scheme, the income of the couple decreases when one of the two becomes disabled. What was heard from the Government and the majority about this measure in previous readings of the text: that the introduction of deconjugalization could not be applied because of computer difficulties; that the AAH would be a social minimum and that the principle of conjugalization, linked to our social model, should therefore prevail! In the Liberties and Territories Group, we do not see things like this. We believe that, like the PCH, the AAH is a social benefit designed to guarantee the autonomy and dignity of persons with disabilities. I repeat here: the key words of our debate are autonomy and dignity. Failure to understand this aspect inevitably amounts to mistaken solutions. We are now exasperated because we do not understand the principled opposition of the Government and the majority to deconjugalization. They justify their refusal only by financial questions, although the measure is defended, let us recall, by all opposition groups, but also by all associations supporting persons with disabilities. Beyond our trans-party mobilization, all civil society has also mobilized in favour of the bill. After the adoption of the bill at first reading, against the Government's opinion on 13 February 2020, the petition launched on the Senate site by Mrs. Véronique Tixier, resident of Puy-de-Dôme, quickly reached the threshold of 100,000 signatures. This petition for the financial autonomy of persons with disabilities is the first to have reached the required number of signatures for consideration by the Senate. The conjugalized method of calculation of the AAH leads to aberrations, as explained to me several people who came to meet me in my permanence. Some give up marriage so as not to deprive themselves of a significant part of their income. Moreover, an individual's financial dependence on his or her spouse favours domestic violence. While the Government had introduced a flat-rate reduction of 5000 euros on the spouse's income in the draft finance bill for 2022, that provision could not replace a genuine individualization of the allowance, promoting the autonomy and dignity of persons with disabilities. The Libertés et Territoires Group reiterates its wish for the bill to be adopted in accordance with its version of the Senate in order to put an end to the injustice suffered by persons with disabilities. We cannot afford to prolong this situation: the bill must come into force as soon as possible. It should be recalled that the postponement of its adoption will delay the application of already adopted articles. I am thinking in particular of Article 4, which raises the age at which it is possible to benefit from the PCH from 60 to at least 65 years. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group. – Mrs Jeanine Dubié and Mr Stéphane Peu, rapporteurs, also applaud]] For all these reasons, our group will vote in favour of the amendments to restore the deleted articles in committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u543	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u544	We are meeting again in this Chamber to discuss the deconjugation of the AAH. What a legislative path this bill takes! It is now back in third reading in the Assembly as part of the Communist niche. I thank our colleagues for their perseverance and the political groups that, like France, have tried, by way of amendments or a bill, to get the AAH deconjugated – I am thinking of Aurélien Pradié, of the Group of the Republicans, and, of course, of our colleague Jeanine Dubié. Each of us agrees: we will have debated at length the deconjugalization of the AAH during the parliamentary term. At the risk of repeating myself, I will repeat once again the reasons why we are defending this measure. First of all, deconjugalisation is necessary to guarantee the autonomy of persons with disabilities. The allowance is paid beyond a certain degree of disability which does not provide sufficient resources related to his work. The fact of being a couple does not mean the end of this singularity. A person with a disability must therefore be able to maintain his or her financial autonomy. Secondly, national solidarity must prevail over family solidarity, in particular in order to combat domestic violence and support the emancipation of women. Taking into account the spouse's income creates a dependency relationship within the home, which particularly affects women. Remember that we are talking about people in total or partial inability to work! We are of course in favour of persons with disabilities being employed, but they are, in fact, for the vast majority of them, far removed from work. It should also be noted that financial dependence is responsible for situations of abuse and violence. Women with disabilities are particularly vulnerable to domestic violence. It is estimated that 34 per cent of women suffer violence from their partners, compared with 19 per cent of women without disabilities. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups. – Mrs Jeanine Dubié and Mr Stéphane Peu, rapporteurs, as well as Mrs Albane Gaillot also applaud]] Finally, this measure certainly has a cost, but how much do you estimate the defence of equality and respect for people with disabilities, especially women, Madam Secretary of State? The estimate of the cost of deconjugalization has steadily increased over the course of the readings of the bill. In 2018, you announced an annual cost of 360 million euros. It would be 560 million euros according to the last report of the Senate and 730 million now for the Government! Whatever the Government's estimates and overbidding, the price of social justice for persons with disabilities does not appear to be excessively high compared to the billions of euros of exemptions provided for businesses. So there's no need to hide behind this argument. In short, to support the bill is to affirm the principles of the autonomy of persons with disabilities and of non-discrimination by allowing them to marry or pacternate without being penalized. To support the text is to respect the principle of equality between individuals and to support the fight against domestic violence by refusing to introduce situations of financial dependence suffered within the couple. I heard yesterday in the press that President Castaner was trying to mobilise his troops to oppose this text in the House. I would like to point out that the main objective of the programme on political life, for which our colleagues in the Group of the European People's Party The running Republic was elected: "A political staff representing the French. The vast majority of French and French people are plebisciteing this measure. It is also a unanimous and historic request of all associations of persons with disabilities.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u545	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u546	Colleagues, you have the freedom to bend to an iniquitous choice or to decide in your soul and conscience to vote for a fair measure. For our part, we will support this bill to the end and defend an amendment to consider re-evaluation of the AAH at the SMIC level for persons with disabilities who are in total inability to work. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups. – Mrs Jeanine Dubié and Mr Stéphane Peu, rapporteurs, also applaud]] We know how difficult it is for the various opposition parliamentary groups to have bills reviewed. Between October of this year and February 2022, 110 days will be devoted to the examination of government or majority texts, compared with only one day for opposition groups. So, when a bill supported by all opposition groups succeeds in setting a course in the various parliamentary niches, in overcoming the traps of the executive, in satisfying a very strong demand from society, we are witnessing a glimmer of democracy in this Chamber – brief, stealthy, but intense. Let's definitely vote for this beautiful text! On the eve of the International Day of Persons with Disabilities, let us seize this wonderful opportunity.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u547	The general discussion is closed. Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-02-O1082.u548	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one thirty: Further discussion of the proposed law on various social justice measures; Discussion of the proposal for a European resolution on the financing of the ecological transition; Discussion of the draft law guaranteeing the free choice of municipalities in the management of water and sanitation skills; Discussion of the proposal for an organic law for the protection of common property and the proposal for a law creating a legal status for common property. The meeting is adjourned.
