ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1185.u1	The next item is the debate on how to address the effects of the covid-19 epidemic on youth. The Conference of Presidents decided to organize this debate in two parts: first, we will hear the speakers of the groups, then the Government, and then we will carry out a sequence of questions and answers. Mr Pierre-Henri Dumont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1185.u2	"I have been taken from all forms of hope in the future. I threw myself out of the window faster. The Minister of Higher Education, Research and Innovation, the Secretary of State for Youth and Engagement, listen to these icy accounts of the youth of France. They are not brought to you by influencers coming back from their vacation in Dubai to participate in a vast government communication operation, but by real young people with whom I have exchanged; They echo what everyone here hears in our respective constituencies. This distress is the result of the abandonment of youth by the Government and the majority for the past year. A hungry youth, who have to queue for hours in front of the centres for distribution of basic necessities, distributions organized by associations and student unions which have had to replace the omnipotent but incapable state, to the point of letting die of hunger the one that is its future, covering themselves with shame every day a little more; a lonely and isolated youth, engulfed in an endless day, whose only daily purpose is to turn on his computer until curfew time rings; a desperate youth, realizing with fear that she will be the first generation not to fulfill the old French dream of living better than her parents, for you have condemned her; a young person whom you assign at home, making him pay a psychological, financial and school tribute inversely proportional to the health risk that weighs on her.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1185.u3	Alas.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1185.u4	The outcome of your policy for young people in France since the beginning of the crisis has been dramatic: 56% of students find it difficult to obtain basic necessities; 25% are unable to feed themselves to their hunger; 23% had to give up consulting a doctor, and they are in the same proportion having had suicidal thoughts in recent months. Of the million students who worked in parallel with their studies yesterday, 58% saw their activity decline and 36% lost this income supplement completely. You are, Madam Minister, Madam Secretary of State, guilty of unhelpful generation sacrifice, and history will remember that your response to the unprecedented distress of our youth was to invite youtubes to the Elysée so that they twerk on TikTok. One year after the start of the crisis, you finally wake up and multiply the ads. At least this debate called for by the Republicans, complementary to our work on the fight against poverty, has had this merit. But you are too little and too late, always seeking to counter the consequences of the crisis rather than to face its causes. While 73% of the 1.7 million students report having been assigned psychologically, emotionally or physically, your "Psych cheques" have only affected 5,000 of them. You will never be able to accompany those who need it most, for lack of psychologists directly on campus. What the students ask, Madam Minister, Madam Secretary of State, are amphis, not shrinks! Universities must reopen, not just for the master classes, which are the easy solution, but especially for the TDs – directed works – where socialization takes place; by testing the students concerned massively, every week, thanks to salivary tests. In addition, a recent Financial Times survey shows that of the 1.1 million vaccines already delivered by AstraZeneca to France, only 200,000 doses have been administered. Would these doses not be more useful in the students' deltoids than in the ARS refrigerators, if they allowed our youth to find a semblance of social life? Higher education is not limited to courses; It also extends beyond classrooms – whether virtual or real – to these moments of exchange and conviviality essential to everyone. Why don't you take an example on Austria, where cafes open their doors especially to students so that they can review them in small groups? Why don't you propose to universities to banish one day of classes so that students can get out of the air or do sport – a decision that is all the more urgent as local confinements advance on the weekend? Why is the Government not working on the reopening of some museums over a day, which would then be for young people and students only? In addition to the psychological precariousness, there is a financial precariousness. As early as April 2020, I would alert you, Madam Minister, through a letter on the urgency of providing a compensation mechanism for the hundreds of thousands of students who are deprived of all or part of their work and of the income that goes with it, drawing your attention particularly to middle-class youth, those whose parents are not poor enough to receive scholarships, but not rich enough to allow their children to study without working. I proposed a simple mechanism: to pay students who had worked the previous school year the equivalent of their entire income in the form of monthly help, so as not to plunge them into precariousness.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1185.u5	Excellent proposal!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1185.u6	This system ensured that only those who had made the effort to work would benefit from the solidarity of the State, without discrimination. You have not, Madam Minister, even had the politeness to respond to this letter sent by a Member of the National Assembly, just as you do not have the decency to meet the expectations of millions of young French people. It's not too late to take this idea back to your account. It is also not too late to allow local authorities to create, with the support of the State, thousands of student jobs for the duration of the health crisis, to employ young people in support of vaccination centres, in communal or intercommunal centres for social action, in isolated elderly people, at home or by telephone. The possibilities are immense, but your will is weak. It is not too late, finally, to accompany the 700000 young people who will enter the labour market in the coming months by putting in place 300,000 jobs for the nation, supported by the state on the model of partial unemployment, replacing for a year the jobs destroyed, allowing to avoid the shift of these young workers into poverty, while avoiding the risk of a young RSA that locks up instead of emancipating. This measure in the non-market sector will have to be accompanied by an additional strong measure allowing businesses in the market sector to hire young people without any burden other than wages. For this crisis has a perverse effect: it reinforces social determinism in dramatic proportions. Only work will make it possible for young people to get rid of their social condition. The courses available, as well as the alternations, are reduced as a skin of grief; Therefore, they become reserved for an elite, the one who has the networks necessary to obtain the internship or alternation necessary for the validation of his diploma,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1185.u7	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1185.u8	... obliging ill-born students to take a forced sabbatical year, to reorient themselves to an unwanted field or to reach the labour market without training other than theoretical, thus with less employability. Just as your lunch baskets to a euro do not prevent the food insecurity of students, as the offer is unevenly distributed across the territory and largely undersized compared to the number of beneficiaries, the digital platform of 30,000 internship proposals will not allow to meet all the demands, far from it. You must, Madam Minister, the Secretary of State, temporarily but urgently liberalize internship opportunities, for example by increasing the number of internship contracts allowed in companies while reducing the waiting period between two trainees on the same job. The same logic must apply to apprenticeship contracts, for which a territorialised database launched by local elected representatives, linked to life-pool enterprises and financially supported by the State, would further develop apprenticeships linked to the regions, in particular for occupations under stress where job offers remain unfilled, which would also help to combat the financial precariousness of young people. Madam Minister, Madam Secretary of State, the young people of France are desperately calling for help. Locked in a devastating routine, seeing her future escape, she can no longer satisfy herself with your ads and hastily thought devices on a corner of the table, without coherence or real utility on the ground. On this youth lies the future of our country, and the Government must be aware of it, seriously and urgently. Abandoning the youth of 2021 means abandoning tomorrow's France. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Madam Minister, Madam Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, young people in France can no longer afford the luxury of being sacrificed as it is today because of your guilty inaction. Our youth deserves better than your silence or your communication effects. It is about the survival and the very future of thousands of young French people, therefore the future of our country. On behalf of all young people, act!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1185.u9	That's what's said and well said!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1185.u10	Mrs Maud Petit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1185.u11	The Group of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats welcomes this exchange time, which aims to address ways to address the effects of the covid-19 epidemic on young people, who are severely affected by the crisis. This generation is counting on us more than ever and, in adversity, we must give it the means and opportunities to live its youth fully. To do this, we must involve him in our work. The crisis highlighted the work and countless individual or collective initiatives taken by young people and the associations of which they are members. Last July, the committee of inquiry to measure and prevent the effects of the covid-19 crisis on children and youth was set up, chaired by our colleague Sandrine Mörch. I was the vice-president. After four months of work, eighty hours of hearings, the finding is overwhelming and alarming: young people have suffered a severe economic precarisation, significant isolation and a series of breaks, academic, emotional and psychological. The report shows that more than 50 per cent of young people are concerned about their mental health, that 30 per cent have given up access to care because of lack of resources, that one in six have dropped out of school after the crisis and that 43 per cent of non-qualified people do not even have access to the Internet. In conclusion, the crisis has weakened an already vulnerable audience. Containment has also increased the violence suffered. According to figures from the Ministry of the Interior, 9% more complaints were registered in 2020 compared to 2019 for domestic violence. In view of this, I will concentrate on the psychological difficulties and violence experienced by young people as a whole. The crisis will have brought to light the bitterness of these situations, allowing us to take strong measures to combat the problems it aggravates. Psychological health is a major issue in the long term, and the health crisis has proved to be conducive to the emergence and aggravation of psychological disorders: desynchronized biological rhythms, sleep disorders, self-absorbing, anxiety and, tragically, increased suicide attempts among those under fifteen years of age.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1185.u12	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1185.u13	Health and childhood professionals alert us to the long-term medical consequences; We must take them into account now that we measure the extent of it. Thus, the commission of inquiry recommends increasing the number of child psychiatrists by creating new posts and by valuing the speciality of child psychiatristry in the training courses to strengthen its attractiveness among students. Developing the capacity of psychiatric services for children in the hospital must also be considered. The Dem Group simply considers that the psychological health of the young public and its care must be regarded as a national health priority, and will make a proposal to this effect. Regarding violence against children, it is important to recall the great mobilization around 119: awareness campaign during confinement to encourage the general public to act in the fight against domestic violence, increase of the human resources of the platform, strong mobilization of all the actors of the children... Let us also remember the plan to combat violence against children as early as 2019. The Dem Group believes that additional resources should be made available today to prevent such violence, listen to and support families. The explosion of digital violence is another point of vigilance. Cyber-harassment was particularly important during confinements; The Committee of Inquiry therefore recommends that children and young adults and their families should be made aware of the rational use of digital tools and the Internet. We are also thinking of the overseas youth, for whom this pandemic is an additional test, since it has aggravated its isolation. In this regard, we should welcome the mobilisation and work of the interministerial delegation on equal opportunities for the French overseas and the visibility of the overseas countries and territories. Through the platform www.overseassolidaires.gouv.fr, she offered students from these territories who were away from their families a care for the cost of their return as early as April 2020, to their great relief. Finally, we welcome the many measures to support students. Among these, we can mention the extension of the price to 1 euro of the meals of the CROUS – regional centers of academic and academic works – to all students,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1185.u14	That's not enough!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1185.u15	... accompaniment to digital equipment, exceptional aids for ultramarine students and those who have lost a job or internship, exceptional aid for solidarity, extension of the guarantee scheme for young people, within the framework of the plan "1 young person 1 solution". [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group and on several benches of the LaREM group]] This pandemic places the rights of children and youth at the heart of our political and public action. The actions will continue in collaboration – I hope so in any case – with the young people themselves, and with all the actors working to make children's rights a priority in our country. Its future depends on our decisions today.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1185.u16	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1185.u17	At her request, I am replacing Mrs Michèle Victory, your colleague from the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education; So these words are first of all his own. For many months, the health crisis has saved no one; the effects of the covid-19 epidemic are numerous and we can only see the ill-being that is taking hold of our youth. However, it demonstrates its ability to mobilize individually or collectively; It shows every day that it is not shot down, that it proposes, that it takes initiatives, that it is in solidarity. We have a promise to keep to her. However, for thousands of young people, the crisis has been indicative of or aggravated by worrying situations. The poverty rate of children under 25 is three times higher than that of those over 60; 16% live below the poverty line in one of the most developed countries in the world. As we know, behind the term "youth" are many troubling economic situations. Young people have lost their jobs; some combined it with their studies; Others had just started working. Family solidarity, if it continues to play largely, in eight out of ten cases, is obviously very uneven, again penalizing young people from disadvantaged backgrounds. I am also thinking of the unarmed young parents, the young people who have left a school system in which they have not found their place, the adults who have become marginalized, the students who have dropped out. The effects of the crisis on young people are diverse. It affects their health – the percentage of young people concerned about their mental health continues to increase, as does the lack of resources to give up care. Their finances were increasingly affected, while their situation was already fragile, since 50 per cent of the poor were under 30 years of age. The crisis also leads to the loss of social ties and the anguish of a troubled future. Our Assembly's response must be commensurate with this unprecedented situation, allowing us to deal with material urgency. We cannot remain spectators of the daily images of these queues lying hundreds of young people in front of the food banks or Les Restos du coeur. We have put forward a number of proposals recently, including the opening of the RSA to the 18-25 year olds, defended in this Chamber by my colleagues Vallaud and Saulignac on 18 February. It is not a question, unlike the cartoons that have been made, of setting up assistance mechanisms, but, on the contrary, of proposing a solidarity emancipation. Twenty-three of the twenty-seven Member States of the European Union already have a minimum of youth, and that must make us think. In France, the choice of family support, which it seems impossible to call into question, leaves millions of our fellow citizens, who have to wait 25 years to receive state aid, in the precariousness and dependence on their families. At least an experiment could be attempted. Note that no young person chooses to settle in precarious conditions; In reality, young people need to be able to bounce back and experiment. Everywhere else, such an allocation has had only positive effects. Culture is missing from all of us, just as it is missing from young people. Bookstores now have the status of essential business, and that's how it is. Could not museums and theatres also be open, and to youth first? I come to the sport, whose exercise, framed in a taunting way at the moment, is impossible with curfew, when young people work. Can we not let a wind of freedom blow, of exception, for outdoor sports? [[Paul Molac applauds]] Of course, young people are not on the streets, but the exceptional nature of the retreat that affects them forces us to pay attention at all times. We must start from the youth to build the transition with the world after the covid, rather than make it an actor that should be forced.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1185.u18	Mr Thomas Gassilloud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1185.u19	I thank the Republicans Group for putting this debate on the agenda of our discussions on how to address the youth impact of the covid-19 epidemic. I also welcome the quality and richness of the work carried out by our fellow members of the Committee of Inquiry to measure and prevent the effects of the crisis on children and young people. Their report makes it possible to understand the extent and diversity of the consequences of the crisis on young people. For nearly a year now, we have been living at the pace of the pandemic. While we have all observed its health and economic effects, we are not equally affected by the virus and the consequences of the measures we are taking to stop its spread. Indeed, our youngest citizens, while not very exposed to the most serious forms of the disease, suffer from the economic precariousness, isolation and the resulting school, emotional or psychological breakdowns. Psychologically, first of all, the mental health of students has deteriorated dramatically with the health crisis. Forced to follow distance learning, to give up a large part of their social life and to cancel their international mobility projects, they had the feeling of missing out on their student years, yet so essential to build bonds, engage for common causes or gain confidence and emancipation. The increased use of screens has also affected their health. While they were already particularly present in their lives, they have become almost indispensable for a year, because they allow young people to maintain a semblance of sociability and access to distance learning. Expressions of ill-being and psychological distress have greatly increased in adolescents and young adults. The figures are alarming: nearly one in three young people have had suicidal thoughts in recent months. In addition, the crisis has deepened social inequalities, as distance education has been confronted with the digital divide, a long-standing reality that affects many of our rural citizens in the popular classes, who have been subjected to double house arrest for long months, for lack of a satisfactory computer or internet connection. "The classroom at home" was also done to the detriment of young people from low-educated or allophone families. Nearly one in ten children came out of the national education radars during confinement. Finally, the crisis has led to a worrying increase in youth poverty. More than a third of the students who worked lost their professional activity during the first confinement; their monthly income loss is estimated at 274 euros on average. At the same time, young people have sometimes been identified as the main culprits for the spread of the virus, as a result of their alleged behaviour or carelessness. Let's not create intergenerational conflict! To defeat the virus, we must stand together, united and united. Youth is our future for all of us. The Government has been at the meeting to support young people in difficulty. Without claiming to list all the measures taken in this direction, e.g. the cancellation of the rents of university residences in March 2020, the payment of an exceptional aid of 200 euros for all students who suffered a decrease in resources in June or the offer of two daily meals at 1 euro for all students. Our goal is clear: to find a solution adapted to the needs and aspirations of each young person. Our mobilization since 2017 has also borne fruit. Learning reached a historic level in 2020, with 500,000 contracts signed. Hiring continued between August and December, with 1.2 million young people hired in CSDs of more than three months or in CDI. For precarious young people away from employment, we have multiplied the bridges to activity; 600,000 young people have entered a path of integration into employment. For example, nearly €7 billion has been invested in two years to promote the integration and activity of young people. In April, a mentoring service will be launched to allow more than 100,000 young people to be followed by adult volunteers in their training courses. This is a fine example of intergenerational solidarity. I will conclude by recalling that the crisis has demonstrated the full vivacity of young people, their ability to mobilize, adapt and their willingness to participate in public decision-making to build the world of tomorrow, as evidenced by the development of universal national service and civic service missions. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group. – Mrs Nathalie Sarles also applauds]] Beyond the measures we take, this commitment of young people is a powerful factor for integration into collective life. So, Madam Minister, the Secretary of State, let us look further than this unfortunate parenthesis in our history, and ask ourselves how we can support these initiatives in a long time and encourage the involvement of young people.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1185.u20	Mrs Beatrice Descamps has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1185.u21	When we talk about youth in the context of the health crisis, a paradox arises: this covid generation is not affected by the virus itself, but suffers its consequences. This generation covid is that of the bachelors, whose conditions of preparation and passage of examination required a lot of adaptations. Many have taken up this additional challenge, but the uncertainty about the 2021 baccalaureate offers little encouraging prospect for the students concerned. Within the framework of the commission of inquiry on the effects of covid-19 on youth, the issue of programme relief, particularly for the classes under review, was raised. The gap is widening between students, even between those who have easy access to the Internet and those who face difficulties that we know are diverse – material, financial, social. However, what we might call bottom leveling is not a solution. This view is shared by young people. A number of young people have dropped out; others may follow them. Let's also think about new graduates. It is necessary to accompany them all. It should be remembered that this year, 700000 young people will enter the labour market, where they will be added to the 600,000 already unemployed. The Government has taken note of these challenges, compounded by the pandemic, with strong measures in its "1 young person 1 solution" plan. However, we know that it will be necessary to go even further for the sustainable integration of young people into the labour market. During several meetings with the students of the University of Valenciennes, I could only see the fragility of their psychological and financial situation: their isolation, linked to the remoteness of their department or country of origin, increases their distress. But I also admired their clarity about their situation, the help they receive and the great solidarity that unites them. The presidency, professors, CROUS, associations and elected representatives have been working together since the March 2020 confinement to help the most fragile. Yes, the crisis has also revealed the strength of local actors, who are familiar with the realities of the territories. This leads me to mention the subject of student access to internships, which is already not easy before the health crisis and is particularly complex today. I once again welcome the cooperation of the regions and the State in promoting learning through business support. Minister, I think it is necessary to reflect on the subject of access to internships. Although we cannot mention all the many aspects of the crisis, it seems essential to address the health of young people and the means devoted to it. In fact, confinement and new practices have exposed young people, both large and small, to a very disturbing digital overdose: disorders of concentration, sleep, learning and language; Integration difficulties for young people with disabilities. Finally, the overexposure of children to screens leads to an increase in cyber-harassment and a great vulnerability to the digital world that is available to them. Many parents find themselves in need, and campaigns to raise awareness of the controlled and reasoned use of screens would be useful. While access to sport is particularly restricted for health reasons, we know how much sport and culture are essential for the development of everyone and young people in particular. The 2S2C activities – sport, health, culture and civics – proposed during the course resumption last May, are in line with this logic. I am convinced that schools have an even greater role to play in this area. Open their doors to artists, respecting health rules, is possible. I read that a Valencian company was going to intervene in Belgian schools: why not take advantage of the current situation to help teachers welcome artists to schools? [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups. – Mr. Paul Molac also applauds]] While the crisis has revealed our weaknesses on the surface in many areas, it has also created strength and adaptability while revealing the indispensable role of the actors on the ground. Let us rely on all these findings to give hope to young people, hope for the future and their future: preparing for the post-covid-19 is to prepare the society and France of tomorrow.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1185.u22	Mr Michel Larive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1185.u23	Last June, we had a debate on the same subject thanks to our colleague Marie-George Buffet and his proposal for a student income. Today, a discussion on how to address the effects of covid-19 on youth is taking place during the week of review. For weeks, the growing precariousness of students has been making headlines. Throughout the territory, chains of solidarity are created in the face of the social difficulties that young people face. Youth suffers: it is at the heart of the news and must be at the centre of our concerns. All indicators attest to this, the living conditions of young people are deteriorating in our country, where one in five students lives below the poverty line. Almost half of young people now, when possible, have to work in parallel with their studies to cope with the increased cost of housing and student life. The crisis of the covid-19 has particularly exacerbated this precariousness: some students have found themselves unable to provide for their most basic needs in the face of rising current expenditure. Others found themselves confined to sometimes unhealthy housing. This impoverishment has been denounced for many years by student unions and sociologists. Reforms in higher education and the labour market have led to an increase in inequality and poverty; In addition, successive governments have considerably reduced the amount of public funding allocated to CROUS and higher education institutions; Finally, since 2017, personalized housing subsidies – APL – have been constantly being revised downwards: this disengagement from the state has led young people to become resourceful, has forced them to take up precarious jobs and has exposed them particularly to psychosocial risks. Despite the warnings and student mobilizations, the state has never grasped this problem with arm-the-body. In 2017, however, France had proposed the introduction of an autonomy allowance of 800 euros per month for young people between the ages of 18 and 25 and for a period of three years, with the aim of guaranteeing students decent living conditions. At the beginning of the health crisis, we developed a plan for youth, which included emergency measures that could provide a short- and medium-term response to economic insecurity. We requested, among other things, the extension of the grant payments during the two summer months, the immediate freezing of rent payments for university residents and the opening of the AHR for young people under 25 years of age. By remaining deaf to these concerns, which have been developed in consultation with the first concerned, the Government has failed to take into account our proposals. During the health crisis, it merely granted one-off and insufficient assistance of 200 euros to less than half of the students. Many young people risk paying the high price of the health crisis and this inaction.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1185.u24	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1185.u25	Indeed, the economic recession does not augur well for the most precarious future; The next summer, for the second year in a row, will be particularly difficult to find an internship, a first job or a food job. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] This context requires us to work urgently on the construction of a new student social protection. The Government must give the means of material independence to those who, once graduated, will build the future of our country. This mobilization of the State is indispensable and must be deployed in an emergency, as it offers the only guarantee of an emancipatory perspective for young people.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1185.u26	Mr Paul Molac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1185.u27	The serious health crisis that we are experiencing has brought to light a real paradox: while young people are not or little affected by the pathological effects of the virus, they pay a heavy price a year after the start of the crisis. No one here has ever called into question the need to protect our elders, who represent the vast majority of the direct victims of the virus. It is indeed our duty, regardless of the life expectancy of individuals, to ensure the full protection of the population, and therefore of the most fragile. However, it is also our duty to ask ourselves this fundamental question: with all the containment measures and the arrest of our country, are we not sacrificing a generation that aspires to discover life and to chew it full of teeth? Will the ravages caused by the indirect effects of covid-19 have long-term repercussions or will we be able to catch up? Ladies and gentlemen, it is difficult to measure the medium- and long-term consequences of this crisis right now. It is to be expected that there will be: for students and high school students who have seen their curriculum disrupted and for those whose training has been truncated compared to that of previous promotions. Here I would like to congratulate and thank the educational and administrative teams of the educational institutions, as they have spared no effort to ensure continuity of the educational offer.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1185.u28	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1185.u29	Unfortunately, the absence of face-to-face courses in universities has lasted too long. As a result, young people lost all motivation and were unable to find the resources to run learning hours in their homes and behind a screen. Once again, I can only regret the lack of a territorialized vision of the Government: why has the presidents and presidents of universities not been entrusted with the responsibility of opening or not opening the doors of their institutions and establishing a protocol to respect there? Is it not possible to give courses in promotion halves distributed in an amphitheater? I am not in a position to determine whether the conditions were met to ensure the reception of students, but I am surprised that what is possible for high schools, preparatory classes and institutions issuing BTS – advanced technician certificates – is not for universities. Madam Minister for Higher Education, you have simply closed down the universities rather than giving them the opportunity to adapt. My department has a so-called community and human-sized university that has good facilities and makes me say that adaptations could have been found. I am extremely concerned about young people without diplomas or training who are unable, because of the economic downturn, to find a job. Those who are lucky enough to benefit from the help of their families remain a burden for their loved ones. These young people are often excluded from accompanying financial arrangements and cannot emancipate themselves to gain their autonomy. While a significant proportion of young people are in a very precarious situation and outside the labour market, the Freedom and Territory Group has for many months expressed the wish to extend the RSA to young people between the ages of 18 and 25. This measure would be simple to deploy because it is simply a matter of extending the scheme to an additional category of the population. Similarly, we believe that we need to take advantage of this crisis to review our approach to the integration of young people into society. Some colleagues will not be in favour of extending the AHR to young people under 25 years of age, but we should at least talk about it. This question is not on the public square, although it seems important to me. I am thinking in particular of students who are forced to work to pay for their studies, because they are too rich to have scholarships and not enough to be helped by their families. These young people no longer have work, which is a real problem.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1185.u30	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1185.u31	The defenders of this new idea do not even bother to deepen the subject because they consider that this type of measure favours assistance. To meet young people all over my territory, I don't see many who want to do nothing about their lives and who want to live with assistance and public assistance. On the contrary, I see young people driven by projects, sometimes passionate about their work and inclined to set goals in life. We will only turn our backs on the young people if we want too much infantilization and de-responsibility.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1185.u32	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1185.u33	Yet it is up to us to give them, in these troubled times, the keys for them to build their own future – even if we may disagree with their choices, which nevertheless make that generations do not resemble each other. In conclusion, perhaps we, ladies and gentlemen, should change the package rather than wait for the eradication of the virus by means of very heavy measures. Isn't it time to wonder if it would be better to live with this virus?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1185.u34	Mr Alain Bruneel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1185.u35	The pandemic has captured the dreams, enthusiasm, creation, follies, laughter, tears and reunions of youth. A generation suffers the consequences of the pandemic: loss of employment, precariousness, social and cultural life reduced to nothing, and the burden of debt contracted for the years to come. This unprecedented situation creates many difficulties in the daily lives of young people, regardless of their age. Since last year, all have experienced severe disruptions: closure of establishments during the first confinement, distancical classes and home school. The covid-19 pandemic has weakened the education of many students and students, and more broadly, the lives of all young people. The pandemic has plunged our country into a deep crisis. Unfortunately, we can only worry about the social, economic and psychological difficulties it causes. The health shock is exploding social inequalities by causing school and university dropouts and digital divides. We had to adapt, protect ourselves, isolate ourselves and reinvent ourselves. Today, more than ever, we must put the human person at the heart of the Republic's concerns.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1185.u36	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1185.u37	Society is sick; the evils are multiple, but the remedies exist. We have to think and act differently, because youth expect something else from the state: we have to manage today, thinking about tomorrow too. There are solutions, moreover: I urge you to take note of the report by my colleague Marie-George Buffet,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1185.u38	Very good report!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1185.u39	... developed on behalf of the Committee of Inquiry to measure and prevent the effects of the covid-19 crisis on children and youth. This generation is full of proposals, despite a context conducive to a decline in living standards and isolation. Young people don't get discouraged, they fight to see better days. But this requires a young income; to say stop the precariousness, to obtain real autonomy and valorisation, and thus, a recognition. In addition to these initial measures, the renovation and upgrading of universities must be undertaken; to provide educational and psychological support in connection with local authorities; organize a gradual reopening of faculties in connection with a real vaccination strategy. The reality bears witness to the legitimacy of these demands when we see the queues of food collections that continue to grow longer. In this regard, allow me to take a big step towards the associations that engage with the students. Political choices are crucial: life, health, housing and solidarity must be a priority. The new generation arrangements are insufficient; We need exceptional means, we have to believe in youth, in collective intelligence, in its ability to create today's world and that of tomorrow. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] Minister, Madam Secretary of State, listen to the students, not the influencers! For several weeks, young people have been alerting on social networks, their testimonies are relayed by the media, letters are sent to the Government: they express moral, physical and psychological suffering, lack of prospects for the future, feeling useless. Whole lines stand up to receive food aid, but you don't listen, you don't reinvent yourself. Listen to the students, not the influencers!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1185.u40	Mrs Fabienne Colboc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1185.u41	Madame "It's all right"!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1185.u42	If the covid-19 affects young people relatively little in its severe form, the consequences of the pandemic hit them with full force. "It's hard to be 20 years old in 2020," acknowledged the President of the Republic. Cancellation of internships, loss of small jobs, distance learning, domestic violence: young people face many challenges. The Government, concerned, has quickly put in place concrete actions and solutions adapted to all specific situations. To all those who consider that State action is insufficient, I would like to remind you that EUR 7 billion will be mobilised to provide a solution for everyone. Also, equal opportunities schemes are strengthened: educational cities, learning holidays, solidarity neighbourhoods. Before I go into detail, I would like to highlight the tremendous solidarity that has been established in all territories to support young people, whether through associations, sports clubs, communities or businesses. I will discuss the state's means of combating the effects of the pandemic in four ways. First of all, we must respond to isolation. Lack of social and emotional life, ill-being: youth-specific carelessness has given way to very difficult situations. In response, the Government had strengthened the psychological support of young people and recruited reference students, whose role was crucial. It will surely be necessary to go further and perhaps allow outings in the open air after eighteen hours; sport is good for health. The particular period we are going through also increases the risk of falling back on ourselves. We must support the mechanisms and action of associations such as the "Promeneurs du net", which allow us to keep the link and avoid disruptions. The second is to provide financial support to the young people who need it most. Poverty figures show a sharp increase in insecurity since the beginning of the crisis. To meet these financial difficulties, we have mobilised 150 million to finance exceptional emergency aid for students. Moreover, all students, whether scholarship holders or not, can now benefit from two meals a day at one euro. On this point, there may be some clarification to be given to external medical students, so that they also benefit from these one-euro meals in the canteens of the CHU – university hospital centres. More recently, you announced, Madam Minister, that students will benefit from free sanitary protection; I would like to welcome this action.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1185.u43	The lovely ones in the crib!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1185.u44	The third axis is to facilitate further studies. Individualised pathways will be built for the 35,000 young people aged 16 to 18 in school drop-out situations. It also seems to me important to pay particular attention to the orientation choices currently being made by first-year and drop-out students. I would also like to welcome the decision you made to allow students to return to university one day a week; Beyond learning, this will allow for the renewal of indispensable social ties. Perhaps it will be necessary to consider increasing the number of initiatives to provide offices or spaces in third places, such as the Mame space in Tours, in order to provide solutions for students who have left their homes and who are unable to return to university for a few hours a week. The fourth axis is to promote vocational integration. On this front, I know how much integration associations, local missions and communities are mobilized. The "1 young person 1 solution" plan proposes concrete ways to facilitate the training of young people in future jobs and their integration into the labour market. We can already welcome the fact that 500,000 companies have hired apprentices, 19% more than last year, but also welcome the strengthening of the system of free jobs for young people in neighbourhoods and rural areas. To facilitate the vocational integration of young people, this also requires a substantial increase in the number of young people entering the labour market and on a journey towards employment and self-reliance in all territories. It is now up to everyone to support the "1 young 1 mentor" plan launched yesterday by the President of the Republic to generalize good practices...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1185.u45	What a verbiage!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1185.u46	... sponsorship between young people and professionals, which has already been dealt with by the young economic chamber of Tours. In conclusion, I would like to address the younger generations and tell them that all these measures are there to restore their confidence and build their future. We have heard that your concerns go beyond the crisis and also concern the environment. The draft law on combating climate change and strengthening resilience to its effects and the 30 billion for green growth are there to respond to it. We are listening to you, because the vitality of your ideas, the richness of your proposals and your spirit of innovation are engines for the future of our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1185.u47	What a mess!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1185.u48	[["Ah! » on the benches of the LR group]] All this leads me to conclude my remarks by calling for the creation of a national youth observatory.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1185.u49	This is the observatory!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1185.u50	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] This recommendation of the Committee of Inquiry on Youth, chaired by Sandrine Mörch, whose rapporteur was Marie-George Buffet, would provide a clearer cross-sectional knowledge of the situations of young people, territory by territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1185.u51	The Minister for Higher Education, Research and Innovation has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1185.u52	The health crisis that we have been experiencing for almost a year has saved no one: from artists to restaurateurs to residents of EHPAD, many categories can, for various reasons, claim to be the first victims of this pandemic. We could sting for a long time on this sad record, but it would only serve to divide us by pitting corporations and generations against each other, when this trial calls us instead for more fraternity. However, we cannot deny the specificity of certain situations. A lost year at 20 is not a lost year at 50; the period of 18 to 25 years is not a period like the others. This is the age when personality crystallizes, where citizenship is forged and where political consciousness is submerged. For the year 2000 generation, this period has been deeply disrupted by the pandemic. First academic year, first internship, first job, first housing: all the initiatory stages that usually accompany the entry into adulthood have been marked by health constraints and economic slowdown. These stolen promises not only resulted in temporary frustration, but also in increasing insecurity and deep ill-being, a child of loneliness and fear of the next day. This distress concerns us all, because the youth it affects is indeed the France of tomorrow; The Government has a duty to respond to this distress. We owe it to the young people who have accepted the constraints and sacrifices admirably, and who are entitled to their share of protection and hope. [[Protests on the benches of the LR group]] Perhaps there will be a "covid generation", if one means a generation that has been able to draw a new consciousness of others and of the planet from this ordeal, but there will be no sacrificed generation, because that is the priority of the entire government and the communities; It's mine in particular when it comes to students. To respond to the ill-being of young people is first of all to know how to hear it, and that is why, for several months, we have been on the ground to meet this young person who has given so much. My perpetual exchanges with students, on campuses and in university restaurants, convinced me of one thing: yes, they are subject to doubt, uncertainty, sometimes terrible material difficulties, but yes, they are also full of resources, desires, dreams and, above all, they refuse to be victims. Their anxiety has never been so strong, but their desire to commit has never been so resolved. So they expect us to be less compassionate than solutions. Young people deserve more and better than a social minima horizon: their ambition is to exist and not just to survive; to live free and not just to survive. Of course, we have to give them the chance and the means. That is why the Government's work has focused on two areas. The first is accompaniment: there is no point in talking about the future as long as daily life remains a challenge. We therefore had to help young people to overcome the crisis, both materially and psychologically, and to stop making it a subject of controversy. Because we did not wait until the difficulties made the headlines for us to seize it: as early as last spring, unprecedented measures were taken to support them financially, pedagogically and humanly. Since the beginning of the year, these efforts have been stepped up on the front of precariousness, but also on the front of ill-being, with the establishment of support mechanisms that now allow students to consult a psychologist as part of a care path. More than 1,000 psychologists made themselves available to this call.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1185.u53	It's a dream!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1185.u54	The shrink check!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1185.u55	After the accompaniment, young people must also be allowed to follow the path of their future. To give young people what they aspire to most: the power to act. The term "youth" covers a very wide heterogeneity of situations and it is all the ambition of the plan "1 young person 1 solution" to embrace this diversity in order to open up to everyone a path of future and success. Mr.Member, I would like to reassure you that of course we are working day after day with communities, with regions, away from sterile accusations, to find together the best ways to support youth. Self-reliance as an essential lever for emancipation is the compass of my ministry's work to build a new system of self-help and social assistance for students. The Government's objective is clear: no young people should stay at the edge of the road, neither today nor tomorrow,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1185.u56	This is noted in the transcript.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1185.u57	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] ... not because he had no opportunities, nor because he would have been prevented from seizing them. The field of possibilities must remain open for the generation called to build the resilient and solidarity sustainable society of tomorrow. And it's also that, protecting our country and protecting life, no matter what.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1185.u58	The Secretary of State for Youth and Engagement has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1185.u59	We agree that a year ago, young people were hit by a crisis. But the consequences are not the same for students, for young people who are already working and for those who are parents; They are not the same for those who live in Aurillac, in Saint-Marcellin or in my home, in Nantes; They are not the same for the young people their parents can help and for those who are not, for those who are lucky enough to live in a house and for those who live in eight square meters. So there is no one-size-fits-all, magical solution. On the other hand, efforts are being made to provide multiple responses. Of course, they're not perfect. The effects of the crisis were not the same last March: some worsened, others appeared. I will give a few examples before we answer your questions, as the control exercise wants. As you pointed out, Mr Dumont, like other parliamentarians, the consequences of the crisis are first and foremost economic. The loss of jobs in the tourism and catering sectors, for example, has led to insecurity. We respond by stimulating recruitment, particularly on an alternating basis, for those under 26 years of age. The "Youth, a solution" plan, which Mrs Colboc mentioned, has supported more than 1 million young people, who have benefited from the aid to enterprises of 4000 euros, in order to help them in this difficult period to create jobs for young people, regardless of their situation. In addition, EUR 7 billion of the plan's appropriations contributed to the conclusion of 550,000 apprenticeship contracts.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1185.u60	An apprenticeship contract is not a job!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1185.u61	These two answers concern only the economic aspect, Mr Pradieu; indeed, that is not enough. Mr Bruneel, you said that young people needed meaning, to find their place and to feel useful. Again, there are a variety of answers to help. Civic service missions have been adapted to remove the minimum 24 hours per week constraint, so that students can find meaning and receive an allowance of €680, now accessible to all, whether scholarship holders or not. The answers also concern the moral consequences of fatigue and isolation, which Mr Larive and Mrs Descamps referred to. You do not live in the same way depending on whether you have a close family, whether you are a foreign student or simply in a region other than your own. Assistance to associations is a response; In my view, we must also support those who support young people. I have faith in the beautiful initiatives of the territories: more and more town halls have opened shared work spaces. You are right to raise the issue of digital insecurity: some young people do not have access to these tools. This multitude of answers wants to give our youth the impetus we owe it. Mrs Petit, you have talked about the consequences in families, in particular the violence, which the work of the committee of inquiry chaired by Mrs Mörch, of which Mrs Buffet was rapporteur, has shown. We are, of course, continuing prevention work, but not only. Last summer, with Jean-Michel Blanquer, Minister of National Education, Youth and Sports, we created the learning holidays. We will sustain them, because they bring a breath of air to 1 million children, who go to holiday camps. Last summer, we were hoping to get out of the crisis quickly, but it's going on. It is necessary to accompany them. The consequences of the crisis are therefore psychological, moral, economic, family and social. In order to give our young people the impetus that Mr Bruneel mentioned, we must give them hope. How? By being side by side, on all benches, by multiplying solutions, and agreeing to make them evolve. Thus, the young guarantee, defended by some parliamentarians, is not taboo. In our view, the opening of the AHR to young people under the age of 25 is insufficient, for a simple reason: young people who need help need financial assistance, and they need to be responded to, but human support is also needed. It will be ensured by the universal youth guarantee, as envisaged today, knowing that it will continue to evolve. People must be placed at the centre, by strengthening financial support for local missions. Élisabeth Borne's Ministry of Labour, Employment and Integration has already contributed over EUR 200 million to strengthen them humanely. They find housing and mobility solutions, because young people can be fragile in many ways: we must respond to them all. This is what we owe to our youth, as we owe it a country that refuses to be on its knees, who believes in its future. That is the meaning of the stimulus plan that we are defending, thanks to economic investment, but also with the mobilization of the Government, local elected representatives, and all the forces of the country. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Mr. Gassilloud and Mr. Molac, you mentioned the internships. The site dedicated to the plan "1 young person, 1 solution" offers 30,000 internships. This is far from sufficient to meet all the demands, but Ms. Vidal provides answers to accompany students in their diversity. A third-level internship is not a BTS or master's internship. We need companies, who are committed, and communities, who continue to offer internships. If we bring together our energies to meet all these challenges together, we will live up to the diverse expectations of youth and we will be able to face it: yes, it is resilient, yes, it has energy – if we trust it. Let us stand by him to overcome these difficulties, which will anyway leave scars. By dialoguing and converging our solutions, we will go beyond this step.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1185.u62	We come to the questions. I would remind you that questions and answers are limited to two minutes and there is no right of reply. In the questions put by the Group of the European People's Party, Mr Frédéric Reiss has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1185.u63	I am part of the May 68 generation, whose history has held that it is forbidden to prohibit: the end of constraints, oppressions and proprieties. Half a century later, in an attempt to defeat the pandemic, fundamental freedoms were restricted or even violated. "It's hard to be 20 years old in 2020": this sentence, delivered in October by President Macron, has not finished resonating in the head of those who will probably be called the "covid generation". It is an anxious generation, in search of meaning, powerless in the face of climate disruptions; It questions the future of democracy, and does not want to be sacrificed. Paradoxically, these young people, fed digitally, who eagerly tasted social networks, find themselves overdosed with video conferencing, which despairs them. Whether you like it or not, two school years have been more than disrupted – years lost, according to your words, minister. The result of the 2020 bac is in trompe l'oeil, perhaps even a time bomb. The re-entry 2021 is now getting ready. What is the Government doing to ensure that the next academic year takes place normally? Will all teachers be vaccinated by then? [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] My second question concerns the courses necessary for the validation of a training course, which is often a diploma. Most of those who have to do internships have the feeling of reliving last spring's galley. Because of the health crisis, companies have neither the time nor the budget to recruit trainees. Between postponed projects and telework teams, many are reluctant to welcome students. Beyond the slogans "1 young person, 1 solution" or "1 young person, 1 job", what is planned to help young people? Colleagues have already asked the question and Pierre-Henri Dumont has mentioned solutions: how will the Government encourage companies to hire trainees?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1185.u64	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1185.u65	As you said, the main objective in the coming weeks is to solve the problem of internships. Unlike last year, institutions have prepared themselves, communities have worked with them, as well as the socio-economic world. The universities that I had the chance to visit recently offer some examples: in Poitiers, a work has been done with all the actors in the socio-economic world, to offer internships on the JobTeaser platform; In Gironde, the strong mobilisation of the member companies of the CPME – Confederation of Small and Medium-sized Enterprises – départemental gave rise to the initiative "1 student1enterprise" ; In Strasbourg, the platform is called "a company, a young person, a diploma". In addition, the "1 young person, 1 solution" platforms and the student.gouv.fr website participate to make the internships visible. The regions also commit themselves, such as the Grand Est region with the "capital internships" scheme, or the Centre-Val-de-Loire region, with the Jobaviz platform of the CROUS. Each time, the work of the institutions is carried out in conjunction with the socio-economic world and the communities, which provide local solutions. Of course, it was also necessary that these internships could be postponed until 31 December, as last year, in order to benefit from a resumption of economic activity: it is difficult at the moment to obtain an internship in certain sectors, but companies undertake to welcome students when they are able to do so. The same scheme as last year will allow students to complete their internships until 31 December, without re-registration: their diploma will be validated. This lace work is done locally, on the ground, however we can give it national visibility. Young people need to know that the economic world accompanies them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1185.u66	Mr Bernard Perrut has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1185.u67	All of us on these benches meet young people every day, who are aware of situations in which you have emphasized diversity, Madam Secretary of State. They are not only deprived of social life, they are faced with extreme difficulties in finding an internship, an alternance job, their first job, or the small job that is essential to complete the end of the month. Of course, you provide answers, but they are partial and insufficient. What concrete actions could you take in favour of employment? Can you tell us about the new ideas that have come up in recent days, mentoring and internship grants? How will they work? Will they really be useful? In addition to the precariousness that threatens them, we are concerned about the health of the students, because they live in small places where the sufferings of confinement are exacerbated. You invented the "Psych check." Do you have any numbers, to know if it is being used properly, and if it is a sufficient answer? You announced a return to universities, first at specific times, on a gauge. On 22 February, Madam Minister, you mentioned a resumption of courses in all universities, for all disciplines, before the end of the month. I guess it was March. The reality, alas, seems to be completely out of step with such announcements. How can you affirm this, in disregard of the realities of the field, despite the too tight framework imposed on universities? The young people wait: when will they actually return to the amphitheatres or classrooms? When will they be able to take the internship route again? Students in universities and large business schools do not find an internship: will their year be "failed"? They need to be reassured. Finally, have you deployed projects with regions and large cities that want to commit themselves, in order to encourage the resumption of courses and the support of young people? The Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region, my region, will, for example, provide antigenic testing and protective equipment to higher education institutions to encourage a return to normal activity. The Île-de-France region is also involved with young people. What links can be established between local communities and your services?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1185.u68	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1185.u69	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1185.u70	We are obviously in contact with the regions: we share a scoreboard in order to apply complementary and coordinated measures. For example, some regions pay for the transportation costs of students for whom it is difficult to move from home to university only once or twice a week. Other regions purchased computers and in this case we provided 4G keys. Yes, the work is done continuously with all the associations representing the communities, but also in each of the academic cities, either directly or through the rectors, who are mobilized on these topics. As far as psychological aid is concerned, every week we have information from all academic services. We will set up a platform on 8 March to encourage young people to apply for this help. The main difficulty is to convince them that they need it and that they can ask for it, but they do not feel embarrassed to do so. Relay students and sentinel students have been recruited to encourage young people to consult when they go wrong. The introduction of this new tool, starting next Monday, will allow them to do so independently and at the times of the day that make them the most comfortable. All higher education institutions have provided us with information on the reception of students in classes. With the exception of a few schools which, in agreement with the students – a few thousand in all – have maintained almost all the teachings remotely, all universities will welcome students who wish to do so in their premises from the beginning of the school year, i.e. on 8 March in the last of the three zones. This means that more than 90% of students can or are already accommodated in institutions. On average, 60 per cent choose to return to classrooms while 40 per cent prefer to stay away for a variety of reasons.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1185.u71	Mr Christophe Blanchet, for the Group of the European Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1185.u72	For the past year, young people have been suffering, especially students. Despite the "Psych checks", they suffer in silence from isolation, not to see each other, not to study together, not to think together, side by side, about their future. They suffer from not kissing their grandparents and it is to save their lives that they accept, responsible and supportive, all these conditions for a year. They suffer from being unable to eat properly even if, thanks to solidarity, they regain their appetite. They suffer from not having those student parties that are our memories, not theirs. They suffer from not being able to gain their autonomy thanks to these small jobs, these summer jobs that we all did and which, for many, partially fund the following school year and allow young people to exist. The summer job is a period of life when the young adult learns the sense of responsibility and makes decisive encounters, which sometimes will influence his whole life. The summer job is not just a bundle of a few hundred euros but an energy that drives all the economic and cultural sectors, from hotels to events. Festivals, cafes, hotels, restaurants, discotheques, salons, caterers, theatres, cinemas, and so many others: who has never called on them? And what about the seasonals that agriculture needs so much? For the past year, Madam Minister, Madam Secretary of State, young people under 30 years of age have been prevented from building their adult lives. But for the past year, the situation has changed: the vaccine exists and there is an urgent and urgent need to give these young people a clear and positive timetable if you want to continue to obtain their adherence to the restrictions imposed on them; We need to be clear so that every employer has a chance to see the future, knowing that the recruitment period for the summer season is beginning and that we need to be clear. [[Mrs Maud Petit applauds]] Let's try to anticipate rather than announce the reopening the day before for the next day. To do this, what about the passport, not the vaccination passport, but the health passport? This approach allows us to speed up the return to life, day and night, and to really learn to live with the virus, as several other countries show us. In addition, it would set a date from which young people could emancipate and build the foundations of their future. This is one of the many answers young people are waiting for!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1185.u73	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1185.u74	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1185.u75	You're right, summer jobs aren't just income. They are one, of course, and everyone needs it, but they also allow them to live experiences and create links. After eleven months of health crisis, we realize how essential the human and social link is. So how can we allow everyone to make projects for the summer and build their future? First of all, a hope was born with the vaccine, allowing to project and see the light that is coming. In addition to the concrete measures taken by the Government, I will mention the sector I am accompanying, that of the world of animation and the associations that welcome young people in the summer, especially in summer camps or in Scouts. What have we done in this area? To support these associations, we first set up an emergency fund of EUR 15 million to allow the continuation of the trainings at BAFA – certificate of aptitude for the functions of facilitator – and BAFD – certificate of aptitude for the functions of director – since they allow many young people to obtain a summer job, whether they are students or not. Of course, it is only a sector of activity. For the rest, that is, the multitude of dynamic summer jobs that we love, that allow us to party and be proud, I will say this: when tourism goes, the summer job goes. However, tourism depends on the evolution of the pandemic. You are asking the question of the health passport: the Government is exploring this path, which raises several questions. What is the situation in the countries that have put it in place, or where there are medical contraindications? How much can this passport be an accelerator? There's no way out. The impetus we are giving is to provide economic support to businesses that allow young people to project themselves into summer jobs. Those who do not have one – you must have the honesty to examine all the situations – get a 900 euro help when they are usually seasonal, to avoid them turning into precarious and being deprived of both dream and job.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1185.u76	Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel has the floor for the Socialist and related group.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1185.u77	I ask the question of my colleague Régis Juanico. In France, the criminal majority is set at sixteen, the civic majority at eighteen and the social majority at only twenty-five: what strangeness! For too long, the younger generations have had to make a journey of the combatant through internships, small jobs, short and precarious contracts, before acquiring the legitimate status of adults. Young people aspire to a right in the future, to autonomy, to stable employment, to housing, to health. They look forward to a response that goes far beyond the one-time subsidies and bonuses introduced by the Government, which are no longer sufficient. During confinement, 40% of students had to stop working. The loss of long employment contracts has caused many of them to fall into great precariousness. The images of students in the queues of solidarity grocery stores are revolting. In addition to the students, the projects of hundreds of thousands of young people – studies, competitions, job interviews, mobility, stays abroad – broke out because of the pandemic, further degrading their conditions of entry into adult life. Our group therefore proposes to extend the RSA to young people under the age of 25 and to introduce a basic income and a universal endowment at the age of 18: these are real solutions, contrary to the proposal of some members of the majority to bring students into the infernal spiral of indebtedness. Lastly, did the Government intend to provide a concrete response to the plight of young people? Which one?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1185.u78	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1185.u79	We agree on one point: one of our objectives is to achieve the autonomy and emancipation of the young people who are studying. If it were that simple, I have no doubt that other governments would have already done so. You know, however, that the question of the social model that we want is the following: should we, as many of our neighbours do, continue to favour family support or should it not be better to adopt a model closer to that of the countries of Northern Europe, where aid mainly targets young people and their emancipation?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1185.u80	That's what we're proposing!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1185.u81	We have been in the middle of the ford for years, but no one has dealt with this issue. We work with student associations and follow on our compass the course of emancipation of the young people who study. The first step is to list all the aids offered to students. They are multiple and use different channels; the rate of non-recourse is incredibly high due to the inextricable jungle of the files to be filled and the eligibility conditions. We must start by flattening all these aids and then group them together and propose a global aid of autonomy. In the meantime, what have we done to deal with the urgency of the situation? We have ensured that all young people, whether scholarship holders or not, have access to a EUR 500 aid by filling out a very simple form. This amount may be paid on a monthly basis after examination of the files. We have doubled the specific aid that the CROUS administers. For the past two years, we have been increasing scholarships on social criteria. In short, we have ensured that as many measures as possible affect all students, whether scholarship holders or not. And, as Mrs El Haïry said, we have relaxed the use of civic services. In short, we have proposed pragmatic and immediate solutions. At the same time, we are carrying out a long-term work in substance which I hope will soon have the opportunity to present to you.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1185.u82	Mrs Lise Magnier has the floor for the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1185.u83	Yes, young people are little affected by the virus and yet they suffer the economic, social and psychological consequences, like all French, whether they are high school students, bachelors, students, apprentices, young workers or looking for a job. And no, it's not easy to be 20 in 2020. On behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, I want to begin by saying how confident we are in our youth, in all those young people who have convictions, who are committed and who defend values, who innovate and adapt. But the situations are diverse and in every age group, this health crisis has created dramatic situations and, like any crisis in the rest, it has revealed our strengths and weaknesses. We have been able to identify our weaknesses, those of our health and care system in particular, but we too often forget to highlight our strengths, those of a solidarity nation, of a State that protects. Young people are worried, but they too have proved to be a youth of incredible adaptability, a mobilized youth, a youth of solidarity, a youth who wants to act, a youth who wants a future. The Action Together group has made proposals for young people to take part in the fight against the pandemic, for example by offering them to provide civic services within health brigades. This concrete proposal aims to maintain the commitment of young people, but also to support them financially. How can we encourage voluntary involvement of young people in the current context?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1185.u84	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1185.u85	You are so right to welcome the commitment of young people of all ages. The crisis has indeed had dramatic consequences for all young people, but everyone has found their place: I will give some concrete examples to answer your question directly. We launched the platform jeveuxaide.gouv.fr at the very beginning of the first confinement, while we did not yet know well about the virus: almost half of the 350,000 French people who registered there were under 30 years old. We asked young people on civic service to change their mission, in full confinement: more than 600,000 young people accepted the same day, and amendments were signed to join associations to fight against the great precariousness and social isolation of the elderly in the EHPADs in order to reduce the divide between the generations. How do we do it, how do we keep doing it? We obviously support all those who, on campuses, in the territories, in the framework of the 10,000 intergenerational missions of civic service, wish to combat the isolation of the oldest people: this is how much we are able to live up to society. In this period of vaccination, we also benefit from the support of civic service volunteers under the "test, alert, protect" strategy. The deployment of these missions will continue throughout the country; We owe this equality, which is, in a way, equal opportunity, to young people wherever they live. We are also mobilizing the civic reserve, which we make available to our communities, to make use of this information dissemination force. We can commit ourselves at any age, but we must salute the commitment of young people, and tell them how proud we are of them, who have not given up.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1185.u86	The next speaker is Mr Michel Zumkeller, for the IDU and independent group.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1185.u87	My question, like many others, is about the situation of students. It is hard to be 20 years old in this period of health crisis: impossibility of attending cultural, sports, and even places of study; distance learning; loss of friendly ties, upset social life; Shortage of small jobs. A routine that sets in, and a sluggish question: what will the diplomas obtained after such a year be worth? Are studies still being used for something? For young people, life sometimes takes the look of a real nightmare. In the face of this situation, the Government has made some arrangements – meals at 1 euro in university restaurants, taking into account psychiatric or psychological difficulties – but these measures seem to be insufficient. Are you considering a health and social grant that would compensate for, for example, the absence of the usual small job, or even the rental, far from home, of an apartment that often costs the family a lot, even though it is impossible to go to university? It would be essential that the criteria for awarding such a grant be sufficiently broad to enable the middle classes to benefit from it. On the other hand, could we set a deadline for the vaccination of students? It wouldn't be easy, but it would help everyone. In this context, I would like to recall the proposal made by the IDU, by the voice of our President, to use the AstraZeneca vaccine, since it is not a priori available to people over 65 years of age. This would allow young people to find their way back to class, and above all this social life that they miss so much.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1185.u88	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1185.u89	The urgency you are referring to affects children in the middle classes, who cannot benefit from traditional scholarships on social criteria. This is why we have created two main mechanisms: the possibility for a student to request a review of his or her file, i.e. to switch to the existing stock exchange system if the family has suffered significant financial losses; and the famous emergency aid, typically for young people who usually do not receive grants on social criteria. By contacting their CROUS, they can obtain up to 500 euros per month for the duration of their academic year. This scheme is open to scholarship students and non-students, both French and foreign. Young people often imagine that the CROUS only deals with scholarship holders: not at all! The network of works concerns all students. This, I repeat, is a completely new system, simplified to the extreme so that everyone can be helped. As for the vaccination of students, we know that the vaccine protects, individually, from complications related to infection with coronavirus; We also know that, fortunately, young people very rarely experience these complications. On the other hand, we do not know if vaccination prevents the spread of the virus. In other words, if a vaccinated person is infected, he/she will be protected by the antibodies generated by the vaccination; it will not declare serious pathology; But if, for twenty-four, forty-eight or seventy-two hours, it remains contagious, the problem of viral transmission is in no way solved. That is why, pending the outcome of the studies on this point, we remain in line with what the High Health Authority has proposed: if scientific data evolve, health doctrines in the field of vaccination will also be able to evolve.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1185.u90	Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon, for the Group of the European People's Party, spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1185.u91	I would like to address the question of students, in particular the need to grant them a minimum income. The rate of suicidal ideas in their home is known by all here; their discouragement, their suffering, their loneliness must worry us more than ever. With the health crisis as an aggravating factor, is French society not sacrificing a generation, its youth? Young people find it difficult to move, to eat, to study, to live, to care, to communicate. Many have almost no social life. The parents, themselves at the end, no longer know where to give head. There is an urgent need to act if we are to prevent them from dropping out of school, from sinking. Youth should not be sacrificed, but encouraged! Between the helpers of the family allowance funds and the scholarships which reveal their limits, the time has come to introduce a minimum student income which takes account not only of the situation of the parents, but also of the student status of the young person. This system already exists in some cities in Hexagon, but it is part of local initiatives; Each student would have to receive a monthly income paid by the State. Minister, my question will be simple: are you in favour of its creation? Finally, I should like to add that, given the precariousness and the specific nature of the sea, the Government should create a fund to enable students from those territories to return to the country if they so wish.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1185.u92	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1185.u93	You list the many difficulties students face; I would like to share with you their many solutions. For example, you speak of difficulties in caring for yourself: in each territory, universities, higher education institutions, have established university health centres and health services, have organized half-days or days of consultations with specialist doctors, so that students can treat themselves without any advance fees. The same applies now to psychologists, whose care was previously not reimbursed. The real difficulty lies in encouraging students, convincing them that they can ask for help...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1185.u94	They're asking for it, actually!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1185.u95	...and that it is important for them to do so. As for the question you are asking, I had the opportunity to answer it earlier. First of all, I repeat, this is a real choice of society: on the one hand, the emancipation and autonomy of the student; on the other, a model of social assistance based on the income of the family. Again, it has been several months since we worked with the student associations on the subject of a global assistance of autonomy, taking into account all the arrangements for accompaniment of students; We want it to be very simple, to avoid non-recourse, and that communities be associated with it – as well as participating in some funding, that they grant specific scholarships to the ultramarine students you mentioned. We must be able to work together to build this global economic aid, designed to support all students who need it. Today, 750,000 of them receive grants based on social criteria; Our aim is to bring all these aids together in a single window.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1185.u96	The next speaker is Mr Olivier Falorni, for the Libertés et territoires Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1185.u97	We are all witnessing the precariousness of many young people: at the age when they should build their future, many of them are still trying to feed themselves properly. I was able to see this again in my constituency, alas, a few days ago, in a solidarity grocery store for students run by the Red Cross. We must therefore modernise and adapt the instruments of our solidarity, for example by giving more support to young people whose integration into the labour market is weakened by the crisis. In this context of urgency, the proposals are multiplying: our debate this evening proves this. The Government, for its part, has chosen to rely on the youth guarantee scheme. Why not? but provided that a universal and lasting youth guarantee is created. Some criteria have already been eased, such as the very restrictive fiscal autonomy requirement and the duration of support; These amendments, presented as derogations, should be sustained. Local missions need to be strengthened, in order to go far beyond the target of 200000 beneficiaries and to enable genuine support. It is necessary to go to young people because the scheme, which is not well known, is the subject of a major non-recourse: in 2019, more than 900000 young people were without education, employment or training, but there were only 93,000 beneficiaries of the youth guarantee. In order not to leave any young people at the edge of the road, Madam Minister, Madam Secretary of State, would you be prepared to go even further by offering a truly universal and lasting youth guarantee? What would be your calendar? What additional envelope would you consider in 2021? The worrisome situation of young people requires that we change timidity very quickly.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1185.u98	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1185.u99	You are right: this young guarantee, created during the previous quinquennium, is a good and beautiful answer. It remedyes financial insecurity with a maximum payment of 497 euros per month, but it combines human support. When a young person between the ages of 16 and 25 – 30 if he or she is disabled – needs this minimum income, he or she is faced with other difficulties: access to housing, mobility, purchase of a vehicle if he or she does not live in urban areas and therefore needs a two-wheeler or a car to move around. We have to answer all this. Where did the first advances come from? Maud Petit spoke earlier about building "with" – with those who do, with those who live, with associations. Last November, I commissioned a report from the Youth Policy Guidance Council, the COJ, which enabled us to draw up in connection with this body the universal youth guarantee of tomorrow. But we did not wait until the completion of this work to continue to move forward, to remove the obstacles you mentioned, fiscal autonomy in relation to parents, for a period of 12 to 18 months. Our schedule is quite clear: whenever we identify one of these brakes, we will remove it. How can I go to those who need it most? By multiplying the speakers, by accompanying local missions, by strengthening their human resources thanks to the 200 million announced this week. We need men and women in our territories to get those young people who do not have access to their rights. The drama is only one in two young people – yes, one in two! – does not know what devices he can claim. Should we continue to create new or improve existing ones by making them even more accessible and open? Most of all, it's about getting these kids. In the work we are currently undertaking, we obviously want to rely on the second chance school, the EPIDEs – institutions for integration into employment – and all the local actors of good will to get these young people, whom they know, and not to abandon them on the pretext that they do not know; It would indeed be a double condemnation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1185.u100	Mrs Karine Lebon has the floor for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1185.u101	There was unanimous agreement that young people were particularly affected by the health crisis and, in the absence of urgent and robust measures, could suffer the consequences for a long time. While the situation is particularly dangerous for young adults under the age of 30 who no longer live with their parents, the crisis reveals a terrible French reality: half of the poor are young people. The students are far from being spared and the fact that they are so numerous every day waiting for a food package surprised and shocked. But it adds what we can't see, or less: psychological difficulties, fear of the future, loneliness aggravated by distance – I think especially of those coming from overseas – and even the abandonment of studies when the fight against precariousness mobilizes all the energy and intelligence. This table, supported by countless testimonies, is proof of the obsolete nature of the scholarship system – which I would remind you that 40 per cent of the beneficiaries must work – and of the inadequacy of the current arrangements. No one understands, therefore, that the Government systematically rejects the lines presented to it: you said no to the RSA young people, not to the basic income at the age of 18, not to the individual aid to emancipation and not to the student income. It is known, however, that student wages are the primary cause of failure at university. More than ever, we must find ways to ensure that students can devote themselves to their studies without being forced to work to finance them. A recent survey shows that society as a whole wants such progress. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group. – Mr. Jean-Hugues Ratenon also applauds]] My question first concerns the social emergency: when will a clear and targeted mechanism be created to respond to the distress of the students? And in a more sustainable way, are you going to say yes to the creation of an autonomy allowance accessible to all and a real social status for young people in training? The youth, the future of our nation, awaits your answers, Madam Minister, the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1185.u102	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1185.u103	There are several questions in your question. Food insecurity, first of all: it goes without saying that the Government subsidizes associations that assist students. Wherever people want to help, we accompany them to do so. If social and solidarity grocery stores, for example, are such important places, it is because they are driven by students for students, and because there are not only grocery products, but also human ties and counselling, as well as students who encourage their peers to report that they are not well, who advise them to go to social workers or psychologists, and who help them build their budgets. This peer support is essential. More than 2.5 million meals at 1 euro are now served. Traditionally, when all universities are open, university restaurants serve about 150,000 meals a day. Currently, 100,000 meals are served daily while young people return to higher education institutions at an average of one day per week; The number of students who benefit from it is therefore much higher than those who usually attend university restaurants. As for the overall assistance of autonomy for students, I have already had the opportunity to answer this question: of course we must work on it, but for this we must first identify all the existing aids and make them clear and legible. The access criteria must also be the same. Current support is sometimes dependent on the income of the parents, sometimes not; they can be local or supplemented by aid from local authorities or regions and are not solely dependent on the State. As long as we do not have a state of affairs, and as long as we do not all agree to pour into the common pot in order to create the overall aid of autonomy, we will remain blocked. That is why I continue to work on this issue with student associations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1185.u104	We come to the questions of the La République group on the move. Mrs. Florence Morlighem has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1185.u105	Since 2017, the Government and its majority have been committed to youth. For example, 7 billion euros have been spent on youth employment. This very important budgetary effort is bearing fruit because even in these very difficult times, the employment of young people is continuing and a record number of young people now choose learning, which is the pride of our majority. The health and economic crises associated with the covid-19 that we are going through further reinforce the need for action for young people, and work must be at the centre of the various mechanisms. Young people should not be confined to minima; The fight against poverty cannot be reduced to unconditional financial aid. It is first of all a matter of respect for young people, but also of efficiency. Each young person must be offered a personalized solution adapted to his or her aspirations and desire for emancipation. Young people do not want to be assisted, they want to have the tools to integrate into society. I am convinced that the solutions proposed by our oppositions, such as the RSA young people, do not meet the expectations of young people. Young people do not want to receive an allowance: they want to fit in, work, have the opportunity to demonstrate their multiple talents. The RSA is not a horizon. The promoters of the RSA young people forget to tell our fellow citizens that its implementation would lead to large tax increases, which our majority refuses because they would hinder economic recovery. Madam Secretary of State, can you once again list before the national representation all the mechanisms that allow young people to integrate into society, thus responding to their desire for emancipation, and confirm that France is the country of Europe that makes the most for young people, especially in these very difficult times?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1185.u106	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1185.u107	You mention the differences between the paths, as well as within the youth, which explain our choice to propose to each young person a path, a solution adapted to his particularity. We have a clear objective, integration – whether social or professional – because it allows us to fight in depth and for a long time against precariousness and house arrest. What have we done to achieve this emancipation project? The plan "A young man, a solution" is first and foremost a commitment of 7 billion euros, financed by the recovery plan, which has been debated in the National Assembly and which allows to provide several answers. The first is obviously to accompany companies to hire young people, to trust them. This involves supporting learning with 550,000 apprenticeship contracts. We were winning the fight against unemployment just before the crisis: we were in the right direction because youth unemployment had never fallen so much. We were struck by the crisis; either. What else do we do? We have increased the number of contracts from more than three months, CDD or CDI, to almost 1.2 million for young people under 26 years of age, thanks to the incentive of 4000 euros at the time of hiring. Such a measure is intended to promote employment as such. On the other hand, we are opening up new paths of engagement, with 100,000 additional civic service missions that are also accompanied at the social level: the fellows receive in fact an additional aid defended by my colleague Frédérique Vidal, who can testify to this. Thanks to the joint work we have done, the civic service allowance has been increased to 680 euros for young people who are engaged, especially students. The paths of integration are invidualized, because we believe that we must take a special look at each young person. Whether it's a job path or a CAPEA – a contractualised career path to employment and self-reliance – 600,000 young people are accompanied. We have also built 300,000 special integration routes, made commitments to combat food insecurity... I see time is running out while I'm only at the beginning of this list! In short, the answers are diverse and multiple because the difficulties are also so, but the most important thing is that each young person finds his way and finds an answer.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1185.u108	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1185.u109	Mrs. Nathalie Sarles has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1185.u110	I thank you, Madam Minister, the Secretary of State, for speaking throughout this debate of many arrangements which we can only welcome. When I meet in my constituency the partners of the local mission, Pôle Emploi and the associations, I find that many solutions are offered to them. Perhaps, however, care should be taken to limit the multiplicity of offers, as young people sometimes find it difficult to find themselves there; I am thinking, for example, of two very similar schemes, namely the Youth Guarantee and the AYI, the intensive accompaniment of young people, managed by Pôle Emploi. My question is about learning. It was said: in France, it works. An impetus was given to him in 2018 by the law for the freedom to choose his professional future and the results are there. I believe, however, that there is a sector in which we could and should perhaps strengthen the effort on apprenticeship training: the medical and social sector, on which several Members of the majority are looking. In this sector, some professions are experiencing vocation crises and health facilities – EHPAD, post-care and rehabilitation facilities, geriatric services – are struggling to attract and recruit staff. However, there are skills training, both nursing and nursing, which are costly and sometimes long, and which may merit the development of apprenticeship courses. We would thus respond to the need for support in training but also, in parallel, to the recruitment needs of the institutions. Are there any projects in this direction?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1185.u111	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1185.u112	I will concentrate my answer on learning in the medical and social sector, a subject on which we have of course worked with my colleague Olivier Véran. As you said: it can be difficult for people currently in employment, wishing to progress and resume their studies, to do so other than through learning. Given the tension that exists in some occupations, it is also difficult to dispense with the competence of those who are already working in establishments. That is why we try to encourage progress in studies through learning, in the medical and social sector. This work must, of course, be carried out jointly with the regions, as it is they who direct health and social training. In any case, the demand is growing for apprenticeship courses, whether the alternation between practice and theory is organised on a daily basis, weekly or over long periods of time. The subject is open, particularly in the context of the Segur of Health. It will complement the arrangements that we have already put in place, which, for example, allow nurses to continue their studies as part of specialized master's degrees. The question, which also concerns the nature of the contract – professionalization or learning – is under consideration with my health colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1185.u113	The last question was put by Mrs Delphine Bagarry, in the name of the non-attached Members.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1185.u114	The vulnerability of young people has increased significantly since the onset of the covid -19 epidemic. They have been facing loneliness, financial instability and an uncertain future for a year. The immediate consequence of this epidemic has been adaptation: young people have had to adapt to the isolation that has reduced access to education for some, affected mental health for others, and most importantly has led many to question their future. To give hope to young people and to secure them, give them access to vaccination, encourage the introduction of financial aid accessible to all, encourage the reopening of educational and cultural places! Young people are, together with older people, the ones who are most vulnerable to this pandemic, and it is urgent that the social link between them be restored. At the pedagogical level, vaccination will allow a return to an interactive and accessible education for all. At the social level, the reopening of universities, training centres and cultural venues and sports activities will allow the resumption of collective and interactive activities, lifesaving for all. Finally, in financial terms, the establishment of an emancipation allowance for young people will bring stability and security in the face of growing insecurity. Youth is a time of encounters, sharing and discovery. The construction and personal emancipation depend on these few years, they are based on otherness, on confrontations as well as on communions. The time of youth is short, intense and irreversible. It does not come back: a confined youth is a lost youth, a wasted youth. Madam Minister, Madam Secretary of State, when are you going to develop a strategy for deconfining young people? When are you going to allow the vaccination of young people? When are you going to put in place financial support accessible to all young people? What if young people were asked to share their views with us through broad consultation, which could possibly take the form of a convention? Let's listen to them, give them back confidence in the future! When can we finally give them a life, give them life back?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1185.u115	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1185.u116	Life is always there, that is why we reject the notion of a sacrificed generation: this generation is not dead, it is standing, it is committed, it creates, it is solidarity. While the primary aim of the vaccination plan is to protect those who die first, the President of the Republic has said that, by the summer, all young people and all majors who wish to die will be vaccinated. The momentum you are talking about is built by trusting young people, by highlighting the paths they can take, but also by causing these encounters that are so rare. Last Monday, under the leadership of the President of the Republic and thanks to the work carried out jointly by Frédérique Vidal, Élisabeth Borne, Jean-Michel Blanquer and I, we launched the plan "Un jeune, un mentor". What is the relationship between this plan and the health situation, will you tell me? It is simply the momentum that allows a young person to project himself, to believe in the future, not to be allowed to go to self-censorship, to which it is easier to give in because of the isolation resulting from the health crisis. In the face of this, we respond by the human. As far as the financial aspect is concerned, we assume that a variety of situations and difficulties must respond to a variety of complementary responses. Frédérique Vidal and I share a constant obsession, one that no young person, whether a student or not, knows a break in his career. This is why, for example, the amount of the scholarship can be reviewed if the situation of the parents changes. What justifies a personalized look at each of our young people is that the crisis did not strike them all in the same way. [[Mrs Maud Petit applauds]] The momentum that I am talking about will be felt, in the coming weeks, in this real, lived solidarity, but also and above all in the energy that we will continue to put in the answers given to all young people. These answers are obviously financial and social, but they also lie in the hope, in the momentum, in the morale that we will be able to breathe into young people to accompany them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1185.u117	The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-02-O1185.u118	Next sitting, tomorrow, at 3 p.m.: Debate on Europe; Debate on the necessary changes in the air sector in the face of environmental and economic challenges. The meeting is adjourned.
