ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u1	The next item is the debate on the proposal for a law by Mrs Annie Vidal and others, aimed at securing the social protection rights of maternal assistants and employees of private employers (No 3807, 3977).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u2	Mrs Vidal, rapporteur of the Committee on Social Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u3	First of all, I would like to acknowledge the work of mothers' assistants and homeworkers in direct employment. They play an essential role: to take care of our children, to help families manage their daily lives and to enable people who are vulnerable by age, disease or disability to live better at home and stay there for as long as possible. In doing so, they ensure the solidity of the social fabric. Maternal assistants represent the first mode of care: six out of ten children are entrusted to them. The workers in the home work about 10 jobs with the families who need them, but also with the elderly or with disabilities. They have in common to be employed by individuals and to have, more often than not, several employers. In 2018, there were 3.4 million individual employers, nearly half of whom were considered fragile and expected to receive social assistance. Women are particularly represented in these professions: 90 per cent for home help and 97 per cent for maternal assistance. Their wages do not match their social utility and, although they work part-time, their activity for a day can be long. In addition, they can quickly lose their source of income depending on the hazards of their employers' lives. Beyond this precariousness, they have in common the singularity of their respective sectors and the peculiarity of the employment relationship; What characterizes them is the fragmentation of their profession and the resulting isolation. Moreover, judging by the demographic transition already begun in France, the need for home support will increase considerably. However, the number of employees decreases by 1% each year and their average age is 46 years compared to 41 years for the total working population. Thus, the sector will have to deal with 700000 retirements by 2030. In addition, the health crisis has shown acutely the needs of front-line professionals, in particular for the care of their children, as well as the vulnerability of isolated people to their homes. The workers in the sector have been on the rendezvous and I thank them for that. I also note that the Government and parliamentarians have mobilized to assist employees in the sector who have thus been able to benefit from the schemes of partial activity. Without this unprecedented support, hundreds of thousands of people could have turned into unemployment. As the number of children could not be the same, the homes of maternal assistants – MAM – were able to receive aid to cover the rent charges. I would point out that the law of 7 December 2020 on the acceleration and simplification of public action opened up new possibilities for maternal assistants, such as the possibility of exercising their profession in a third place or of benefiting from occupational medicine, as well as, under certain conditions, unemployment benefits. This is the spirit of this bill: concrete progress towards guaranteeing rights through the provision of supplementary social protection. I agree with the technical dimension of the text. The aim is to accompany the convergence of two branches of industry by consolidating the relevant legal framework. At present, employees of individual employers, mothers' assistants and homeworkers are covered by two separate occupational branches covered by two different collective agreements. The many similarities between these sectors have led the social partners to embark on convergence. To this end, a method agreement was concluded on 21 November 2018 to organise negotiations on the future treaty arrangement. The Federation of Private Employers of France, the FEPEM, and the trade unions in both branches have set themselves the goal of completing their work in the coming weeks. This convergence, which will allow rights to be aligned from the top for employees in both branches, is the result of a work of several years and which all the trade unions welcome. This rapprochement is also based on pre-existing organisations. Thus, the agreement of 19 December 2019 between the two branches led to the creation of a new national joint interbranch association, APNI. This joint association, which acts on behalf of and on behalf of employers, enhances access to training for the employees concerned, who benefit from a right of training from the first hour worked. This is an essential right for the maintenance and acquisition of skills, a guarantee of evolution in a dynamic professional career. The AFN now has the mandate of individual employers and, as such, pays directly to employees the salary and costs of training, which, of course, greatly facilitates access to training. Since January, they have also had access to social and cultural activities through the AFN, and 30,000 people have already benefited from them. This progress improves the daily lives of employees and enhances the attractiveness of the sector. Convergence has also provided an opportunity to consolidate trade union rights, which are essential to combat the isolation of employees. The latter will now be able to participate in congresses or trade union training activities. Finally, particularly important, the future agreement should change eligibility for the retirement premium, thus opening up access to more people. The social partners, in this process of convergence of branches, will therefore have shown that they are actually committed to improving the working and living conditions of these professionals. It's too little, some will tell us; I, for my part, prefer to highlight progress when it is achieved. However, the convergence of branches carries a legal risk which this bill seeks to remove. The provisions on maternity assistants and employees of private employers are laid down in the Social Action and Family Code and the Labour Code respectively. Convergence naturally calls on the branches to integrate all employees into the same scheme. In addition, the two collective agreements in force contain arrangements for the appointment of a social protection body. However, a decision of the Constitutional Council of 13 June 2013 found the designation clause contrary to competition law. The future collective agreement will therefore not be able to establish it, which undermines the guarantee of employees' rights. Indeed, an employee employed by several individuals could, as such, be attached to so many different bodies. The text is intended to correct this point. More specifically, it aims to create a new system for the collection of social security contributions under supplementary protection. Currently, supplementary social contributions – supplementary pension, health insurance – such as compulsory contributions are recovered by the bodies of the general scheme and, with rare exceptions, by the agricultural scheme. In the context of the convergence of the conventional fields of the two branches, this draft law intends to consolidate the legal framework of the future convention. To this end, it is proposed to unify the social contributions collection channels of the two branches by integrating maternal assistants into the scheme provided for in the Social Security Code for employees of private employers. It is also proposed to integrate the FNIA into the collection circuit. It will have a dual mission: to collect social contributions for supplementary protection from the Central Agency of Social Security Agencies, ACOSS, and to select a single social protection body by tender, to which it will pay supplementary social contributions. The integration of the FNIA, centralized management and the choice of a single protection body will ensure that the right to competition is respected while securing the collection circuit. Simplified securities – the CESU, universal service employment cheque, and Pajemploi –, unanimously recognised as effective simplification tools for individual employers, will remain integrated into the circuit. The social partners, on the other hand, will be able to play their full supervisory role in this system to take account of the singularity of the sector. In addition to securing the collection of supplementary social contributions, preserving simplification for employers and guaranteeing the effectiveness of rights for employees, this scheme opens the way for other developments – I am thinking of the right to health at work. [[Applause on the benches of the groups LaREM, Dem, IDU-I and Action ens. – Alain Ramadier also applauds]] Colleagues, as you will have understood, this single-article bill may seem technical; However, this is an important step in the recognition of this essential sector. I therefore count on your support to address with me all the employees and employers concerned a sign of the recognition they deserve.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u4	Mr Le Fur has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u5	I am surprised at the presence of the Secretary of State for Digital Transition and Electronic Communications on the bench of the Government. I have no doubt about his competence – his services are attached to Bercy, which means a lot of things – but several members of the Government are part of his "social pole" which includes, among other things, a Secretary of State for Children and Families. I am therefore surprised that the latter did not take care to be present, whereas it is probably the only text on mothers' assistants and employees of private employers that we will have to examine throughout the legislature. I am well aware, Mr President, that the Government is represented by whom it hears, but for once we are dealing with this subject, the competent Secretary of State is not there. However, it is surprising, I insist, and it may not be very well interpreted by the hundreds of thousands of people involved. We agree with the text that will make it possible to make progress; However, this was an opportunity to have a substantive debate – and for that to happen, we must have an interlocutor, namely, the Secretary of State for Children and Families. He is certainly very busy, like everyone else, but at last he has once, during the legislature, the opportunity to discuss a text on maternal assistants and homeworkers and he is not present!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u6	This is not really a point of order, since it is not the regulation that determines the representation of the Government, but the Constitution. We have therefore heard your reminder of the Constitution, which is fully respected, since the Government, in its view, has the choice of the minister who represents it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u7	The Secretary of State for Digital Transition and Electronic Communications had the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u8	A few words, Mr. Ciotti, to answer you...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u9	It was Mr. Le Fur!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u10	[[Smile]] Excuse me, Mr. Le Fur. The wearing of the mask and the morning character of our work do not facilitate the identification of each other. I do not wish to argue; I will just say that his schedule did not allow Adrien Taquet to be present. He is therefore being replaced by another member of the Government, who, according to the Constitution, is entitled to express himself. I do not believe that this government is using this process more than previous governments, whether they are on the right or on the left. What matters, and we will join on this point, is that the continuity of the state is ensured and that we can achieve the progress – necessary – provided for in the bill. I have no doubt about the mobilization of Adrien Taquet on the subject and on many others that concern the family, I am thinking of cyberharassment or the events that occurred in Argenteuil recently. To get back to the subject we're dealing with this morning, we're looking at a bill that looks like a technical bill – but it looks like it's just a piece of legislation. It will indeed have a very concrete impact for 3.3 million individual employers and 1.3 million employees. I would like to take this opportunity to thank Deputy Annie Vidal, on the initiative of this bill, whose drafting has been the subject of very constructive discussions with the Government and representatives of the profession. The foresight coverage of employees of private employers and mothers' assistants and the recovery of contributions dedicated to this risk are adapted to the specific nature of the sector, in which employers are private individuals who could not satisfy administrative formalities of a complexity equivalent to that of a normal undertaking, in particular that of selecting a contract of provision for its employees. This is why the collection of these contributions is ensured in practice by the extremely simplified and well-known reporting arrangements, the CESU and Pajemploi, as well as all contributions under the compulsory schemes. Pension contributions are paid to a joint national interbranch association, which is responsible for paying these contributions to the insurance body chosen in these two branches, i.e. IRCEM, the supplementary retirement institution for domestic workers. In order to cover the employee's pension, the individual employer must simply declare it through the CESU or Pajemploi. The simplicity of this procedure is the best guarantee of employee protection. As you know, the branches of employees of private employers and mothers' assistants have to merge this year, a development which requires a review of the channels of recovery of the financing of collective guarantees, in particular of foresight, on the one hand because the derogatory recovery circuit, which is very well secured by law for employees of private employers, is not so for mothers' assistants, on the other hand because only the welfare institutions, and not all the types of bodies which can cover this risk, were legally affected by this derogation circuit. This bill therefore secures the collection circuit on a dual basis, extending it to maternal assistants as well as to all insurers. We support this very useful provision. This bill also allows the sector's specificity to be reconciled with the legal framework for the choice of welfare agencies. Thus, it does not seem realistic for each individual employer to choose a welfare agency itself and to sign a specific contract for the coverage of the employee, who also often has several employers. Centralised management within a single body is thus a guarantee of simplicity for employers and of access to the law for employees. However, our legal constraints do not allow us to name an insurer to cover an entire sector. An explicit mandate would therefore not be legally possible. In this context, the proposed law explicitly provides for the payment by the CESU and Pajemploi of the contributions collected in respect of the pension to the AFN and directs the latter to pay these contributions to the insurers. It will therefore be up to the industry to select the insurer(s) where appropriate, obviously in compliance with competition rules. This solution, which removes the various constraints, seems to us to be a satisfactory balance and must therefore be defended. In short, this bill is of dual interest: it preserves the simplicity of the scheme for employers and guarantees the social rights of employees. For that reason, it received a favourable opinion from the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u11	In the general debate, Mr Paul Christophe has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u12	This morning we are considering the bill by our colleague Annie Vidal to secure the rights to social protection of child care workers and employees of private employers. I employ women here because, in fact, 90 per cent of employees of private employers and 97 per cent of mothers' assistants are women. These persons carry out a variety of tasks such as childcare, accompanying dependent or disabled adults, home maintenance or the provision of private lessons. Their action, which is essential to maintaining the social link in our territories, is also an essential lever for preventing and keeping at home in the context of an ageing population. However, we are talking about occupations that are too often deconceived. By enabling their social rights to be secured, this bill expresses the recognition that we owe to all those who work in these professions and thus contribute to social cohesion in our country. Because these employees are more affected by precariousness – almost half of the individual employers being themselves considered fragile – it is necessary to guarantee the effectiveness of their social rights. That is the purpose of this bill, and we can only welcome it. Although their activities are diverse, employees of private employers and maternal assistants often share the same working conditions, the same relations with their employer and the same socio-economic difficulties. Today, however, they come under two distinct occupational branches, each with their own collective agreement. This situation, which now appears to be obsolete, will soon be over when the collective agreement between individual employers and maternal assistants is merged. Such convergence will allow the rights of employees in these sectors to be levelled from the top. The text we are looking at today is intended to accompany this restructuring by centralising and simplifying the collection of social rights from a single operator. It will effectively secure the social contributions of more than 1.4 million employees and simplify the administrative procedures of some 3.4 million individual employers. The economic as well as social stakes underlying these sectors of activity, which each year represent 9 billion euros in wages, call for an adaptation of the social contributions collection circuit to guarantee the effectiveness of employees' rights. For all these reasons, the Group of the European People's Party will vote with conviction in favour of this text. (Applause from a few benches of the LaREM Group. – Mrs Fadila Khattabi, chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs, and the rapporteur also applaud.)
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u13	Mrs Valérie Six has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u14	The text on the social protection of mothers' assistants and employees of private employers, which we are examining today, concerns two professions which fall within separate occupational branches but have the common characteristic of having several employers. We are talking about nearly 317,000 child care workers for more than one million employers and nearly 1.4 million homeworkers for 3.4 million employers. These staff also share certain issues. By 2030, much of the maternal assistants and employees of private employers will retire. The question then arises of the renewal, therefore, of the attractiveness of these two professions. The promotion of these professions is, according to our group, a priority. I also hope that we will not avoid this issue in our debates. To ensure this value, we can trust a very dynamic social dialogue in this professional sector. I would like to pay tribute to the work of the social partners who are working to acquire new rights for these staff and to ensure that their rights are effective. This social dialogue has recently made it possible to improve their pension rights and the effectiveness of their right to training. Today, the social partners have reached an agreement on the merger of the professional branches of childcare assistants and employees of individual employers. The legislator's intervention was necessary in order to secure the collection of social contributions from these employees. The aim of this text is therefore to accompany social dialogue in the implementation of these agreements. The strength of this text also lies in its ability to draw on what the social partners have already put in place to ensure the effectiveness of the right to training. The collection of contributions will thus be entrusted to a single operator, a new organisation which will help to protect these staff from the difficulties inherent in their profession and linked to the presence of multiple employers. The situation of child care workers and employees of private employers would deserve further attention, as these workers are on the margins of labour law. They still have a precarious status while they deserve our full gratitude. In the face of the demographic challenge that awaits us, we know that the majority of French people want to finish their lives at home, surrounded by their loved ones. Thus, all public policies must be able to guarantee freedom of choice for the elderly, which will require strengthening home support. The Great Age and Autonomy Act is expected to be able to meet the expectations of this sector. These workers need to be better heard and given the same rights as employees. In conclusion, I would like to point out that our group is very attached to the social dialogue, which appears to be a great force in this sector of activity, and to the freedom left to it. In fact, we have seen the willingness of the social partners to open up other projects, other debates, once this has been closed. [[The president of the Committee on Social Affairs and the rapporteur applaud]] Our group will vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u15	Mrs Jeanine Dubie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u16	Few are the times when our assembly is called upon to decide on the so-called areas of the home. In the context of the health crisis, however, they have yet to demonstrate their essential role, especially in an ageing country like ours, even though this crisis has exacerbated the difficulties that employees of private employers and home helpers face on a daily basis in the exercise of their profession. Despite the many constraints, all have mobilized to ensure the continuity of the social link in our country. Every day they are at the bedside of our elders or care for our children. In spite of the essential nature of all these occupations, those who perform them must be satisfied with a often modest salary and are faced with a lack of recognition or difficulties of access to training. The El Khomri report on the professions of old age has rightly demonstrated the precarious nature of the latter. The maternal assistants, indispensable in our territories, are unfortunately not left behind. Today, we are given the opportunity to address the issue of social protection for employees of private employers and mothers' assistants within a single system. However, this should not obscure the diversity of their trades and situations. This is why the convergence of their professional branches, if it has fed a lot of expectations on the part of the social partners, must be carried out with great vigilance and, above all, with the consent of all. However, after two years of negotiations on this convergence, unanimity does not prevail. The hearings you conducted, the rapporteur, showed the existence of points of tension. While the trade union organizations of employees of individual employers appear to be satisfied, the unions of the maternal assistants are much more reserved, if not reluctant, for certain terms of negotiation. Our group is concerned about these disagreements between the representatives of the maternal assistants and the Federation of Private Employers of France. These include deductions from wages for sick children, the terms of the trial period and the conditions for obtaining the retirement premium. If we all agree on the relevance of convergence, it is imperative that it advance the collective and individual rights of employees of individual employers and maternal assistants. Having said that, I would nevertheless like to welcome the work done by our rapporteur, Annie Vidal, and to stress the consensus that exists this time on this bill, which will make it possible to secure the collection of contributions, hence the social protection of the workers concerned, in particular the maternal assistants. But I would urge that the measures provided for in this text not be conditional on the outcome of convergence, because these issues are not necessarily linked. Indeed, whether the convergence of branches takes place or not, the simplification of the recovery by the joint national interbranch association, which already exists, will be possible. Our main concern with this new collection route is management costs: they are so far relatively low, we want them to remain so. On the other hand, our group would like to point out that it is important that, in addition to the current skills of the AFN in training and, more recently, access to social and cultural activities, it is essential that it has other tasks – I am thinking of wage guarantees or occupational health. It should be noted that the home-help sector is very affected by sickness, in this case by accidents at work and occupational diseases. This aspect could not be satisfactorily addressed in the consideration of the bill to strengthen occupational health prevention. We know the social partners involved on this issue and hope that this issue will soon be completed. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group. – The president of the Committee on Social Affairs and the rapporteur also applaud]] Our Liberties and Territories Group will vote in favour of this bill because, although unfortunately it is not intended to improve the working conditions, the recognition or the remuneration of all these professionals, whether they are maternal assistants, home helpers or other employees of private employers, it gives us the opportunity to strongly reiterate the urgency to move forward on all these issues.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u17	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u18	"A year ago, on March 14, we found ourselves completely self-delivered, without mask, without gel, without anything. Every night, I sanitized my house: I was seven hours-nine hours and then, for almost an hour, I spent the product everywhere – which I still do. A year ago, the state asked Stéphanie in the Somme, and all her colleagues in the country, to continue their work, to continue for the children of caregivers, cashiers, and drivers. A year ago, the State considered the kindergarten assistants essential... But as soon as the confinement was lifted, it was over: "We received no thanks, no "How are you? " When we had worked alone, abandoned, in fear, we can say, for two months. The bonus, by the way, no one thought of paying it to us. They were forgotten of the bounty, but they have mostly been forgotten of your mandate since then. "Every month in September, it's anxiety," says Marine, and Elsa, saying that, almost overnight, she lost three children, three contracts, because of the move of the parents and a little girl who was entering school, and that Pôle emploi paid only 500 euros for her lost contracts, she fell to 700 euros, concluding "Happily there are the discoveries..." That is the crux of the problem for me: the status of the kindergarten assistants is a bastard, as you know, the rapporteur. In theory, they are wage earners of parents, suddenly inducted employers, but in truth, they are almost self-entrepreneurs, doing business in search of employment contracts that they often write themselves, contracts that they can lose overnight.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u19	Unbelievable to hear that!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u20	"Timetables weigh on family life. Marc blamed me a lot when we split up. I got up in the morning at six o'clock, a nursing mom brought me her kid to take him to the extracurricular, and it ended at nineteen and thirty in the evening. My husband couldn't stand him anymore. From early in the morning until late in the evening, you know her, the rapporteur, as you also know that, despite this, they receive only wages of misery: more than half of them are under the SMIC... Yes, the average wage in this profession is below the minimum wage! "When I lost my grandmother, I announced the death to a mother and my absence for the funeral. That lady told me that there was no question, that it was starting to cause a lot of death in my family. For fear of being dismissed, I refrained from going to the funeral. "It's a very common anxiety for kindergarten assistants: how do we tell parents about her absence? I am thinking of Lucie, whose son enters college and who does not know how to get to the preparatory meeting with the teachers. How can you even take a vacation or get sick? "My doctor called me on Friday to tell me that, given the tests, I had a big concern in my heart and that I had to have surgery on Mondays. You know what my anxiety was? How to tell parents. My life was in danger, according to my doctor, and rather than thinking about me and my 12-year-old daughter, my concern was how I was going to tell the parents. Was I going to lose the contract and how was I going to live? » I could add to the list, Madam rapporteur, Mr Secretary of State, the trainings that take place on Saturdays on rest periods, the difficulties with Pôle emploi and random unemployment rights, this tax aberration which makes meals given by the parents for their children an advantage in kind to declare by the mothers, or the marital breaks that lead to the resale of his house and thus to the loss of his job, three dramas in one. But of all this and many other things, we will not discuss, nor will we discuss the proposals made by Bruno Bonnell and myself in our information report to build them a statute and to assure them an income. That seems shameful to me. The President of the Republic had launched a commission for the first 1000 days under the chairmanship of Boris Cyrulnik, because the first 1000 days of the baby are decisive for his future, for his life, and of course the 400,000 kindergarten assistants are a link. The same President of the Republic said a year ago: "We must remember that our country today is holding on to women and men whom our economies recognize and pay so badly. And among these women, of course, there are the kindergarten assistants. What about when we get there? The only text in your entire legislature that deals with kindergarten assistants, the first and the last, the one we are examining today, is a narrow text, an administrative formality that you even thought, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, to examine in a simplified procedure, that is, without discussion of wages, nor of timetables, nor of training, nor of organisation, nor of anything! The only text on kindergarten assistants is an eighth zone text! The best proof of this is the absence of the Minister of Solidarity and Health and even of his Deputy Minister or Secretary of State for Children and Families on the bench of the Government. They are replaced by the Secretary of State for Digital Affairs, very well, but that is an obvious contempt. I am not saying that you share it, Madam rapporteur, Mr Secretary of State, but this contempt for these women and their profession is rooted in the system: it is a contempt inherited from history, because we think that women who have been caring for children for thousands of years free, they will not bother us now that they are paid a little to do it! This is what is in the unconsciousness of society, and it is from this contempt that we must go out today!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u21	Oh, there!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u22	Mrs Karine Lebon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u23	The draft law before us today is primarily of a technical nature: it draws the consequences of the merger of the professional branch of maternal assistants and that of the employees of private employers, branches covering 1.4 million people, mainly women. The aim of this text is to centralise and simplify the collection of contributions for the social rights of maternity assistants and employees of private employers, following the decision of the social partners to establish a joint association at the level of the merged branch to manage the collection of supplementary social contributions in the area of pensions and supplementary pensions, which are essentially within the competence of the trade union organisations. It is therefore a matter of securing from the legislative point of view the unified recovery of these contributions. This text is part of the process of simplifying administrative procedures and collecting contributions from individual employers, which has been undertaken in recent years in the framework of social security financing laws. While the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left supports this text, we believe it is important to be vigilant about certain points raised by the trade unions, such as the management costs or the new method of collection, which should be supervised by joint control and supervision of the social partners, who guarantee the ethics and respect of employees' rights in the field of supplementary social protection. This general discussion is also an opportunity for us to discuss the particular situation of homeworkers, who play a crucial role in the daily lives of our fellow citizens. As we all know, this sector is mainly characterized by high precariousness and very low wages – at the level of the SMIC or even below –, difficult working conditions and low union representation. These findings have been highlighted in particular in the El Khomri and Ruffin reports, respectively on home help and on the related trades; For example, 17 per cent of home helpers live below the poverty line. One could also mention the situation of maternal assistants or housekeepers, who most often accumulate small contracts and split working hours, and undergo cascade subcontracting. Working time in crumbs is very often the lot of women – yes, the society of the vulnerable is mostly a female society – with all the consequences that we know about their health and their family life. The health crisis has come to forcefully remind us of the social utility of these professions. In the front line during confinements, these professionals now need consideration and upgrading: we owe them the social recognition they deserve. The spread of exceptional bonuses, which remains to the will of employers, cannot be a satisfactory response for these so-called second-line workers. This is why it is necessary for the public authorities to commit themselves in the coming months alongside the social partners to improve the status of these employees by increasing wages, better recognition of qualifications and taking account of the tenability of these essential jobs for our society.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u24	Mrs Christine Cloarec - Le Nabour has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u25	Today we are considering the proposed law of Annie Vidal, which aims to secure the rights to supplementary social protection of maternal assistants and employees of private employers. It is in the context of the forthcoming fusion of the conventional fields of these two branches. Indeed, on 21 November 2018, they negotiated a method agreement to assess the relevance and feasibility of their convergences. The Fédération des particuliers employeurs de France and the trade unions will conclude their discussions in the coming weeks. This bill will make it possible to legally secure the recovery process under supplementary protection by unifying the collection channels of social contributions for all actors in order to ensure that all contributions are recovered under the same conditions. The social partners have already chosen to extend the tasks of the National Interbranch Joint Association. It is currently competent in the field of employment, guidance and vocational training, and its integration into the collection system will also enable it to centrally manage social contributions for all employees. In this capacity, it will be responsible for collecting from ACOSS – the central agency of social security agencies – and from MSA – the social mutuality of agriculture – and will have to choose a single social protection body to which it will pay the related contributions. The objective is twofold: individual employers will see their approaches simplified through a one-stop shop, through the CESU and Pajemploi, and all employees will have guaranteed rights. This text does not aim directly at improving working conditions for employees, but it is a great opportunity to mark our commitment and support for these sectors of activity whose particularities and fragility make it necessary to develop the overall arrangements governing them. On the one hand, we have 1.2 million employees, often precarious, who combine employers, have low wages which rarely exceed the SMIC and are characterised by non-use of their rights and lack of recognition of their social rights; On the other hand, 3.4 million individual employers, nearly one in two of whom is considered fragile because of their age, their situation of loss of autonomy or disability. Beyond securing rights, we also have the opportunity to strengthen the recognition of women's work, since 90 per cent of employees in individual employers and 97 per cent of maternal assistants are women. These fundamentally resilient sectors have been able to cope with the health crisis, with 98% of individual employers reporting that they maintained the activity of their employees during the first confinement. The new collective agreement which will enter into force on 1 January 2022 – subject to its extension by the Ministry – should include major advances for employees, in particular in terms of individual rights: the fixing of a 10% wage increase in the case of work on a holiday, the extension of the days of leave for family events to all employees, the reduction to five days of absence of the child for illness which may be subject to deduction from pay, the fixing of a minimum increase of 10% applied to the remuneration of overtime for mothers' assistants, the end of the equivalences for night work – currently paid eight hours for twelve hours of actual work – and the upgrading of the hours of responsible day attendance and hours of responsible night attendance for employees of private employers. Other important and innovative advances could be added to these provisions in terms of collective social rights. Already, from 1 January 2023 onwards, all eligible employees should benefit from the payment of a conventional retirement allowance taking into account the entire career within the sector and not just seniority with the last employer. The collective agreement should have an occupational health and risk prevention component, with employees also benefiting from improved and unified insurance coverage. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] The evolution of social rights made it essential to secure the collection of contributions for the financing of supplementary social protection guarantees. This is a proposal for a law which is certainly technical but which, in the end, will contribute to the development of the trades of the sector, and a fortiori to their attractiveness knowing that many employees at home in direct employment will retire by 2030 and that 7,000 jobs will be filled. We trust social dialogue. The Group of the European People's Party will vote in favour of this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u26	Mr Alain Ramadier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u27	The proposal for a law to secure the social protection rights of maternity assistants and employees of private employers is part of the merger of the professional branches, launched by the reform of vocational training in 2014 and the law on labour, the modernisation of social dialogue and the securing of career paths in 2016, which set the target of a tightening to 200 branches in three years. The honourable aim was to remedy a form of conventional scattering, but also to pool the resources in order to give more weight to the branches. For the past two years, it has been noted that employers' and employees' organisations, as well as the State, have been negotiating to define the treaty provisions of the new branch, in which employees will be characterised by the heterogeneity of their employers and a particular place of employment. At present, the recovery of social contributions and supplementary social protection contributions is carried out by the general scheme or by the agricultural scheme. The proposal for a law aims to centralize this management within a single body for the whole population covered by the branches, representing a total of 3.3 million employers and 1.4 million employees. Therefore, all contributions will be recovered by delegation from the FNIA. Created in 2018, this association – composed of representatives of professional and trade union organisations – aims to contribute to the development of vocational training. It also has to manage other fields, such as the employers' contribution dedicated to the digital platform for social and cultural action. Clearly, collecting organizations will remain the same, but the agreements will be passed with the AFN, which will become the steering tool for the destination of the collection. This measure would allow for the retention of a single operator responsible for collecting supplementary social protection contributions, including for pensions, and for the payment of these contributions to insurers. It should be stressed that this text is well received by professional and trade union organisations. Symbolically, it realizes the rapprochement of branches while being a purely technical tool. Nevertheless, as I pointed out during the discussion of the text in the Committee on Social Affairs, I would like to draw your attention to two points. First, improvements are still to be considered in the case of kindergarten assistants. I am thinking of the upgrading of the minimum amount of maintenance allowances, the remuneration in case of illness of the child, the conditions of the retirement premium or the monthlyisation of the salary over an incomplete year. Furthermore, while we consider simplification to be a good thing, we must take into account the diversity of players in the sector and the lack of specific training for employers and employees on management issues. As you will understand, the Republican Group is in favour of the bill and will vote for it. (Applause from the benches of the LR group. – The president of the Committee on Social Affairs and the rapporteur, as well as several Members of the LaREM Group, also applaud.)
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u28	Mrs Perrine Goulet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u29	In the preamble, Members of the Dem Group regret that the Group of the European People's Party has opposed the simplified examination procedure, for reasons that are still beyond our control. Indeed, the proposal for a law is more of a welcome technical adjustment than the implementation of a political programme.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u30	That's why!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u31	The various hearings conducted by the rapporteur have demonstrated the full consensus of the industry on this legislative initiative. While the bill we are looking at may seem eminently technical at first glance, its single article does, however, provide a welcome simplification for nearly one million employees of individual employers and 300,000 child care workers. Indeed, it is a matter of concretizing the various stages of facilitating the recovery of their social contributions through the schemes of the employment service or Pajemploi cheques. In view of the merger of the national collective agreement between employees of private employers and that of the maternal assistants which is to take place very soon, it is clear that the unification of the system of collection of supplementary social contributions is appropriate. We fully agree with the scheme proposed by the single article: Historical collecting bodies – ACOSS and MSA – will be associated, by agreement, with the AFN. The latter will fully participate in the pilotage and management of contributions. The agreement will have to provide for the payment of contributions by ACOSS and the MSA to the AFN, in accordance with the principle of shared ownership and at the request of the social partners. It is a practical implementation of the full and complete sustainability of the social dialogue within the branch. The aim is to consolidate the social protection rights of employees in a significant economic sector, which are above all an essential part of our social and family policy with child care assistants on the one hand, and employees of private employers for personal and home services on the other. In conclusion, the Group of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats fully subscribes to the ambition of administrative simplification and reinforcement of supplementary social protection guarantees. Thus, our group will fully support this important measure that will facilitate the lives of many of our fellow citizens. (Applause from the benches of the Dem Group. – The president of the Committee on Social Affairs and the rapporteur, as well as several Members of the LaREM Group, also applaud.)
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u32	Mrs Gisèle Biémouret has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u33	This technical text proposes to centralise and simplify the collection of contributions for the social rights of child care workers and employees of the individual employer, with the AFN as a steering tool, which will be responsible for collecting the pension contributions. The discussion of the draft law is part of the negotiations between the social partners on the convergence of the branches of maternal assistants and that of the employees of the individual employer. With regard to this merger, which is moving towards more simplification and readability, no major difficulties were identified, either during the hearings of the sector's stakeholders – both employees and employers – or during the examination in committee. As I said in committee, there are only a few points of application on which it will be necessary to be vigilant when the new system is put in place: I am thinking of management costs and the criteria of representativeness. It will also be necessary to ensure that the new method of collection is supervised by joint monitoring and supervision by the social partners, who guarantee ethics. The health crisis that we are experiencing has made us aware of the social utility of so-called second-line workers who, through their involvement, have enabled our economy to continue to turn. As can be seen from the latest figures published by ACOSS, the activity reported by individual employers showed a dramatic rebound in the third quarter of 2020, with the exception of maternal assistants. For the latter, the number of private employers has indeed retracted over a year, due to a historical drop in the birth rate – at the lowest since 1945. I would point out that, according to the Observatory of Inequalities, the tax niche for the employment of home staff will cost the State €3.8 billion in 2021 and that, according to a study published in 2018, 44% of the tax credit for the employment of home staff benefits the 10% of the most favoured taxpayers. Beyond the presentation of a flourishing picture, however, I had reminded the committee that many of these workers in the personal services sector have very low wages. For example, according to Ms.Myriam El Khomri's report on the 2019 high-age trades, 17% of home helpers are below the poverty line. However, the future needs are significant: 93,000 additional posts will have to be created over the next five years to meet the needs of people who are losing their autonomy, whose number is estimated at 1.479 million by 2025. In the absence of additional attractiveness, it will be difficult to respond to such an issue. Two days ago, the Prime Minister announced the possibility of paying an exceptional bonus of 1000 euros, defied and exempt from social contributions, for second-line employees. This premium will be up to EUR 2000 for branches and companies engaged in a process of revalorisation of these trades. This welcome announcement will raise a lot of hope, but also a lot of disappointment and even more inequality, as it will be paid to the goodwill of the employer. Auxiliaries de vie, aide à domicile paid in CESU or aide méditaires : with very few exceptions, all those who are employed by private individuals will not be able to benefit from it. Since 2008, high wages have risen two to three times faster than low wages, but low-paid work is essential for the best paid workers. The health crisis was only a revealing factor: the work of some – affluent and benefiting from the overall economic dynamics – is also indirectly the result of the work of others. This is why the Socialist and Related Group calls for the convening of a national conference on social utility, value-sharing and remuneration, as well as the opening of a national interprofessional negotiation on the SMIC and the index point in the public service. We propose to make it compulsory, by branch, to upgrade the classification of the lowest remuneration for the most devalued professions. [[Mrs Fadila Khattabi, chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs, Annie Vidal, rapporteur, and Michèle Peyron applaud]] Like other colleagues, we regret that the text – which will be the only one in the legislature – is purely technical. The Socialist and related groups will nevertheless vote for this bill, which is part of the recognition of the social utility of these professions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u34	Mrs Fiona Lazaar has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u35	Our assembly must decide on a bill that, taking note of the unification of the professional branches of maternal assistants and employees of private employers engaged since 2018, plans to unify the circuits for the collection of social contributions of these professions and to integrate the APNI, created by the agreement of 19 December 2018. The objective of the technical provisions before us is simple, and everyone can easily understand and share it: it is a matter of simplifying the approaches of individual employers and securing the rights to social protection of workers who are essential to our society and who are nevertheless subject to a precarious situation which must challenge us. These are occupations deeply rooted in everyday life, in human relations. I am thinking in particular of living aids, nannies, medical psychological aids, housekeepers, who deserve our recognition and support. If this bill is a first opportunity to move forward, I think we will need more. I would like to commend the work of our colleague Annie Vidal, rapporteur for the text. The bill was welcomed – rightly – with a lot of enthusiasm by the players in the sector. It will in fact secure the rights of 900000 employees of private employers and the 300,000 maternal assistants in our country, while simplifying the procedures for 3.4 million private employers. In this respect, the text is consistent with the positive momentum of the past 15 years, notably through the creation of CESU or Pajemploi tickets, which have been an important step forward in facilitating the process and in asserting the social rights of employees. The text, which responds to a legal and technical need, has a lot of progress and I will vote for it. However, I stress that its examination must also be an opportunity to open the debate to other essential developments...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u36	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u37	[[Mr François Ruffin applauds]] ... concerning these useful but still too often neglected professions While their importance is expected to grow, particularly as a result of the ageing of the population, these professions are already inescapable. As the rapporteur explained, nearly six out of ten children are now welcomed by maternal assistants. In addition, it should be noted that half of individual employers are in a situation of fragility – dependency, old age or disability. In many cases, the people they employ are therefore indispensable help. Beyond the services for which these employees are paid, the social utility of their trades cannot be overemphasized. The latter are also very much feminized: 97 per cent of mothers and 90 per cent of employees of private employers are women. While the Nation has, for the past year, become aware of the essential nature of certain trades, those of the first line, those of the second line, the trades we are talking about today are unfortunately also part of the professions whose social utility is inversely proportional to the social recognition they can rely on, because, behind the figures I mentioned earlier, there are women and men who have to juggle between employers, chain short contracts and periods of inactivity, partial work, all this most often for low-level remuneration. There are also individual employers who are not always aware of their obligations and not always accompanied optimally to fulfil them. I had also warned in early 2019 about the practical difficulties encountered by many of them who wanted to declare an exceptional bonus of activity, the so-called Macron bonus. I am convinced of the need to restore their dignity to these essential professions and to provide them with a fair reward, because they are difficult jobs. And we must simply say thank you, in words and in deeds, to these women and men whose commitment alongside our fellow citizens is precious. There are many avenues for action in the fields of occupational health, improvement of daily allowances, status, training and health protection. I also believe that we should consider ways to encourage individual employers more resolutely to offer additional health care to their employees, whether through tax incentives or care. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] These are subjects which are on the table and which will have to be taken up by Parliament. This seems essential to me, even more so in the context of this economic and social crisis which particularly affects our most precarious, isolated citizens, and in which these professions are more indispensable than ever.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u38	The general discussion is closed. On Amendment No 1, I am seized by the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland of a request for a public vote; on the whole of the bill, I am seized of the same request by the Group of the European People's Party (La République en Arche). Votes are announced in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u39	I now call, in the text of the committee, the single article of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u40	I call Mr Le Fur to speak on the one item.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u41	We do not often have the opportunity to talk about these subjects, which are essential for the lives of many of our compatriots and many families. Well, let's talk about it, let's take the opportunity. The 320,000 kindergarten assistants play an essential role for these families and have experienced an extremely complicated year 2020. They continued to accommodate children while kindergartens and many nurseries were closed. They continued, in very complicated circumstances, because some parents, staying at home, were no longer sending their children or sending them very partially, thus breaking the contract. They were waiting for a minimum of recognition and didn't get it. The Macron bonus concerns a lot of people, but not them: why, when they were on the front line? They were so front-line that we agreed to increase the number of children accommodated from four to six. It clearly showed that we needed them, and we could have recognized it. We had many subjects to deal with. We're dealing with one here, I agree, but there were many others. The right to training must be comprehensive: one is dealing with a real profession, defined by the great law of 2005 and by the first collective agreement of the kindergarten assistants of the same year. Complementary health is also a real debate, which we are not engaging at all today. Modernization, particularly related to nursing homes, is a step forward and demand for many families, a concern for communities: we are not talking about it and I regret it. We had the opportunity to deal with the relationship with Pôle emploi, which is very complicated because, since the kindergarten assistants have several employers, when they lose one, they are partly unemployed, and Pôle emploi is not used to these employees with several employers. It is all the more complicated because, when in a sibling, one stops and the other continues, the information is not always well disseminated. What I got at least in my sector is that, in each of the employment centres, an agent specializes in the unemployment issues of maternal assistants. We could have raised the issue of the exceptional bonus that is coming. What will happen to the kindergarten assistants? Why don't they get it? [[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Mrs Gisèle Biémouret also applauds]] So many opportunities that are not seized today to talk about this beautiful and great profession of kindergarten assistants.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u42	We come to the discussion of the amendments. Mr François Ruffin has the floor to support Amendment No. 3.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u43	First of all, I would like to answer to our colleague from the majority who asks me why. France has opposed the examination of this text in a simplified procedure: it is because it will be the only text in the legislature where the maternal assistants will be mentioned, and it should not be discussed in this Chamber? For other colleagues, this is an opportunity to open the debate beyond this technical question. This is obvious, and that is why we had tabled amendments, endorsing Mr Le Fur's remarks at the moment, on the salaries of the kindergarten assistants – when they have three full-time children, which is huge, they could at least touch the SMIC – on a solidarity fund allowing income stabilization when contracts are lost because children enter school, on a Pôle emploi agent refer in the files of kindergarten assistants... A great deal of progress is possible, and the proposals I put forward with my colleague Bruno Bonnell in a report approved by the Committee on Economic Affairs could have been debated. All our amendments have been considered inadmissible, and I am therefore reduced to tabling editorial amendments – this is the case for the first two, the other two will be more serious – in order to be able to speak and ask these questions. I do not understand that what will be our only debate about the kindergarten assistants will take place in such a narrow setting, preventing us from discussing more generally their schedules, their salaries, and everything related to the organization of this profession... I withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u44	Mr François Ruffin has the floor to support Amendment No. 5.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u45	He's out.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u46	Mr François Ruffin has the floor to support Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u47	I listened carefully when you spoke in the gallery, ladies and gentlemen, and in most cases you said "maternal assistants"...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u48	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u49	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u50	...and you're right, because women make up over 98% of the profession. It is not a question of defending inclusive writing, of confounding the struggle on the transformation of realities with a fight on words, but one reaches in grotesque when a profession is so largely female and the small percent of men in this profession prevails over the remaining 99%! One might say that it is because the objective is that more men enter the trade – and probably the trade would be more respected, unfortunately, if it had more men – but that is not the case today. I therefore invite you to change the title of this bill by writing "maternal assistants" to the extent that this corresponds to an extremely massive reality.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u51	No, they say "nurses and nurses"!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u52	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u53	Before I respond to this amendment, I would like to say two words. I am well aware of the situation of all the employees we are talking about this morning, mothers' assistants and employees of private employers. The new framework of the collective agreement will pave the way for branch negotiations. We know that many advances are still to be made for these categories of professionals. This has been the case for many years, as you have reminded us, and we can also wonder why nothing was done earlier. In response to this amendment, the use of generic masculine in the title to refer to these professions ensures the clarity, readability of an already fairly technical text...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u54	No, but wait...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u55	... in accordance with the objective of constitutional clarity and intelligibility of the norm, recalled by a decision of the Council of State on the November 2017 circular on the rules for feminization and drafting of texts published in the Official Journal. It goes without saying that this neutral formulation takes into account both men and women. Feminizing the title of this piece of legislation would be tantamount to treating these professions as purely female, whereas there are men there. Our fight for equality between women and men is played every day by concrete actions, not by measures like those you propose. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Mr. Frédéric Petit also applauds]] In fact, your own group has tabled many bills with only male titles. This title should read neutrality, which refers to men and women. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u56	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u57	Mr Ruffin, two remarks. The first is that it is the Secretary of State for Digital Affairs who sits on the bench: given the consensus on the subject, I doubt that it is, as you say, an underlying contempt. But let's go to the end of the reasoning: if the fact that the Secretary of State for Digital Affairs is on the bench on a proposal for a law concerning kindergarten assistants is the expression of an underlying and unaccepted contempt of society, then he goes to the ranks of La France insoumise, where I do not see much mobilization, apart from you, on a subject that you consider absolutely essential. We must start by sweeping in front of his door.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u58	He represents his band, at last!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u59	If the subject is absolutely decisive, come in force, make sure that President Mélenchon is present: start by convincing your own colleagues! [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM Group – the president of the Committee on Social Affairs and the rapporteur also applaud]] Then, your speech on feminization of the title is the worst example of commitment to mix. The fact of choosing a neutral title for a profession usually devolved in a very majority way, I think that everyone is aware of it, to women, expresses precisely the refusal of an assignment, of an assimilation of the profession of maternal assistant to a female profession. If you think that the fight is led by the feminization of titles, it is rather on the feminization of other bills that you should be mobilized. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u60	Mr Marc Le Fur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u61	What is certain is that maternal assistants find it difficult to understand that a term other than "maternal assistants" is used; It's the end of their daily lives, of their lives. I regret that, at the meeting held this afternoon in Mr Taquet's office with the representatives of the kindergarten assistants, the Secretary of State for the Family is not there.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u62	If he's not here, he's somewhere else!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u63	I regret that because we would have had the opportunity to talk about the aftermath of 2020. Mothering assistants, who have given a lot, do not benefit from the Macron bonus: that is their subject, and we do not treat it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u64	That's not the point!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u65	That is what I am blaming the Government. It's a real miss, a lack of recognition. Recognition must not be just an appearance, it must be ringing and stumbling.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u66	Mrs Jeanine Dubie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u67	Mr Ruffin is quite right in this fight: we must defend these professions which need recognition and an improvement in their wages and working conditions. That said, while 98% of kindergarten assistants are women, I think we need to encourage men to practise this profession. The few who already do so sometimes find it difficult to obtain accreditation from social services precisely because they are men. That the title bears "maternal assistants" therefore poses no problem to me. To conclude on a trait of humour, we have at least in common, with my colleague Ruffin, the fact of favouring minorities, of not excluding them: therefore encourage men to practise this profession.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u68	Mrs Fiona Lazaar has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u69	I thank Mr Ruffin for raising the debate on the feminization of trade names, or at least for drawing our attention to the need to give both a female and a male name to trade titles. I myself conducted this fight during the examination of the bill creating the position of principal or principal of school, whose title we managed to change to reflect the word "principal". I therefore regret that Mr Ruffin's amendment does not propose to indicate in the title of the bill both the male name and the female name of the profession – "maternal assistants" – which would have included all situations and led me to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u70	You can under-amend him!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u71	This fight is fair. The position of women must be recognized in all trades and especially in those, such as the one we are talking about, who are highly feminized. It is therefore a pity that the title of the text does not contain the words "maternal assistants".
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u72	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u73	I fully agree that my amendment should be amended to write "maternal assistants".
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u74	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u75	To claim that it is in the name of the clarity and intelligibility of the debates that we have written in the title of the bill "maternal assistants" and not "maternal assistants" has absolutely no meaning! How, then, does this have to do with the intelligibility of this hypertechnical text, which contains a multitude of acronyms to which we do not understand anything? Writing "maternal assistants" while this profession has only 2% men is anything but neutral!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u76	It's called the French language!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u77	I understand that men must be encouraged to do this, and I obviously share this objective, but to do so, masquerading the name of the profession is not enough. Above all, it is necessary to guarantee income and status for these professionals...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u78	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u79	... so that they cease to regard the occupation of maternal assistant as a mere supplementary occupation which brings an additional income to the spouse's main salary – that is how it is now considered, as the income of the nursery assistant usually complements that of his companion. Finally, Minister...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u80	Madam Minister! Feminize!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u81	[[Smile]] You're making half-time changes! No wonder we're lost! [[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] However, I would like to conclude my answer to the Secretary of State for the Digital Transition, since he followed this debate – before leaving him along the way.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u82	I'll pass it on to him!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u83	I have not heard anyone speaking on the Government's benches on the substance of the matter, in this case the status and income of the kindergarten assistants. What do you answer to the questions that exist about the organisation of the profession and the fact that the training takes place on rest time? On these important points, silence prevails within the Government. I call on you to support this amendment, ladies and gentlemen, especially since it is far from maximalistic. As Mr. Le Fur said, in real life, we never hear of "maternal assistants"!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u84	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u85	I would add that it would be a good idea to reflect on the evolution of the trade name. Kindergarten assistants are not "assistants" – they perform a full and complete function – and their tasks are not simply "maternal".
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u86	I put to the vote Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u87	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 67 Number of votes cast 61 Absolute majority 31 For adoption 13 Against 48
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u88	Mr François Ruffin has the floor to support Amendment No. 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u89	As a follow-up to the previous amendment, this amendment proposes to replace the word "employees" in the title with the word "employees". At 80%, individuals employed in private employers, whether they are life attendants or maintenance workers, are women. There is therefore no reason why the male should prevail over the female in the title of the bill. I call on the majority, if they wish, to amend this amendment in order to make both the word feminine and the word masculine appear, but the massive feminization of this profession needs to be recognised, especially since it is accompanied by ill-treatment linked to the history of patriarchy in our country. For centuries, it has been considered that caring for the elderly, sick children and children in general is by nature the responsibility of the women assigned to the home. In its unconsciousness, society considers that they should be satisfied today since they are now paid, albeit very little, to perform tasks that they once carried out free of charge! History continues today, as evidenced by the ill-treatment of the connected trades. We would therefore gain, on the symbolic plane – although we must also act on the substance; We have made several proposals in this direction – to recognize women in the title of the bill. Only 4 per cent of the streets have women's names in our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u90	That's not the point!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u91	It's really not much! And today you choose to replace the feminine with the masculine in the title of a text on kindergarten assistants... Maybe that's not the point, but it's a lot!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u92	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u93	Unfavourable notice for the same reasons as previously set out. It should be remembered that this bill is primarily a text of social utility, which will benefit 1.2 million employees and 3.4 million individual employers.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u94	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u95	The Deputy Minister for Self-Government has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u96	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u97	Mrs Laurence Trastour-Isnart has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u98	It is essential to make more men's occupations too feminine, a fortiori in the early childhood and education sectors. Why? To prevent our children from growing up only with images of women and to promote tomorrow the mix of jobs in these sectors. We must encourage men to invest in early childhood and education so that, from an early age, children can be built from women's and men's references, to develop an open mind and to be able to enter a variety of occupations later on. The aim is to ensure that women are not confined solely to the professions of personal services. I salute the work of the maternal assistants, which is a difficult job. The Government was currently working on a decree on custody arrangements, but that topic should be the subject of a full legislative text, which was considered by Parliament.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u99	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u100	Early childhood professionals, whether working at home or in care facilities, face many difficulties. I regret that their fate is suspended from a decree which, once again, will be taken in catini. Their expectations are high. The number of children in their care, which is already very important, cannot be expected to increase. According to the texts, only one person can currently be charged with five babies, but this number could rise to seven: it is absolutely inconceivable for professionals in early childhood care facilities, as well as for assistants and maternal assistants, who regularly see an increase in the number of children entrusted to them!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u101	Nothing to do with the bill!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u102	[[Applause on a few benches of the LR group]] If these professionals agree to take care of new children, it is often to increase their income, because they often have financial difficulties. But caring alone for more than three young children at home is very complicated, in addition to being dangerous for children!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u103	Mrs Fiona Lazaar has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u104	Let me make one final comment on the title of the position of maternal assistant or maternal assistant. It would probably be useful to ask ourselves about the words it contains, because in fact these professionals assist parents and not just mothers. (Applause from a few benches of the LaREM Group. – Mr Maxime Minot also applauds.) [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Perhaps this name was originally justified, but at a time when we are fighting for equal rights and for a better distribution of parental responsibility, would it not be time to imagine a new name for this profession?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u105	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u106	I agree with my right-wing colleague, Laurence Trastour-Isnart: men should be encouraged to invest in early childhood jobs and should not be reserved for women. However, it is not by masquerading the names of these trades that more men will be attracted. The bill should have contained measures to make the occupation of child care worker more attractive to men in terms of status and income.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u107	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u108	The only text of the legislature devoted to this profession does not propose any measures to this effect and therefore endorses the status quo according to which this profession is above all a female profession. I would add that the High Council for Equality between Women and Men considers that "the use of women clarifies a text since it makes it clear that women are also referred to there". [[Murmures on the benches of the LaREM group]] As for the title "maternal assistant", in reality neither of the two terms is appropriate, since the function held by these professionals is not maternal, but parental; In addition, it is not a mere place of assistants that they hold when they care for a child all day long in the absence of the father and mother. The title should therefore be rewritten in order to clearly express this recognition and, why not, to choose the title "Young Children's Educator". This is, in my view, the direction that should be given to this profession, which should be reflected in training measures and the determination to change the profession. This will does not exist today, on the contrary, since, as Laurence Trastour-Isnart has pointed out, the Government is planning to issue a decree on childcare and to increase the number of children entrusted to early childhood professionals, which will, in fact, reduce the cost of supervision. This is likely to lead to wage dumping for the benefit of child-care workers, who benefit from an increase in their income at the same time as they receive more children. As for the reception facilities, they will certainly be able to offer more places, but to the detriment of the quality of care during these "first 1000 days of the child" so dear, we are told, to the President of the Republic!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u109	I put the whole bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u110	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 75 Number of votes cast 75 Absolute majority 38 For adoption 65 Against 10
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u111	The next item is the debate on the proposal for a law to improve the health system through trust and simplification (No 3898, 3971).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u112	The Deputy Minister for Self-Government has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u113	The text that brings us together today at second reading is a major text that translates the commitments of the Ségur de la santé and reflects our confidence in the players in the health system, who have been facing the unthinkable for more than a year. The Ségur de la santé was not an umpteenth consultation before a report was placed in a drawer. The Segur of Health, these are phenomenal sums put on the table for unprecedented revalorisations. Together with the Prime Minister, we launched the investment component on 9 March. As for the upgrades, they were signed on 13 July in Matignon and benefit all medical and paramedical staff of the public hospital. They were extended to the staff of social and social institutions and services attached to public hospitals by agreement on 16 February. Negotiations are continuing to make these professions more attractive. Beyond these revalorisations, long awaited – very long! – Beyond ages and alternations, the Ségur de la santé has made it possible to make a solid and shared diagnosis of our health system and to give it a life-saving breath. Whether it is investments to look forward with confidence, governance to allow the legitimate participation of those who care or the expansion of the skills of health professionals, we have not avoided any topic. Still, it was necessary to transform the test and give the force of law to our commitments. That is what Mrs Stéphanie Rist, the rapporteur of the Committee on Social Affairs, is proposing. This text is being considered today after a first reading in the National Assembly and the Senate, with each chamber, whose sovereign work I commend, having made improvements to it. Let's make it clear: the text as amended by the Senate obviously had many qualities, but it sometimes took direction that would in some respects have undermined essential balances. The text we are looking at today, which is the result of your debates in committee, seems to be more in line with the expectations of governance, thanks to a better association of caregivers, students and users to combat medical acting. I thank each and every one of you for the work of enriching and consolidating the committee, which will, of course, continue in the House. The Ségur de la santé called for the rehabilitation of the role and place of the service within the hospital to put an end to the excesses of the law "Hospital, patients, health and territory" – HPST – including a recommendation from the report submitted by Professor Claris. This bill also responds to an old demand, reinforced by the health crisis, which aims to allow health institutions to have greater freedom of internal organisation at the hands of local actors. The crisis has shown that collectives of care know how to adapt, organize themselves, overcome very sensitive situations without having to wait for an agreement, a validation, a green light from above. If, in a hospital, the communities agree to adapt the medical organization in order to adopt a governance somewhat different from that of the neighbouring institution, what would justify preventing them from doing so? We must continue to make progress on hospital democracy. The text proposes that a representative of non-medical staff, a representative of health students and a representative of the users, who we have to learn, should sit in the Executive Board of public hospitals. It seems self-evident; However, that was not the case. We owe it to paramedics, students and users, because the experience we have lived, whatever it may be, has its place when it comes to making decisions. During the parliamentary work, we wanted to strike a balance with the Ordinance on the conditions for the application of Article 37 of the Law on the organization and transformation of the health system – OTSS – which concerns hospital groups in the territory – GHT – and was presented yesterday to the Council of Ministers. In the future, group medical committees will be decision-making bodies in the life of these institutions. Consequently, the missions of the medical establishment and grouping commissions and their chairpersons are reviewed in response to the recommendations of the Claris report, which set the course we are following. That is why I will be defending with my colleagues a few coherent amendments. We are committed to the reform of hospital governance; She is emerging with the help of those who will co-chair the destinies of the public hospital in our country. In addition, the Government is committed to the fight against the mercenarism of the medical interim, which disrupts the provision of care in our territories and undermines the finances of hospitals. I would also like to thank you for coming back to the rapporteur's initial drafting on this important subject. The text makes it possible once and for all to make effective the regulatory ceiling of the medical interim by obliging the public accountant to reject any payment above this ceiling, and we would like to welcome the amendments adopted to this end in committee. The text also gives concrete expression to some of the proposals that emerged this summer during the Ségur de la santé, in particular the extension of the scope of competence of certain professions – I am thinking in particular of midwives and certain paramedical professions. Extending the scope of acts open to these professions means choosing trust and efficiency. We are betting that our health care system will be able to meet the challenges it faces only by breaking with the chapel feuds and square meadows in which some would like to lock us. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] I wanted to go back to the main thrusts of this bill because they are all changes expected by the players in our health system. Ladies and gentlemen, I look forward to seeing the Segur of Health again being debated in this House and look forward to our discussions becoming concrete realities. I once again commend the work of all those who have enriched the text and who will help give it the strength of a promise on the ground. I have no doubt that we will succeed in moving forward together and for good on matters that cannot wait any longer.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u114	I call Mrs Stéphanie Rist, rapporteur of the Committee on Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u115	We are meeting in a new reading to discuss a bill whose objective is – I would remind you – to improve our health care system by pursuing what the law "My Health 2022" had initiated, that is, first and foremost to give more confidence to the actors and simplify their daily tasks. This proposal is in fact the translation – much expected by the professionals concerned – of several leads from the Ségur de la santé. Unfortunately, as you know, the Joint Joint Committee that took place two weeks ago did not allow us to reach an agreement with our honourable senators. I deeply regret that; However, I would like to point out that the parliamentary shuttle has made it possible to enrich the text, perhaps even more than usual. It first clarified the initial provisions of the bill; They have evolved during debates, both in the Assembly and in the Senate, in committee and then in sittings. I welcome these developments which show the seriousness of parliamentary work and the added value it can bring. Above all, our work and those of the Senate have brought new topics to our hearts as parliamentarians that are essential to the field: I am thinking of the real advances that will benefit some professionals such as massage therapists, speech therapists or occupational therapists. Thus, at the end of its first reading by our two assemblies, the bill, which originally consisted of fifteen sections, now includes nine assents or deletions and forty-six are still under discussion, while seventeen new articles were added by the Senate. A number of proposals from our Assembly have been the subject of consensus, which is reflected in the articles adopted in conformity. This is particularly the case with the extension of the powers of midwives, since the Senate has adopted the articles allowing them to finally prescribe and renew work stoppages of more than fifteen days. This will help both to better recognize their skills and to reduce inequalities in access to care. The Senate has also adopted most of the articles aimed at simplifying the governance of mutual organizations. The provisions voted on will help to protect the mutuals and the logic of solidarity they promote. We have also agreed on the simplification of procedures for persons with disabilities. This project, considered a priority by the majority since the beginning of the legislature, is experiencing a decisive progress through the creation of a digital platform to centralize the efforts undertaken by these people and their caregivers. Several provisions adopted by the Senate are real advances for our health care system; they should be preserved. I am thinking in particular of the extension of the competences of certain health professionals and I therefore welcome the possibility for occupational therapists to prescribe medical devices and in particular technical aids. I also welcome the extension of the competence of speech therapists in the adaptation and renewal of medical prescriptions for speech therapy. Unfortunately, the gap between our two chambers has emerged on several points of the bill. In the Committee on Social Affairs, we have come back to all these points, re-establishing the drafting of the House each time. This is particularly the case with regard to the cooperation protocols provided for in Article 1a, to which I attach great importance. This allows health professionals working in teams to engage on their own initiative in a cooperative approach to better meet the needs of patients. The implementation of these protocols has recently been simplified by the law on the acceleration and simplification of public action, known as ASAP, and the Assembly has adopted, on my initiative, provisions to extend them to the medical-social sector and to the coordinated exercise in the city. The Senate, on the other hand, has gone back to the provisions of the ASAP Act, making it much more complex or impossible to bring these protocols into force; In committee, we have therefore reinstated the article in question in the drafting of the National Assembly. With regard to hospital governance, I am pleased that the Senate shares our vision of the fundamental principle set out in the bill, which is to restore room for caregivers. We also agree with some concrete proposals, notably from the Claris report. However, there were significant disagreements on several issues regarding hospital governance and its renovation. These differences concern in the first place the dissociation of the articles of association between the director of care and the chairman of the care committee, in Article 6. This measure, which is not requested by the actors in the field, on the contrary, would destabilize governance and undermine the attractiveness of the positions of director of care. The Senate also removed from Article 9 the possibility for students to be members of the Executive Board; And that holds me personally very close to heart. On these key issues of hospital governance, the commission chose a return to the National Assembly's editorials. Finally, a fundamental divergence has emerged concerning the necessary fight against the drifts of the medical interim. It was obviously inconceivable that we would confirm the outright deletion of section 10 from the Senate's public sitting. We need to be as firm as possible in order to combat these abusive methods. We have therefore adopted in committee, on the initiative of many colleagues, the re-establishment of this article in its version adopted in the House at first reading. In summary and in conclusion, the committee addressed this new reading in a spirit of openness with regard to the Senate's proposals, without abandoning the fundamental contributions of the bill as adopted in the Assembly at first reading. The text discussed today has evolved over successive readings, but it has now been completed; he does not have the ambition of a great health law – such an ambition has never been his – and much less of a health emergency law. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] It does, however, meet the promise in its title: to improve our health care system by building confidence in the actors. The extension of the powers of a number of medical auxiliaries shows this, as does the simplification of cooperation protocols, both in the hospital and in the city and in the medical and social sector. I therefore invite you, ladies and gentlemen, to maintain the great balance of this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u116	In the general debate, Mrs Sabine Rubin spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u117	As an extension of the Ségur de la santé, this bill has in its very title a strong ambition: to simplify our health care system. Simplification and confidence, this is a rengaine that, from the ESR – higher education and research – to the school and the organisation of public life, has lost nothing of its prime freshness! Tréve de jeurie: I will say at the outset that this bill does not respond in any way to the serious problems facing our health system, whose pandemic crisis has highlighted the robustness, of course, but also the flaws and dysfunctions. Again, it is primarily a matter of managing a shortage of financial and human resources, a long-running and chronically organized shortage, a shortage that continues to weaken and complicate quality management for all. Yet we should radically break with this harmful vision of our public health, that of the "new public management" and the ever-changing mantra of "doing better with less" of which public hospital groups are translation. In the absence of a budget path to match the stakes, medical coverage looks like a skin of grief... On this point, Articles 3 and 4 are not to reassure us. They concern the simplification of the procedure for recruiting hospital practitioners who, in order to meet the pressing needs of certain territories, may ultimately facilitate the breakdown of national status. This will result in the completion of a national competitive recruitment process, which, in order to qualify as a hospital practitioner, strengthens their independence and facilitates the possibilities for transfer and career development. By entrusting the recruitment of staff to directors to the detriment of the national management centre, the door is opened to the precarization of the entire profession. Of course, there are positive elements here or there. This is the case with the extension of the statute of limitations granted to certain medical and paramedical actors, in particular to midwives who find there a genuine recognition of their profession. Recognition of the role played by functional units in hospitals would also be a step forward if it were accompanied by a genuine democratization of the method of appointing heads of service, i.e. an election by their peers and no longer an appointment by the director alone, who places them de facto at the latter's discretion. With regard to the overall organisation of the hospital service, it would have been more appropriate to rethink the functioning of the supervisory board, in particular in the light of what was once the board of directors: a body bringing together representatives of all professionals and users, with a real right of veto over the annual budget and the establishment project, chaired by a local elected representative whose everyone could see and salute the essential role during the crisis. Another point which arouses the anger of those who are committed to the right to health, recognized by our Constitution: the possibility offered to liberal doctors, who operate in certain health facilities which guarantee a public service mission, to carry out excesses of fees. This real regression, confirmed in committee, will justify the tabling of an amendment by our group. Articles 1 and 1a AA have had various fortunes, following successive changes in the text. The opening of advanced practice to anaesthetist nurses is in the direction of better taking into account their profession and experience. However, concerns persist within the profession about their possible connection to nurses in advanced practices, which would result in various minorities: less advanced training, no competition, less hours, territorial heterogeneity only academic and not university hospitals. While the proposal to put in place information reports on the creation of medical assistants seems to be a wise step, we remain vigilant about the risk of creating a two-speed medicine, which would somehow restore 19th-century health officers. Finally, there is one aspect of the text that is of particular interest to me: the one that affects school health, and more specifically the situation of school nurses. The text introduces the concept of coordination in future medical units involving nurses, school doctors and social workers. In addition to setting up a medico-centered service and the concerns expressed by school nurses about possible hierarchical subordination within these future units, there is a concern that this is again only a management of the shortage. We fear that school nurses will eventually perform the duties of school doctors. For all these reasons, the members of the La France insoumise group will vote against this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u118	Mrs Karine Lebon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u119	Their situation is so ubiquitous that I cannot start this intervention without referring to the urology services in Réunion. To resolve a conflict between practitioners, the General Inspectorate of Social Affairs – IGAS – decided to close the urology department at the northern site of the university hospital in June. It will abolish this public service, in contempt of the patients it invites to go to the southern site of the CHU, already saturated, and to the private. This decision is not only shocking, it is inadmissible for those who experience La Réunion's record rates of chronic renal failure. Deputy Minister, the Reunions cannot afford this managerial psychodrama. They are waiting for their health to be at the centre of decisions. The text which is now being reread and which aims to improve the health system is quite different from the original bill. Initially, the aim was to translate the organizational and non-financial measures resulting from the Segur of Health of July 2020. It should be recalled that this agreement has been found largely insufficient by the healthcare staff, particularly in terms of the financial resources available and the salary adjustments lower than the demands. The agreement continues to leave behind thousands of social workers working in health facilities. They too deserve to benefit, as well as their fellow caregivers, from the decided index increases. From fourteen to forty-one articles, this text is a tote of which it is difficult to see the overall coherence. The first part aims at reorganizing the skills of the medical professions and developing advanced practices, but it is doubtful whether these can respond to the context of a shortage of medical resources. Other measures include more flexible recruitment rules for hospital practitioners, freeing themselves from the usual procedures, without ensuring better coverage of health needs. In fact, what emerges from reading the various provisions is the logic of deregulation, which does not provide structural responses to the real challenges facing our health system and the public hospital. As far as the hospital is concerned, you always apply the same recipes. Some measures are in the right direction – opening up the governance of hospitals to new actors, or giving doctors back prerogatives in the organisation of services – but others risk prolonging hospital malaise. In this way, you plan to strengthen the full power of hospital groups in the territories without any assessment of their usefulness, even though they often contribute to hospital restructuring or to the pooling of resources at the expense of small hospitals. You make it mandatory to set up a management component in each hospital. By preserving the spirit that inspired the latest reforms of the state, you are continuing to introduce private management rules in the public health service, according to logics of profitability that have been denounced for so many years by the healthcare staff. But the health crisis shows us, in pain, that it is precisely this neoliberal ideology that must now be stopped. You keep an addition from the Senate on the possibility for doctors to exceed fees in private health institutions of collective interest – ESPIC – while these practices are a barrier to access to care for our fellow citizens. The main measure of the very last part of the text, devoted to disability policy, is the creation of a digital information platform. This platform is entrusted to the Caisse des dépôts et consignations and is intended to facilitate the administrative procedures of persons with disabilities and their caregivers. What will be its real contribution to the people concerned? Would it not be better to facilitate physical access to public structures to accompany these people? In the end, this bill gives the impression of a DIY used as a legislative vehicle to take measures that will probably not change the hospital malaise, the challenge of medical desertification or the deficiencies in health democracy. Nor does this text provide for any way to facilitate the drawing up of death certificates at home, when the expectations of the families are so great on this point, particularly at home in Réunion. However, the health crisis strongly reminds us that new means are needed in our hospitals to hire health workers, open beds that continue to be lacking and raise wages. More stringent and effective measures could also have been taken to address the shortage of doctors in our territories. I am thinking of the opening of health centres allowing a grouped and paid exercise, or of a selective agreement on the installation of doctors. And I am just mentioning the silence on the valorisation of the geographical coefficient in Réunion, which, Ségur or not, continues to be the object of an end of non-receiving. In the absence of any real improvements to our health care system, our group will vote against this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u120	Mrs. Annie Vidal has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u121	We are still at the heart of the covid -19 epidemic, which has led to a national awareness of the need to fundamentally reform our health system. The conclusions of the Ségur de la santé invite us to take up this challenge, which is proposed in this bill. This text is the result of a concerted approach, attentive listening to the representatives of the actors on the ground, many of whom have participated. Parliamentarians have made a significant contribution to this debate in the National Assembly and then in the Senate, with the constant goal of improving the daily lives of caregivers and patients. Since the Joint Joint Committee could not be concluded in spite of this, we shall therefore resume our discussions. As part of this new reading, the Social Affairs Committee of the National Assembly has retained certain proposals from senators, which supplement, clarify and correctly clarify the text of the law. I am thinking in particular of interoperability in HHTs, the new possibilities offered to employees of certain ESPICs, and the designation of a reference midwife. Some provisions, which were removed by the Senate as real advances for medical and paramedical professionals, were reinstated in committee. In particular, we have expanded the scope of expertise of midwives and massage therapists. It is a sign of recognition to professionals and concrete measures to facilitate access to care. The scope of prescription for occupational therapists is being expanded to allow these professionals to prescribe medical devices and technical aids and to renew medical prescriptions for occupational therapy. In institutions, Ségur has made the promise of more participatory governance, more flexible governance, and better adapted to the realities of the field. We reaffirmed it in committee by opening the Health Facilities Executive Board to health care staff representatives, health students and users, and by including a managerial component in the establishment project. Finally, we have taken steps to combat the costly drifts of medical acting and to control the irregular accumulation of activities more effectively. We also re-establish the Director of Care as Vice-President of the Medical Care Commission when it is appointed. Our group proposes additional provisions. In this way, we are introducing new measures to address conflict of interest situations within the Executive Board of Health Facilities, allowing for delegation of authority from the Director. We also want to broaden the reflection on the assessment of pay differentials across all sectors: private non-profit, private public interest and public interest. The crisis of the covid-19 has in fact revealed strong inequalities in the distribution of professionals in the territory. By providing a shared and transparent picture of remuneration according to the specialties, mode of exercise and territory, this study will help to better assess the impact of remuneration on medical attractiveness. The aim of this bill is to provide pragmatic responses to the expectations of health actors, to improve access to care for patients and to revitalize the hospital. In this way, we will help give new life to our health care system. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Mrs Fadila Khattabi also applauds]] The La République group on the move will vote in favour of this proposal for a law in confidence.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u122	Mr Jean-Pierre Door has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u123	This bill could have been much more ambitious, coherent and, above all, more consensual, particularly with regard to the so-called simplification measures it contains. No doubt she has a moment of illusion with her title, which is supposed to meet the expectations of the Ségur de la santé. The more time passes, the more a certain amount of stress arises, both in the public sector and in the outpatient private sector – the great absence of your text, unfortunately. It must be noted that this does not address the structural weaknesses and the remoteness of the territorial problems highlighted by a health crisis from which you have not yet learned the lessons. We give you our comments, Madam rapporteur. Despite your first reading backwards and the catch-up of the Senate, this text, at the new reading stage, has become quite talkative and without a founding vision. It does not address the ills of the health system and therefore will not produce any real change. The disparate nature of the measurements is inadequate to provide a clear vision. And one can only regret the absence of a real break in the organization of the health system and the treatment of the root causes of its ills. The real shock of simplification would be to reform all administrative and financial rules in order to give hospitals flexibility and a new capacity to act. As for the GHT, they inspire a real disappointment. By assigning additional skills to dominating GHTs, you do not support the place of local hospitals, yet privileged places to meet with city medicine. You do not introduce flexibility in the status of institutions and staff, with a view to modern and attractive human resources management. And why turn your back on successful institutions, such as in Valenciennes, and like some ESPICs such as the Foch Hospital or the Montsouris Mutual Institute? According to the Académie nationale de médecine, "The hospital crisis is in a very visible way a management crisis that seeks to keep the decision away from the ground. Modernism requires the opposite, i.e. to reduce hierarchical lines. The self-powered bureaucracy generates waste of professional time and undue costs. » Academicians, in particular with regard to the CHUs, formulate recommendations to which we are sensitive: governance ensured by an administrative, medical and academic triumvirat; territorial reorganization of the health system; use of a public-private partnership for the patient's follow-up journey.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u124	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u125	The Senate wanted to improve the text from the first reading in the National Assembly. It has refocused its purpose by deleting or modifying certain articles. It thus removed Article 1, which tended to create an intermediate medical profession – a measure rejected by healthcare professionals. But you come back through the small door, proposing a report that we consider unnecessary. With regard to the hospital – the very "hospital-centered" nature of the bill – you want to question the choices made by the Senate in sections 4, 5 and 6, whether it is focusing on the territorial health project, governance in public health institutions, the representativeness of the nursing commission or the principle of the election of its chairman by its members. One can only be hostile to mercenary activity, which prevents the hospital from financing attractive measures for the benefit of statutory practitioners. But we do not want the director, faced with the question of maintaining certain specialities, to be the only one to endorse the fight against abuse. In conclusion, the expected shock of trust and simplification is not at hand; This is widely shared by the various actors involved. The Republican Group considers that the solution to the two main ills of the public hospital, the over-administration and the lack of attractiveness of the posts, is more a matter of political will than of legislative provisions. In this area, therefore, the bill does not bring anything useful. And to the extent, Madam rapporteur, that you are about to re-establish most of the problematic measures contained in the original text, the Republican Group is considering abstaining.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u126	Mr Cyrille Isaac-Sibille has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u127	Since its first reading last autumn by this House, Mrs Stéphanie Rist's bill, which aims to translate the Segur's non-financial measures, has come a long way. A sometimes sinuous path, but one that shows, if necessary, the importance of the parliamentary work provided by the two chambers to enrich, correct or improve the provisions of a text. The Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats want to approach it by adopting a global vision. We want to foster a mix of modes of exercise, capable of integrating all health facilities – whether public, voluntary or private –, community hospitals and liberal actors: this is the spirit of the work we have done since the beginning of the legislature in connection with the plan "my health 2022". We welcome the progress made. The first concerns midwives: in view of their expertise and the needs in the field for care, it was necessary to extend their prescribing capacities. Similarly, it was necessary to combat the excess pay generated by medical acting, a subject on which our group has invested a great deal at first reading. The phenomenon has only increased in recent years; If medical acting may be useful, it is necessary to place safeguards. Now, with the provisions of article 10, public health institutions will be better equipped to combat abuse. Our group also welcomes the re-establishment of the position of Head of Service in hospital centres. It took ten years after the law on hospital reform and on patients, health and territories to see how essential this function was for the proper functioning of our hospitals. However, we believe that it is necessary for university representatives to be included in the process of appointing heads of departments in the UHCs. The aim is to strengthen interactions between hospitals and universities. We will also make proposals to that effect when we consider Article 5. You want to simplify things, it's good, but don't partition! With regard to article 1, as amended at first reading, we hope that the Government will promptly submit the planned report, as we look forward to the effective follow-up to it. The Social Affairs Committee has already dealt with this issue; We are convinced that the fact-finding mission it set up yesterday, of which I have the honour to be rapporteur, will enable the national representative to make proposals on this subject quickly. Many differences have therefore been smoothed out, but there are still some bitterness. The first concerns private health institutions of collective interest – ESPIC. As you know, we are deeply committed to equal treatment between health facilities. The health crisis has shown the importance of the three pillars on which our system is based: the public, the non-profit private and the private. But while Article 4d, introduced by the Senate, goes in the right direction, it only concerns the minority – they are less than ten – of private non-profit institutions that operate with liberal practitioners. It therefore does not solve the difficulties of the vast majority of ESPICs, which work with employees. We cannot be satisfied with this, and that is why we will be proposing, as in committee, an amendment to extend the scope of the article to all ESPICs. On the other hand, Madam Deputy Minister, we are waiting for you to clarify the announcements that the Prime Minister made last week regarding the path of valorization of hospital practitioners working in these structures. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group]] The examination in the Committee on Social Affairs last week has restored most of the balances found at first reading, while retaining some useful features resulting from the upper house's examination of the text. We therefore approach this new reading in the constructive and demanding state of mind that characterizes us. Our group will support the bill, hoping that its most emblematic measures can quickly come into force.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u128	Mrs Gisèle Biémouret has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u129	In a context marked by a protracted health crisis, this bill appears to be more and more out of step with real needs, whether it is the reform of the hospital system or access to care. This text has the ambition to transpose the non-budgetary measures of the Segur of Health – five out of thirty-three. Since its first reading by this House, when our health care system is again under unprecedented strain, its objective is more than ever lacking, to be summed up in a series of measures with no guidelines and no coherence. Unfortunately, the initial defects were not erased. We remain convinced that it is a matter of lightness to legislate in this way, without the support of an impact study or an opinion of the Council of State, but by providing for greater use of prescriptions, on such important issues as hospital governance and the relations between different health professionals. Little has been learned from the pandemic we are experiencing, and none is translated into this text. Important health issues remain unresolved, including those related to funding, the organization of liberal medicine and hospital, coordination between hospital and city medicine... Our honourable senators did not make a mistake, as they added seventeen new articles. At first reading, I had expressed at length our opposition to the measures you are proposing for local hospital groups, the consequences of which will be serious for the autonomy of territorial hospitals, particularly in rural areas. I repeat, these guidelines run counter to what your plan "my Health 2022" calls for, by giving more powers to the HEG support institutions and further removing the responses to the needs of users. However, there is a need to maintain specific governance in these institutions. The hospital does not need more management or margin adjustments, it needs reforms and attractiveness. We see this in our territories: staff are gradually leaving the public hospital, competed by the private sector, which offers better remuneration. Instead of trying to increase the attractiveness of hospital careers, you introduce counterproductive measures such as individual volunteering or the possibility for a GHT director to create a hospital practitioner position. Up to the satisfaction you show, many of the proposed measures do not satisfy health care professionals, whether they work in public hospitals or in the city. The cacophony around Article 1e r offered a flagrant example, but it is not the only one. The evolution of the missions that you propose, and those that you do not envisage, are a source of confusion and discontent. Yet, expectations are high. We believe, for example, that it is legitimate to change the status of state-qualified anesthetist nurses – IADE – by recognizing them, as they wish, the exercise in advanced practice. We therefore recommend maintaining Article 1 bis AA, which seeks to amend Article L. 4301-1 of the Public Health Code to this effect. For our part, we want to reorganize the hospital and its governance in order to refocus them on health care and public health, not to manage the shortage, but to prepare the hospital for future crises. With this in mind, the Socialist Party recently presented its proposals on health. In particular, there is a need to engage in wage dialogue with all professional care sectors, in which too much suffering remains. For the past year, we have seen our vulnerability. It would be foolish not to learn from it. In-depth reforms are needed to care for the hospital and to enable it to play its role in a health system that must rebalance itself to community care, thus from the city. That is why the Socialist and related group will still not vote for a text which the shuttle has not improved and which, we repeat, contains provisions whose consequences, which are very heavy, have not been assessed, in particular for local hospitals.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u130	Mr Paul Christophe has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u131	The committee's consideration of this bill has resulted in the restoration of most of the provisions adopted at first reading by the Assembly. This is in particular the case of Article 1, which provides for the drafting of a report to draw up an inventory of the exercise in advanced practice and the cooperation protocols: it has been re-established in part by an amendment by the Group of the European People's Party. We welcome the adoption of this text, because the original text provided, somewhat prematurely, for the creation of an intermediate medical profession. The report will set out proposals to simplify, improve and accelerate the deployment of the systems concerned, in order to pursue the dual objective of opening up the health professions and improving access to care. We can therefore rejoice. The bill also includes advances that I would like to welcome, such as the extension of the skills of midwives and massage therapists. The supervision of medical work, which was reinstated in committee thanks to an amendment by our group, is also one of the very positive aspects of the text. We are satisfied that the deletion of section 7, which was intended to systematically assign to the support institution any post of school principal left vacant in an establishment that is part of an HHT, has been confirmed. The establishment of a common direction must be the culmination of a cooperative approach, in close consultation with local actors. To impose it unilaterally, as provided for in this article, was not a good method and raised real fears in local hospitals and community hospitals. With regard to article 14, which provides for the creation of a national digital information platform for carers, we had reservations about how departments should be involved and the usefulness of creating an additional layer, which could be redundant with departmental actions. However, the examination in session has removed this concern by ensuring that the platform will not replace the current physical and telephone reception arrangements for the information and conduct of the procedures of persons with disabilities and those accompanying them. I know, Madam Deputy Minister, your constant commitment to simplifying the day-to-day lives of caregivers, and it was not a matter of making access to information more complex. The platform will thus be a complementary tool, a simple information website not intended to replace departmental action. [[Ms Stephanie Rist, rapporteur, and Ms Michèle de Vaucouleurs applaud]] In conclusion, I welcome the work of our colleague Stéphanie Rist and thank her for changing the text during the hearings and debates in committee. In view of all these advances and the inclusion in the draft law of certain provisions of the Ségur de la santé, the Agir ensemble group will vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u132	Mrs Valérie Six has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u133	The bill that we are considering today in a new reading raises, by its title, "Improving the health care system through trust and simplification", many hopes among health care professionals. Indeed, we can only agree with the objective of involving healthcare staff more closely in the management of the hospital, which was the main meaning of the agreement concluded by the Ségur de la santé, signed by the social partners. While the various articles that give institutions more flexibility to organize freely and encourage recruitment are not a revolution, they seem to us to be in the right direction. That is why we supported the bill at first reading. I also welcome the developments made during the discussions on the midwifery profession: the possibility of referring patients to a specialist doctor; the finding of incapacity for work for more than 15 days; expansion of the scope of prescription. These provisions will not lead to confusion in the logic of the coordinated care path, structured around the treating physician, but will, on the contrary, make it possible to simplify the path of patients, a direction that is welcome and in line with the objective of the bill. However, I call on the minister responsible to be vigilant, because we cannot extend the scope of professional intervention indefinitely without improving their status. In addition, the provisions introduced by our fellow senators, despite the failure of the Joint Joint Committee, have been maintained by the Social Affairs Committee: the authorization given to medical analysis laboratories to carry out certain vaccinations, which we hope to be able to extend to pharmacists pharmacies for internal use; the association of departments, reference levels for autonomy, with the definition of the services offered by the platform created by Article 14; the official recognition of advanced practices for anaesthetist nurses, whose training has been equivalent since 2014 to a master level 2; direct access to speech therapy – a device that the Government wishes to remove, against the opinion of the main trade unions representing general practitioners and that of the Social Affairs Committee itself. However, because of the incompleteness of the measures it contains and the very hospitalo-center vision which inspires it, the text will not provoke a shock of simplification or promote a massive mobilisation of the health system which will reduce social and territorial inequalities in this field. The text does not say anything about our organization's ability to understand the diversity of health conditions in the territories in order to correct the most alarming situations. These are the result of an industrial past, economic specificities, fragile social situations, demographic characteristics – characteristics necessarily different from one region to another. Our group has long hoped that health policy will be more deconcentrated and that the regions will be able to pursue a policy of recomposing the supply of care. It is therefore desirable to give greater latitude at the regional or territorial levels, in order to better adapt policies to the realities of the territories and to local needs. The expected review of the 4D bill – decentralization, differentiation, deconcentration, decomplexation – would be an opportunity to address this issue. Finally, the draft law concludes with a chapter on the medical and social sector, including the creation of a single information and support platform for persons with disabilities and their caregivers. However, with regard to this sector and that of autonomy, we hope that your ambitions are greater. All actors in the age, disability and home are waiting for the promised bill before the end of the quinquennium, and national representation is ready to discuss it in the light of the consultations that have already taken place. We need to improve our health care system, to improve the health of French people and the working conditions of those responsible for it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u134	Mrs Jeanine Dubie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u135	Last November, as we began our consideration of this bill, the Libertés et territoires group had made known the frank questions it had raised with regard to this bill. The first of these was a question of timing: it seemed hasty to put this bill on the agenda when the Ségur de la Santé had just delivered its conclusions and the Segur follow-up committee had just been set up. All the actors concerned were surprised by this lack of consultation, which resulted in the months of negotiations leading up to the Segur. The second question, undoubtedly related, was the inadequacy of certain measures in relation to the realities of the field. I am thus referring to Article 1, which, in its original wording, provided for the creation of an intermediate medical profession, or to Article 7, which proposed a common direction by the GHT support institution in the event of a vacancy in a part-time establishment. Fortunately, the House has come back to these provisions, and I am pleased to see that the Senate has moved in our direction. Nevertheless, the failure of the Joint Joint Committee to draw up a common text is not surprising. The criticisms expressed by the Senate about the heteroclite nature of the text and the lack of vision that characterizes it are indeed legitimate. I remain convinced, however, that a consensus could have been reached on many of the provisions of this bill, but that was not to mention the health crisis, which was in addition to the one that the public hospital has been going through for several years. In such a context, it is quite normal that ambitions should be revised upwards. Our work is viewed with severity by health actors, which is all the more legitimate given that we are experiencing a resurgence of Covid-19 cases and that hospitals are being submerged again, making even more use of already exhausted health professionals. Despite the disagreements, the Senate has adopted a number of positive measures, often in line with those voted in the Assembly, such as the extension of the competences of certain health professionals, in particular midwives, anaesthetist nurses and massage therapists, or the provisions relating to the internal organisation of the hospital, which can better adapt to local specificities. On the other hand, my concerns remain with regard to the status of hospital practitioner or HHT. It is difficult to legislate on this subject when some of the ordinances issued by the Health System Organization and Transformation Act have not yet been implemented. I regret that the two Assemblies have not found consensus on the issue of advanced practice. In our view, consideration must be given to the training and remuneration of the medical assistants concerned. As a result, midwives regularly see their skills expanded without ever improving their status, especially in the hospital. The case of anaesthetist nurses, who must be able to benefit from the status of medical auxiliaries in advanced practice, will also need to be looked at in more detail. We will return to that during the discussion, since I understand that the Government would table an amendment to delete Article 1 bis AA. I had already seen this at first reading: despite some positive measures, the bill remains timid in terms of the issues at stake. This is true with regard to hospital governance – which, as we know, takes the needs of the territory and the health care providers poorly into account – and it is even more so with regard to the working conditions and remuneration of healthcare professionals, on which the bill remains silent. On these aspects, the Segur of Health has given rise to a lot of hope, but also a lot of frustration. On the occasion of the Social Security Financing Bill for 2021, we welcomed wage adjustment measures and investments, despite their lateness and inadequacy. Since then, the Government has made announcements to correct certain deficiencies relating to agents of public social and medico-social structures. However, there are still forgotten Ségur: the private social and medico-social sector, home care workers, specialized educators for adults with disabilities, who regularly mobilize so as not to be neglected again. All of us will have to provide an answer. As for the health system as a whole, which is breathless, it needs a massive and sustainable support plan in the face of a long-term health crisis.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u136	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u137	I now call in the committee's text the articles of the bill on which the two assemblies have not been able to reach an identical text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u138	I call Mr Borowczyk to support Amendment No. 141.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u139	The aim of this amendment is for the report referred to in Article 1 to examine the deployment of advanced practice and to consider a specific label that can be applied to all professions within the scope of care, able to serve the interest of the patient and to foster cooperation between teams. Health professionals regularly develop skills, as has been seen with the pioneers of advanced practice nurses. Some professions, such as anaesthetist nurses, particularly mobilized because of the coronavirus crisis, deserve special status. The report should therefore clarify what advanced practice is, in order to propose to each profession a specific label to recognise the gains in skills and responsibilities and to facilitate the delegation of certain tasks. Like the status of IPA – a nurse of advanced practice – this label should be adapted to the professions and not cover too wide a field.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u140	The rapporteur, Mrs Stéphanie Rist, has the floor to give the committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u141	I am very much in favour of this amendment, since I myself proposed such a labelling for the definition of intermediate medical professions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u142	The Deputy Minister has the floor to give the Government's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u143	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u144	Mr Cyrille Isaac-Sibille has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u145	Our group is very much in favour of this amendment, because the anaesthetist nurses, who are very involved with the health crisis, deserve our consideration: they have done particularly long studies, which justify granting them a specific status – which would not necessarily be that of nurses in advanced practice. It is therefore desirable that the report requested from the Government should address this issue; For its part, the fact-finding mission on the subject will also make proposals.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u146	Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u147	I know anesthetic nurses are out there. If they agree to come together around the concept of auxiliaries in advanced practice, they will nevertheless have to be aware of their specificity, particularly their training, which already makes them "practitioners" in advanced practice rather than APIs. I do not know whether the amendment takes their specificity into account. If that is the case, I will vote for it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u148	I will give the floor to several speakers for brief statements. Mr Jean-Pierre Door has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u149	In its original wording, article 1, which was intended to create an intermediate medical profession, had given rise to terrible controversies. We all criticized it before the Senate abolished it, on the ground that an initial assessment of the work of nurses in advanced practice had been passed in 2018-19, under the My Health 2022 Act. Given that there are still only about 500 people in IPA today, honourable senators have probably considered that it is still too early to look into the matter and that instead of providing a report in six months on the state of the art of the exercise in advanced practice, it would be better to allow time for IPAs to develop in all areas. In these circumstances, it seems difficult to validate Article 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u150	Mr Julien Borowczyk has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u151	Contrary to what Mr Door has just said, the creation of a specific statute for the exercise in advanced practice will help to highlight certain skills, including those of anaesthetist nurses, which are obviously recognised.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u152	Mr Paul-André Colombani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u153	I once again welcome the work of the anesthetist nurses, who have been in great demand for the last year because of the crisis of the covid. Amendment No. 141 certainly allows for progress, but the provision introduced by amendment in the Senate and which the Government is about to abolish also responds to one of their demands. Why not give them such satisfaction on this point?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u154	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u155	There are many reactions to the subject. The floor is for Mrs Perrine Goulet, whose group has not yet spoken.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u156	I thought I would speak only on Article 1 bis AA, but since the two articles are linked, I am determined to speak. I recently received anaesthetist nurses in my office, who were satisfied with article 1 bis AA. I am therefore surprised that we are again offered to take the time to reflect: I fear that we will reserve a first-class funeral...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u157	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u158	... to these professionals who have been on the bridge for a year, both during operations and in resuscitation services. In the long discussion I had with them, because I, too, received them directly, they explained to me why they approved the drafting of article 1 bis AA. Maybe they don't all agree. In any case, there is obviously a problem. It would be better to check what is happening before we delete Article 1a AA, which does not prevent us from voting on Amendment No 141. This would give us time to work on the subject. [[Applause on the benches of the LR, GDR and LT groups]] It would seem dangerous to delete Article 1a AA in favour of Amendment No 141.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u159	Mrs Sereine Mauborgne has the floor to support Amendment No. 156.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u160	Without preempting the treatment of Article 1e r bis AA, I find it important to recall that the evolution towards the status of nurses in advanced practice would be a major step forward for the profession. The project has been in business since Roselyne Bachelot was Minister of Solidarity and Social Cohesion. It was adopted in 2017. We must now make it live, without prejudging its results. In our working group and in liaison with nurses, we asked for an assessment during the screening week. Mr. Door indicated earlier that it concerns about 500 professionals, which is relatively small, given the number of establishments they work in and the number of missions that could be assigned to them. In line with the previous amendment, the aim is for the report provided for in Article 1 to examine the desirability of enabling state-qualified anaesthetist nurses to become a medical profession with defined competence. This would avoid compromising the success of the system for state-qualified nurses in all areas of expertise that they have already been given.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u161	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u162	I suggest that the amendment be withdrawn, given the adoption of Amendment No 141 and the fact that a task has been entrusted to the orders of nurses and doctors on the advisability of creating intermediate medical professions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u163	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u164	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u165	Is the amendment retained, Mrs Mauborgne?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u166	No, Mr. President. I'll take it off. We stated in Article 1 that the mission should address the issue of the status of massage therapists. It seemed interesting to me to call on the Government to be vigilant and to study the case of this particular profession.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u167	Mr Bernard Perrut has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u168	The debate is important. In a few moments, Madam Deputy Minister, you will propose that we delete this article that recognizes the advanced practice of state-qualified anesthetist nurses. It is well known that these professionals need legitimate recognition, as their cooperation with doctors is essential. Their areas of expertise, which can be reduced to anaesthesia, are very extensive: resuscitation, emergencies, SAMU – urgent medical aid service –, SMUR – mobile emergency and resuscitation structures –, pain management... Their training has allowed them, rather than acquiring a specialty, to be multidisciplinary, which gives their activity a unique cross-cuttingity in the nursing field. To treat patients in serious condition, the doctor-infirmary binome can exercise in the field of echoing, emergencies, within the operating rooms, as well as imaging and resuscitation trays. There is also the involvement of state-qualified anaesthetist nurses in the transport of patients and their ability to cope in difficult times, for example in the event of a health crisis or an attack. The covid-19 pandemic has revealed their full place. At the national and international level, many learned societies agree that these professionals already practice in advanced practice. We stress in passing their delegated autonomy alongside the anaesthetist physicians reactivating. That is why we are calling for the continuation of Article 1e r bis AA added to the Senate, which tends to recognize the advanced practice of nurses in their field of competence and ensure the sustainability of their profession. We do not understand why an article that seems to be unanimous, in any case in our institutions, could be called into question by the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u169	Mrs Valérie Six has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u170	In a moment, Madam Minister Delegate, you will call on us to vote for an amendment to delete Article 1a AA, which aims to encourage the deployment of the practice in advanced practice of certain medical aids, by integrating the regulated profession of anaesthetist nurses into the existing legislative framework. The committee had, however, voted to maintain this article, which is indispensable for the realization of some 11 million anesthetics per year. The anaesthetist nurses, who demonstrate daily autonomy in the management of anaesthesia – after the development of the strategy led by the responsible resuscitator doctor – wish to be able to be recognized as a profession in advanced practice. This would be an important step forward, given the quality of their university-hospital training and their experience. The passage into advanced practice will make it possible to recognize in the law their current daily practice and to protect their achievements. Let us not go back on this long-awaited development.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u171	On amendment No 162, I have a request from the Republican Group, as well as the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left, for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mrs. Annie Vidal has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u172	[[Protests on the benches of the LR group]] I ask for a suspension of the sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u173	She's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u174	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u175	The meeting was resumed. The Minister-in-Office has the floor to support the deletion amendment No. 162.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u176	He proposes to revisit the recognition of state-qualified anesthetist nurses as medical auxiliaries in advanced practice. Given their current skills and the scope of their training, anaesthetist nurses cannot be assimilated to APIs. Nurses' skills in advanced practice, including prescribing, are more like the expertise of a medical practitioner. Advanced practice implies, on the part of the professional, an overall assessment of the patient in the context of an autonomous diagnostic and therapeutic approach, which is not carried out by the state-qualified anesthesiologist nurse, who intervenes in a technical field under the exclusive control of the anaesthetist doctor. On the other hand, it is relevant to consider the application of advanced practice, including nursing specialties. For this reason, the Government has given a favourable opinion on the adoption of the amendment to reflect on this issue in the context of the report provided for in article 1. Therefore, I propose that you delete this article. Most importantly, it is the actions that we are taking in the context of the Segur of Health, and that are decisive. The July agreements provided for the revalorisation of the salary scales of the carers, before 1 January 2022: 740 million euros, it is still not nothing! [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] As part of this work, IADE, like other professions, is expected to benefit from an improvement in their remuneration and an improvement in the attractiveness of their careers. Thus, you can see that the upgrading and recognition of these professionals are on hand. With regard to the exercise of their competence in advanced practice, we prefer to reflect on this in the context of the report provided for in Article 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u177	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u178	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] The committee has not voted on this deletion amendment. Personally, I am convinced that, ultimately, the drafting of Article 1 bis AA does not satisfy the concerns of anaesthetist nurses. And I regret once again that at first reading we abandoned the idea of creating an intermediate medical profession – an idea that the various opposition groups now seem to defend after first rejecting it – because the skills and the degree of autonomy of IADE, like other professions – I am thinking in particular of surgical nurses – would justify that they fall into this category. We must therefore move forward on the issue of intermediate medical professions, whatever the name they are given, and on the status of professionals in advanced practice, in which the IADE could find their full place. But I do not think that the current wording of the article is of great help to them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u179	Mrs Karine Lebon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u180	Like all of you, I've been very much solicited by the IADE collectives. They are very concerned and consider that the deletion of this article would be tantamount to denying their specificity.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u181	Not at all!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u182	They supported the idea of changing the nursing profession and the deployment of nurses in advanced practice to solve some of the problems that arise in the current health system. That is why I asked for a public vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u183	Mrs Emilie Bonnivard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u184	I am surprised that the Government is proposing this deletion amendment when, as we know, the medical profession, nurses and anaesthetists are very much in favour of the drafting of the Senate. We have the opportunity to respond immediately to their request. Why refuse them? While the IADE have a master's degree 2 and their autonomy in the delegated practice of anesthesia and resuscitation is recognized by the anaesthetist-reactor doctors who supervise it, it would be paradoxical that this specialty cannot be exercised in advanced practice. It is simply a matter of recognizing in the law the daily practices of anaesthetist nurses and protecting their achievements. Contrary to what you have said, Madam Deputy Minister, their activity is completely cross-cutting. It is not limited to anesthesia but includes the patient's overall perioperative clinical analysis, inter-hospital transfer, pain management, etc. Anesthetist nurses simply want to have a status more in line with the reality of their practice, that of medical assistants in advanced practice. It is the strength of bicameralism that gives us the opportunity, during this parliamentary shuttle, to improve the situation of this profession. Let's grab her! I understand your arguments, but they're not up to expectations. We will naturally vote against the Government's amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u185	Mrs Gisèle Biémouret has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u186	Like many of you, I was asked by the IADE; I want to support them. It is incomprehensible: in the context of a pandemic that is likely to worsen and while resuscitation services are on the front line and overloaded, not listening to IADE is tantamount to showing contempt for them. We could decide to create a mission on the evaluation of APIs to establish a classification of all advanced practices. Indeed, although this status has existed for several years, we know little about it. The question also arises for surgical nurses, whose practice is just as specific. Thus, it would be wise to withdraw this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u187	Mrs Nicole Dubré-Chirat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u188	As a former health professional who has practiced in resuscitation, I would like to stress that anaesthetist nurses are essential professionals in the care of patients, whether in the operating room, the UAS or the wake-up rooms, in a complementary way and in coordination with the anaesthetist-reactor doctors. They have achieved significant progress by seeing their training placed at Master level 2, in recognition of the skills acquired, and by obtaining a raise in their salary. Since then, we have been working on the introduction of IPA training – which has been difficult to complete – to allow nurses to coordinate with multiple stakeholders and to take care of polypathological patients. Today, it is not possible to propose an equivalence between IADE and IPA because these are two different trajectories: one results from a specialization, the other from an orientation whereby, according to professional experience, one differs from the profession of nurse. If it is possible to provide for an equal level of diploma, salary and salary development within the Ségur framework, we cannot accept automatic and unilateral equivalence, since the opposite would not be true: a nurse in advanced practice in the emergency sector could not automatically become anaesthetist nurse.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u189	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u190	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] As a result, we would risk devaluing the IPA training that we have had so much difficulty in creating. For all these reasons, we will support the Government's amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u191	Mrs Perrine Goulet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u192	Madam Deputy Minister, I have just read out the summary statement of your amendment and I have a question for you. "The skills of APIs, particularly with respect to prescribing, are more similar to the expertise of a medical practitioner. Advanced practice implies on the part of the professional a global appreciation of the patient, a diagnostic and independent therapeutic approach. This is not the case for IADE, which intervenes in a technical field under the sole control of the anaesthetist doctor. » Does this mean that you want to subject anaesthetist nurses to a status less favourable than that of APIs? The wording of your statement of reasons may suggest this.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u193	Exactly! She's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u194	Advanced practice is a specialization after three-year nurse training, while an anaesthetist nurse, after this training, must acquire two years of professional practice and then undergo training for two years, three years more than the IPA.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u195	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u196	[[Protests on the benches of the LaREM group]] So I would like you to explain to me the discrepancy between what you said earlier and the summary statement that is to say that the IADE will be offered a status that is lower than that of APIs. The explanatory memorandum is not clear on this point. We need to know what we're talking about!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u197	Exactly, Mrs. Goulet!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u198	Mrs Jeanine Dubie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u199	Like my colleagues, I would like to express my astonishment: while the two assemblies had agreed on these provisions, since the article introduced by the Senate was taken over by the Committee on Social Affairs, we are finding an amendment to delete them this morning! It is a lack of respect for Parliament and an infringement of its work. Anesthetist nurses meet all the internationally defined criteria to qualify advanced practice. By drawing the consequences of their degree level and of the cross-cutting competences they exercise, Article 1a AA must guarantee the attractiveness of the sector; We must not lose sight of him. We understand all the less your willingness to delete the article because IADE are now particularly involved in resuscitation services. I fear that the report provided for in Article 1e r will serve only to make us accept this decision, which would not be correct.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u200	I put to the vote Amendment No. 162.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u201	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 79 Number of votes cast 76 Absolute majority 39 For adoption 39 Against 37
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u202	I have before me three identical amendments, Nos 43, 64 and 88, which tend to delete Article 1a A. In this article, I am seized by the Socialist and Related Group of a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Amendment No 43 by Mr Jean-Jacques Ferrara is being defended. Mrs Gisèle Biémouret has the floor to support Amendment No. 64.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u203	We have indeed called for a public vote on this article, which we propose to abolish, because we do not think it would solve the difficulties encountered on the ground, which are primarily due to the lack of resources and staff allocated to school health. I recently met a school psychologist who, because of an overload of work, had not been able to meet the students of a kindergarten since the beginning of the year, while they would need his support.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u204	Mr Paul-André Colombani has the floor to support Amendment No. 88.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u205	Article 1bis A was adopted by our assembly at first reading, before being deleted by the Senate and then reintroduced in committee when the text was being reread. Its objective is to re-establish within the Ministry of Education a kind of health service composed of doctors, nurses, psychologists of national education and social workers who will have to work together in a coordinated manner. Such a health service already existed in the 1980s and had been dissolved. Therefore, we find it difficult to understand the reasons for this reversal.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u206	What is the committee's opinion on these three amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u207	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u208	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u209	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u210	Mrs Sandrine Mörch has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u211	The desire to establish better coordination and cooperation between school health professionals is of course highly commendable. However, I would like to convey to you the strong fears expressed by some school nurses, who are in the field and therefore in direct contact with students. They tell us, at least for those with whom I spoke, that they are actually already working as a team, exchanging with school doctors, speech therapists or social workers. And they fear that the coordination that we are seeking to establish here will be the responsibility of the school doctors, who are less numerous and less present in the field, in the schools. The consequence of this good intention would be to keep nurses themselves away from schools and students. By virtue of medical secrecy, their presence in institutions and the link created with families and sometimes even with siblings, however, they are often the only trusted adult referents for young people who, especially in times of crisis, absolutely need to be heard. I think we should listen to the fear of these professionals and, like the Senate, not adopt this clause. I suggest that we define at a later stage, and in consultation with all national education health professionals, the modalities for effective cooperation that would attract their support.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u212	Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u213	To take up what I said in the general discussion, this article actually aims to manage the shortage of staff in school medicine. In my department, there's only one doctor for 13,000 students, which is really ridiculous. But is it by making school nurses subordinate to school doctors – what they fear – that we can overcome this shortage? There is a fear that nurses, who are already overwhelmed, will have to perform certain tasks of school doctors, who are not at all the same as their own. We therefore do not understand very well the sense of coordination that you want to establish, except to manage the shortage of school doctors. The latter are pathological referents when school nurses give priority to a prevention mission. These are two different jobs, with different missions, but, I repeat, it seems that you wanted to subordinate each other to manage this shortage of staff. I do not see what other objective this article could pursue.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u214	Mrs Marie Tamarelle-Verhaeghe has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u215	All the trades we talk about are working for the same priority: the health of children. As you said, these professionals are facing difficulties, especially with regard to school doctors. However, in any health policy it is necessary to agree on priorities, in this case how to defend first and foremost the health of children. Like many of you, I have received emails and calls from unions opposing this article. The concerns are clear: they think we are going to create a medicalized service. That is not our intention, and that is not the meaning of the proposed legal framework. No more than the authors of the text, the deputies of the La République en marche group have never been in favour of a medicalizing conception of health at school. Our contribution to the Grenelle de la santé is part of a comprehensive approach to health, which includes students' social and physical environments, institutional educational policies and knowledge, individual skills and skills, as well as pedagogical and disciplinary practices. So we are far from a purely medical vision. On the other hand, some believe that nurses, doctors, psychologists and social workers are already cooperating with each other. This is the case in some departments, but not everywhere, so much is needed. Many of the professionals concerned, even if they may be hostile to a health service, are seeking institutionalised time for cooperation. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] After these two misunderstandings, we agree with the health and social professionals of national education that this article will not alone provide a solution to the great suffering of health in schools. At a time when we are discussing the mental health of children and the fight against ill-treatment and when a health segur has just taken place, it is up to the ministries of national education and health to adopt an ambitious policy. With this in mind, I would urge you to reject these amendments to delete Rule 1aA and then vote on it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u216	I shall put to the vote Rule 1a A.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u217	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 74 Number of votes cast 71 Absolute majority 36 For adoption 56 Against 15
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u218	I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support Amendment No. 11.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u219	It aims to return to the drafting of article 1 bis of the Senate, which deals with the protocol for cooperation between health professionals. Indeed, the drafting of this article, as adopted by the National Assembly at first reading and then re-established in committee in new reading, adds eight new articles to the Code of Public Health, which does not correspond, Madam rapporteur, to the objective of simplification. While pursuing the same goals, the Senate has probably done more to that end. It therefore seems to me that its drafting of the article, on which I propose that you return with this amendment, would make it easier to simplify and improve the health system. However, before recasting the legal framework, we should wait until the provisions of the Law of 24 July 2019 on the organisation and transformation of the health system and, more importantly, of the ASAP law are actually applied, in order to have a certain setback.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u220	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u221	It is very unfavourable, because this amendment aims to abolish the simplification of the cooperation protocols that we wish to carry out. For contributing to the development of such protocols in an earlier life – they are not new – I can assure you of the need to simplify them. With this bill, we propose to go a little further in the decompartment by bringing the hospital closer to the medical-social sector, the hospitals between them, the hospital and the city medicine. Thanks to these protocols, and because we trust them, the actors will be able, tomorrow, to improve the provision of care and the care of patients. I repeat, because we trust the actors and in order for them to cooperate in the territory through the dismantling of their activities, it is absolutely necessary to maintain the wording of Article 1e bis as it was re-established in committee in a new reading. Very unfavourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u222	Mrs Emilie Bonnivard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u223	It should be recognized that this bill represents a step forward for midwives in that it meets part of their legitimate expectations, expressed for many years. I am thinking of extending the scope of the prescriptions, particularly in the field of sexually transmitted infections, of the possibility of renewing or extending work stoppages, or of declaring a reference midwife, a provision added by the Senate. It was very important for the text to incorporate these elements. The midwifery order conducted a survey a few years ago: 96% of them felt that their profession was not or was not sufficiently valued. However, progress is not yet sufficient, as there are still important questions to be answered. The question of the actual recognition of the medical status of midwives in the hospital remains whole, and it is something that they care about. The question of their remuneration, whether in hospital or in liberal form, also remains, even if we are indirectly responding to it with the enlargement of the regulations. In 2018, when a liberal midwife earned an average of 26000 euros a year, a liberal nurse received 45000 euros. And there is also the question of revalorization of certain acts that take longer during perinatal and antenatal consultations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u224	It's important!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u225	I refer to these elements so that we can continue to work on the demands of midwives, among which is also the reinforcement of their staff at the perinatal hospital. There have been many departures in recent years and the attractiveness of the positions remains too low to compensate for them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u226	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u227	I have before me seven amendments, Nos 90, 152, 37, 46, 74, 112 and 111, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 90 and 152 are identical, as are Amendments Nos 37, 46 and 74. Mr Paul Christophe has the floor to support Amendment No. 90.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u228	On this subject, which is dear to him, I am the spokesman for our colleague Annie Chapelier, who is going to work in Mayotte under the health reserve. As you know, midwives can now prescribe the acts, products and benefits listed by regulation. But to the extent that these lists may become obsolete, they expose the patient to double consultation, first in the midwife and then in the doctor. The aim of this amendment is therefore to remove these restrictive lists and to open more broadly – although within strict limits – their right of limitation within their sphere of competence, in order to simplify access to care throughout the territory, while of course preserving the safety of care. Moreover, the adoption of this amendment would bring the regime applicable to midwives into line with that of other medical professions, as would dental surgeons, who have full powers of prescribing within their sphere of competence.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u229	I call Mr Poulliat to support Amendment No. 152.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u230	Midwives play an essential role in the prevention, monitoring and safety of women. They shall, under their own responsibility, carry out the necessary procedures for the diagnosis and medical monitoring of pregnancy, as well as for medical follow-up and postnatal care for the mother and the child. They are considered to be members of a medical profession under the Public Health Code and are administratively treated as non-medical professionals in hospitals. Midwives have the ability to prescribe, which is important to them. The purpose of this amendment is to remove the restrictions imposed by the regulatory lists and to extend the scope of their statute of limitations in order to simplify access to care everywhere, while preserving safety. This amendment also aims to align the regime applicable to midwives with that of other medical professionals, such as dental surgeons, who have full powers of prescribing within their scope.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u231	I call Mr Perrut to support Amendment No. 37.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u232	The aim is to add two paragraphs to article L. 4151-4 of the Public Health Code, in order to strengthen prevention, speed up care routes and thus avoid loss of chance. We propose to allow midwives, on the one hand, to detect the risks of hereditary genetic disease in the foetus and, on the other hand, to prescribe a blood check to the future father in order to reveal whether he is actually carrying disease, so that he can take all the necessary steps. It seems to me that this proposal is justified by the proximity that exists between the midwife and her patient.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u233	Amendment No 46 by Mrs Jeanine Dubie is being defended. Mr Jean-Pierre Door has the floor to support Amendment No. 74.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u234	The article, as it is ours, allows midwives to prescribe the detection of sexually transmitted infections – STI – but we need to go further. Midwifery is a great job, which must be developed. Midwives must be able to prescribe all acts and products within their sphere of competence, without restriction. That was what honourable senators had proposed by establishing that midwives could prescribe all acts, products and benefits strictly necessary for the exercise of their profession.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u235	Mrs Emilie Bonnivard has the floor to support Amendments Nos 112 and 111, which can be presented together.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u236	I would like to stress the development of STIs in the population. For the past ten years, the number of chlamydia and gonococcal infections has increased by more than 10% since 2012, mostly among young people aged 15 to 24, with sometimes very serious fertility consequences. These are highly contagious infections and we therefore propose that midwives be able to detect STIs not only in women but also in their partners, so as to ensure prevention and possible treatment. The aim of Amendment No 111 is to allow midwives to detect the risk of foetus damage by hereditary genetic diseases, such as sickle cell disease, by prescribing a blood check to the spouse, in order to check whether he carries the disease. In addition, for optimal management of pregnancy, STI testing should also be possible in the father of the unborn child.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u237	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u238	Unfavorable opinion on all these amendments. Their scope is too wide, and is likely to place too much responsibility on midwives. We have already expanded their powers in this bill, and I propose that we stick to that balance. With regard to the amendments to reinstate clause 2 adopted in the Senate, I am not in favour of it for two reasons: on the one hand, they would eliminate the possibility for midwives to prescribe the screening and treatment of sexually transmitted infections to their patients and partners; On the other hand, the easing of the statute of limitations for midwives must not, in my view, be done simply by deleting the reference to the regulations, but by regularly updating them. As for the amendments to allow midwives to prescribe additional examinations in the context of the detection and treatment of sexually transmitted infections, or even to allow them to prescribe examinations to the biological father of the unborn child, if, as I said at first reading, I understand what motivates them, especially in cases of sickle cell disease, I nevertheless think that they are too imprecise and liable to place too much responsibility on midwives.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u239	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u240	Unfavorable opinion. However, we share your desire to better value the midwifery profession. I would like to inform you that they have been heard and that the Inspectorate-General for Social Affairs has launched a mission on the expansion of their practice, the recognition and evolution of their profession.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u241	Thank you for your support, Minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u242	Amendments Nos 98 and 99 of the rapporteur are drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u243	The rapporteur's amendment No 114 is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u244	The Minister-in-Office has the floor to support Amendment No. 167.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u245	He's withdrawn, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u246	Mrs Gisèle Biémouret has the floor to support Amendment No. 65.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u247	It aims to restore Article 2 sexies as adopted on first reading in the Senate, at the initiative of the Socialist, Environmental and Republican Group, which opens up the possibility for nurses and general practitioners to release HIV self-tests.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u248	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u249	This amendment proposes the reinstatement of Article 2e deleted in committee; So I'm unfavorable. As I have indicated in committee, if I agree with your desire to diversify the actors and relays offering screening tests, the issue of access to screening will be addressed in the context of the next roadmap of the national sexual health strategy, which will make it possible to consult and coordinate all the actors involved.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u250	I have before me two amendments, Nos 66 and 40, which may be submitted to a joint debate. Amendment No 66 by Mrs Gisèle Biémouret is being defended. Mr Jean-Louis Touraine has the floor to support Amendment No. 40.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u251	This amendment proposes to reinstate the clause adopted by our colleagues in the Senate, with some modifications. He proposes that city physicians be allowed to prescribe post-exposure treatment for HIV, as well as city pharmacists, without a prescription. Post-exposure treatment is a form of prophylaxis that must be implemented very quickly after exposure to risk – ideally within four hours, at most within 48 hours. It is prescribed and delivered in the CeGIDD – free information, screening and diagnostic centres – specialized counselling services and emergency services of health facilities. To the lack of knowledge of the device is added the complexity of its access. Actors point in particular to significant territorial inequalities and indicate that people at risk tend to focus on urban professionals, including pharmacists, as is the case with the next day's pill. Several reports have called for consideration of the possibility of changing access to this preventive treatment by allowing general practitioners to prescribe the first doses and pharmacists to dispense them without a prescription. In particular, the Court of Auditors invited the High Health Authority to evaluate the scheme in 2019. Unlike our fellow senators, I would like to put the patient on a course of care, since the prescription is limited to the first take; he would then be referred to a specialist physician for effective continuation of treatment. I recall that this post-exposure treatment is now prescribed and dispensed for the first forty-eight or ninety-six hours, after which a medical examination is mandatory. This treatment lasts four weeks, after which several serological control tests are performed within the next three months. I take this opportunity to ask the minister about the PrEP prescription premium – pre-exposure prophylaxis – for general practitioners: where are we?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u252	On Amendment No 165, I am seized by the independent UDI Group of a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u253	If I agree with you on the substance, on the form, these provisions have not been studied by the committee, which has not heard the actors. It seems to me important that all of them be consulted, as will be the case under the new roadmap of the National Sexual Health Strategy. On the other hand, the ANSM – National Agency for the Safety of Medicines and Health Products – should give a favourable opinion on the issue of PrEP by general practitioners, but for pathologies likely to become chronic, it is important that all actors can be involved from the outset. I therefore believe that this amendment is premature. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u254	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u255	I agree with the rapporteur on her opinion, stating that the work we are launching under the second roadmap of the National Sexual Health Strategy will include this issue, with a view to strengthening combined prevention, which is a major topic; I am committed to ensuring that post-exposure treatment is fully in place. I believe it is necessary to move forward but in consultation with the people concerned, stakeholders and health professionals and to ensure the sexual health of each and every one of us, in the best possible conditions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u256	Mr Jean-Louis Touraine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u257	In the light of the Minister's statements, I withdraw my amendment pending the provisions that she has announced.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u258	I call Mrs Vidal to support Amendment No. 157.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u259	This new article from an amendment of the Senate is intended to give occupational therapists the ability to prescribe medical devices and technical aids. However, the current wording does not distinguish first prescription, necessarily medical, from other prescriptions. Furthermore, it is not operational in so far as a doctor who has not made the initial prescription of medical devices or technical aids cannot give an indication contrary to its renewal. It is therefore proposed that occupational therapists may prescribe medical devices and technical aids necessary for the exercise of their profession and may, unless otherwise indicated by the doctor, renew the medical prescriptions for occupational therapy.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u260	Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u261	I take the opportunity to be inscribed on the article to surprise myself that the Government has tabled, less than 24 hours before its consideration in the meeting, an amendment on an article that was expected by the speech therapists. This raises a question of method. This way of doing things does not allow us to work on sub-amendments in good conditions. Moreover, the amendment does not go back to what Article 2h proposes. I would therefore like to know what objections you object to and what obstacles hinder you in adopting an article that has been adopted by the Senate and confirmed by the Social Affairs Committee of our House. I therefore wish, rather than a positive presentation of the amendment, that you react to what the committee has proposed. Clearly, the orthophonic balance without medical prescription would allow for simplification, better work, more autonomy and a saving of time, coordination being already ensured by mandatory reporting. This would improve our health care system.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u262	Mrs Valérie Six has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u263	Article 2 nonies provides for direct access to speech therapists and gives these professionals the opportunity to renew and adapt medical prescriptions for speech therapists. It was introduced in the Senate, and the Social Affairs Committee voted for its continuation at second reading. The National Federation of Speech-Language Practitioners welcomed this long-awaited progress, which we support; The majority of physician representative organisations are also in favour of direct access which simplifies the patient's path of care and responds to the risk of failure to take care of patients in territories where it is difficult to access a general practitioner. Since May 2002, doctors have prescribed a speech check with re-education if necessary, but at the end of the check-up and depending on the speech diagnosis they have made, it is the speech therapists who determine the number of sessions needed to treat their patient. The course of treatment, the number of sessions and the decision to stop or prosecute have for many years been decided in total autonomy, which has allowed for a regulation of speech speech expenses. So that's a step backwards you're proposing. It is contrary to the aim of the text, which wishes to have greater confidence in professionals.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u264	The Minister-in-Office has the floor to support Amendment No. 165.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u265	We share the concerns expressed in article 2 noies, which aims to improve access to speech-language care, and the Government is in favour of the Orthophonist adapting, within the framework of a renewal, medical prescriptions of less than one year, which will facilitate the path of care for their patients. On the other hand, given the variability and sometimes the severity of the pathologies that may lead to speech disorders in children and adults, access to orthophonists must continue to occur after a medical diagnosis, unless an emergency occurs. In order to improve access to care, the Government is working on other avenues relating to training capacities, attractiveness measures in hospitals and tele-expertise. That is why the amendment proposed by the Government aims to maintain access to the orthophonist on medical prescription.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u266	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u267	As Mr Bazin pointed out, the committee did not consider this amendment. I am very much in favour of direct access to certain professions, such as speech therapists or massage therapists, but it must be worked with all health professionals, and in particular with the general practitioner who coordinates the course of care. The article proposes to switch to direct access for a profession only. Why don't you do it for the others? Direct access is an essential point for improving access to care and it seems to me that we can give ourselves a few more weeks, as we will soon have more opportunities to address this issue.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u268	It's urgent to wait!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u269	I therefore support the Government's amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u270	Mr Cyrille Isaac-Sibille has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u271	We will be in favour of the Government's amendment. There are two problems: diagnosis and care. The diagnosis is the responsibility of the doctor, and that is why the passage to the doctor is important. That the orthophonist can then, like the physiotherapist, provide, adapt and renew care, is obvious, but the initial diagnosis is a medical practice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u272	Mrs Jeanine Dubie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u273	Our group will not support the Government's amendment for two reasons. On the form, first of all, you reproduce what happened with the anesthetist nurses: provisions were adopted in the Senate, then in the Committee on Social Affairs and, suddenly, you introduce an amendment to delete them. Again, this method is not acceptable. On the other hand, removing direct access to the orthophonist is one thing, but as the amendment is written, you even reduce the way in which speech therapy takes place. We cannot accept it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u274	Mrs Gisèle Biémouret has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u275	I have the same arguments as my colleagues about the method used. The speech therapists were really happy that they had achieved this breakthrough. At the last moment, however, they are surprised to discover this amendment, which will lead to a setback. I would remind you that, for the past year, we have been in a very complicated situation: many people suffer, especially children, and this is not the time to restrict access to speech therapists. Specialists in the field should be trusted; Instead, we see mistrust and a step backwards.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u276	Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u277	On this specific point of the text, we reached an agreement between Members of Parliament and senators of all sides. More and more children are having difficulties in school, and this is often where problems are identified that warrant the intervention of a speech therapist. The parents were then told: "You have to go through the doctor. So they go to the doctor to get a prescription, which is usually a waste of time. Doctors see no problem with direct access, as mandatory reporting is not a problem. In other situations, there may be a need for an initial prescription, but in this particular case, I sincerely believe that the article is in the right direction. I felt the unfavorable opinion – a little masked, given the context – of a number of colleagues, and I hope that we will be able to maintain Article 2 none. I invite the minister to withdraw her amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u278	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u279	In essence, I agree with Mr Bazin on the issue of direct access to speech therapists. But if you have ever tried to make an appointment for your children, you will have found that the deadlines are very long. If we open direct access, how can we improve the time taken to care for the child? I believe that the issue needs to be worked out with all stakeholders, and that direct access should eventually be allowed according to certain recommendations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u280	I put to the vote Amendment No. 165.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u281	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 81 Number of votes cast 75 Absolute majority 38 For adoption 54 Against 21
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u282	I have before me four identical amendments, Nos 12, 13, 33 and 110. I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support Amendment No. 12.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u283	The amendment proposes to reinstate section 2 decies as adopted in the Senate. Indeed, in the context we know, which leads to a huge need for vaccination, the article proposed to extend the possibility of vaccination to pharmacists of pharmacies for indoor use, the famous PUIs, which can be found, in particular, in hospital centres in our territories. IRAPs play an essential role in the vaccine chain, particularly in terms of their conservation – and the conditions required by Pfizer and Moderna vaccines in this area are known. In view of the way in which the vaccination policy is carried out, therefore, their reinforcement should not be overlooked. PIU pharmacists are, moreover, often very involved in setting up vaccination centres, which they supply in good conditions. I have an example in my constituency at the Lunéville hospital centre. When trying to "go to" by installing vaccination points close to the territories, IRAPs are often used. The article proposed by the Senate is relevant in the current health context, and these early soldiers are of good will. I know some remarkable pharmacists who work in PIU, and I take this opportunity to acknowledge their commitment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u284	Mr Jean-Pierre Door has the floor to support Amendment No. 13.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u285	In our committee work, we sought to increase the number of professionals allowed to contribute to the vaccination strategy. We have managed to get biologists to administer vaccines, and God knows that it has not been without harm. This possibility should now be extended to pharmacists in pharmacies for indoor use, in particular in EHPADs and medical and social establishments. Pharmacists are used to immunizing against influenza. Why can they not contribute to vaccination against covid -19, indispensable for people residing in medical-social institutions of the EHPAD type? In my constituency, we have achieved a vaccine rate of between 75% and 80% thanks to nurses and co-ordinators. But pharmacists should be able to lend them a hand. They're health care professionals who can vaccinate, and I don't see why they'd be prevented.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u286	Mrs Valérie Six has the floor to support Amendment No. 33.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u287	Like Mr.Bazin and Mr.Door, we would like to reinstate clause 2 decies, which was introduced in the Senate. The following article, which tends to allow medical laboratories to carry out certain vaccinations, follows the same logic; It has been maintained by the Social Affairs Committee. Pharmacists in indoor pharmacies could vaccinate patients and residents in health and social facilities. This would facilitate the immunization coverage of healthcare professionals working in care facilities, and would be particularly interesting in the context of a mass vaccination against covid-19, which we all hope.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u288	Amendment No 110 by Mrs Gisèle Biémouret is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee on these four identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u289	They aim to re-establish an deleted article in the Committee on Social Affairs. In the current crisis situation, I am quite in favour of it, because of its consistency: in committee, we have already agreed to open vaccination to biologists. In addition, during the intense campaign ahead, we will need more hands to vaccinate in record time for all those who wish to vaccinate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u290	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u291	Very favorable wisdom.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u292	[[Smile]] You're innovating!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u293	Mrs Gisèle Biémouret has the floor to support Amendment No. 107.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u294	This article, introduced by the Senate at first reading, is intended to allow medical biology laboratories to carry out vaccinations whose list would be determined by order. The amendment seeks to clarify that a doctor will have to be present during these acts.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u295	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u296	Unfavorable opinion. We have already discussed this in committee; This does not seem possible in practice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u297	The rapporteur's amendment No 120 is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u298	Mrs Gisèle Biémouret has the floor to support Amendment No. 68, which seeks to delete Rule 4.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u299	The head of the HHT support institution must not decide alone, as a last resort, the creation of positions of hospital practitioners. The advisability of creating them must be appreciated as closely as possible to practice. We have already talked about this at first reading, and in committee at the new reading: each director must be able to organise his establishment autonomously. I fully understand that coordination within the GHT is planned, in order to allow the pooling of specialists between several hospitals, for example; This corresponds to the spirit of the text. But why give so much power to the director of the support institution? In some territories, things are not going as well as we would like.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u300	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u301	Indeed, we have had this discussion several times. Article 4 proposes an experiment where local hospital groups are mature for a more integrated management of their medical resources, in order to improve access to care. Let us place ourselves, again, from the point of view of the interests of the users. Mr Door knows very well, in some territories the HHTs are working very well; So we can go in that direction. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u302	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u303	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u304	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u305	I naturally support Mrs Biémouret's amendment. Heads of institutions participating in the HHT must have full responsibility for the management of their establishment. You cannot gargarize the words "health democracy" while centralizing decision-making at this point! I do not see what it would be like to entrust this additional power to the head of the support institution.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u306	Mr Bernard Perrut has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u307	On the benches of the Republicans Group, we believe that a pragmatic approach should be taken and that everyone should be given back his or her role by relying on the trust that must prevail between the various actors of the institutions making up the GHT. The head of the department, who works as close to the field as possible, must coordinate with the chairman of the medical establishment commission in order to ensure the coherence of the medical project; the school director must be supported in his/her mission to health personnel and as manager. Finally, coherence with the shared medical project and health policy in the territories must be ensured through the HHT steering role. We will therefore propose, with the following amendments, to modify the experiment provided for in this article, following a pragmatic rather than technocratic approach: it should be up to the head of department to decide whether to create a post and then to formulate a joint proposal with the chairman of the medical establishment committee to the director of the institution party, who would then decide. In order to ensure the coherence necessary for the conduct of the health policy of the territories, and, of course, that of the GHT – which is very useful – the head of the institution party would inform the director of the support establishment of the GHT. In the event that the creation of a post would run counter to the medical project of the territorial hospital group – even if it is difficult to imagine such a case – the head of the support establishment could, after consulting the medical grouping commission, ask the director of the RSA to oppose it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u308	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 14 and 30. Mr Jean-Pierre Door has the floor to support Amendment No. 14.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u309	But Mr. Perrut just defended him!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u310	I will supplement my colleague Bernard Perrut's remarks. The debate on this issue was heated at first reading in the Assembly, then in the Senate, and then again in committee. The proposal to create a position of hospital practitioner must come from the hospital in which it will operate. It must therefore be the responsibility of the head of department to formulate a proposal, which must be accepted by the EMC – the establishment medical committee – and by the director of the hospital. It is at this level that the decision must be made! If, of course, we are not opposed to the head of the HHT support institution issuing an opinion, everything must come from the base, that is, from the local hospitals, to which we hold. Otherwise we risk going towards the transformation of the GHT into what I call "departmental hospitals" – no! This would be contrary to the objective of ensuring proximity to the provision of care.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u311	I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support Amendment No. 30.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u312	Again? The amendment has already been defended!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u313	These discussions on the GHT have been taking place for several weeks. If some THGs work very well, this is not the case for others. In addition, the size of these groupings varies; Some have academic institutions, others do not; Some include isolated institutions, which have their own needs, where the director needs to be strengthened in his or her mission, and where heads of service must be responsible, to ensure a community-based hospital service. Article 4 therefore does not seem to me to be adjusted to the common sense of the ground. Here we propose a new, more pragmatic drafting of the article, which reinforces the role of the director of the party establishment. The objectives assigned to him are beautiful, but how could he achieve them if he did not have his hands on the necessary means? In addition, we must respect the dynamics that must be driven by the local level.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u314	What is the opinion of the committee on these two identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u315	He's unfavorable. Of course, we have not finished the debate on territorial hospital groups, but I doubt that we will be able to do so when we look at this bill. Mr Bazin, here we offer the most integrated HHTs an experiment. The request to create a Practitioner position will not come from a school principal, but from department heads, who will share their needs and suggest candidates, as is already the case. The aim of this bill is only to simplify and speed up recruitment, in order to make posts more attractive, particularly in the smaller establishments belonging to a territorial hospital group.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u316	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u317	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u318	Mrs. Annie Vidal has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u319	I would point out that, according to the article, the decision of the director of the support establishment would be based on a joint proposal by the director and the chairman of the medical establishment committee of the party establishment, after consulting the medical grouping committee. It is therefore not a unilateral act, contrary to what the content of the discussions might suggest.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u320	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u321	Madam rapporteur, you are talking about speeding up the decision and fluidisation. For my part, I think you will achieve the opposite result. On the basis of the example of the creation of the metropolis of Aix-Marseille, I can assure you that this type of measure, adopted on such a scale, will not at all smooth the process of job creation and recruitment. On the contrary! Moreover, how will the places of experimentation be determined? Who will decide? The only heads of supporting establishments, who could make claims, requests or suggestions in this regard? Or will all the heads of establishments part of the GHT be consulted?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u322	Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor. Mr. Bazin?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u323	Excuse me, I was taking advice from my colleague Jean-Pierre Door, who knows the subject better than I do. Let us not be naive: in some territories, services are in tension and it is necessary to create new posts. However, in the experiment you propose, the decision would be taken by the director of the support institution. If – without giving him bad intentions – he seeks to concentrate the activities, by repatriating some, he may be inclined to refuse the necessary job creations. During the first confinement, there was enormous pressure in my territory to close maternity, under the pretext of recovering, among other things, equipment, while births were more numerous than the previous year in a national context marked by a decline in the birth rate. This shows that the support establishment may not take into account the needs of the territories. I therefore call on you to be cautious in order to ensure that the territory is fairly developed by leaving the directors of local institutions autonomous.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u324	Amendment No 69 by Mrs Gisèle Biémouret is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u325	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-18-O1202.u326	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Further discussion of the bill to improve the health system through trust and simplification; Further to the discussion of the bill to democratize sport in France. The meeting is adjourned.
