ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u1	The next item is the discussion, after the accelerated procedure has begun, of the draft law on the management of the exit from a health crisis (No. 4105, 4141).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u2	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u3	So here we are again for the consideration of a bill on the health crisis. For the past 15 months, Parliament has been asked at regular intervals to find the right balance between maintaining our freedoms and the necessary protection of the most vulnerable in the face of a virus that has already killed more than 100,000 of our citizens. In fifteen months, the lives of the French have changed, their daily lives have been changed; I understand fatigue, fatigue, sometimes anger. Many sacrifices have been made: they are the translation into deeds of our values. Solidarity is not an abstract, disembodied value; It only makes sense if it engages and mobilizes each and every one of us. I would like to thank you, ladies and gentlemen, and through you all the French for their patience, courage and self-denial in recent months. I would also like to thank you for your vigilance on a daily basis and for your constant concern to find the right balance between our freedoms and the protection of the French. This just balance cannot be a unanimous decision, able to satisfy everyone; Nor is it a soft consensus or a bad one. This right balance is that of the general interest – we are not here to serve another. The state of health emergency has not been a fantasy, or as I have often heard an excess of caution. No, it has provided a legal and democratic framework for unprecedented decisions that have always relied on scientific data, our knowledge of the virus and our means of combating it. Our only objective was to protect the health of the French: it is a choice that we have made with seriousness, with responsibility. It is not cheerfulness of heart that we make decisions like those that have been made. Today, it is with reasonable optimism and confidence that I submit this bill to you to come out of the health crisis. If the indicators are not green, far from it, they show a significant improvement in the epidemic situation. Immunization has accelerated: 18 million of our citizens have received at least one dose of vaccine. The number of patients in resuscitation due to covid -19 began to decrease: it had exceeded 6,000, and it is currently just under 5000. The curve suggests that we will reach the 4000 bar, then the 3000 bar; We will then be able to resume scheduled care in our hospitals under the best conditions. The positivity rate has also declined from 6.2% to 5.8%. Finally, we have seen a decrease in the incidence rate for three consecutive weeks, in all age groups: we diagnose some 18,000 patients a day; It's still a lot, it's still too much, but it's twice as much as the 40,000 patients diagnosed a day when we had to apply braking measures. The incidence rate is now close to 200. These signals are very encouraging. They show that the measures have been effective once again. They allow us to look more calmly at the continuation of the fight against the epidemic and make it possible to adapt health protection measures. We can now project ourselves gradually outside the state of emergency regime. This improvement in the situation cannot exempt us from a vigilance that remains absolutely necessary to prevent the spread of the virus. Calling for continued vigilance is in no way a posture, taking into account the fact that covid mortality remains high, and that hospital tension, although decreasing, remains strong in many metropolitan and ultramarine territories. Finally, in terms of indicators, I would like to point out that we still have more covid patients in resuscitation than at the peak of the second wave. The draft law on the management of the exit from a health crisis does not therefore represent a clear break between the constraints imposed by the epidemic and the return to life before; It sets a course towards the goal of a return so much hoped for to our life before. He draws perspectives and installs the conditions for a return to normal in a progressive and lasting way, but in a safe, efficient and sustainable manner. This return to normal, we have constantly sought it in this House, through a debate that has never been interrupted since the beginning of the health crisis: the mere fact that this bill is the eighth dedicated to the health crisis attests to this. Our exchanges have sometimes been lively; They were necessary to achieve balanced decisions and to build together measures to protect the population. Every time, the spirit of responsibility took it away. This bill does not derogate from this rule. Taking into account a still sensitive epidemic reality, it strives to create a serious and reasonable exit from health crisis. It devotes major changes. This is the end of the state of health emergency, declared on 14 October last, and extended since then. The containment measures are coming to an end, starting on June 2. However, it is still necessary to retain, on a temporary basis, the curfew tool: this pragmatic request makes it possible not to request a further renewal of a state of health emergency, with the wide curfew possibilities it would carry. An amendment by the Government adopted in committee thus allows for the maintenance of a specific curfew, temporary, and highly supervised, from 2 to 30 June 2021 inclusive, i.e. for only one month. It allows a schedule later than the current schedule, since the time will only be twenty-one hours earlier. This measure is intended as a final step, step by step, towards an exit regime. It is not intended to remain frozen in the marble, as the President of the Republic undertook by announcing that this hour would be likely to be further delayed if the health situation improved. A timetable has been announced. We also know that the spread of the virus is not the same from one territory to another, which has on many occasions justified territorialised measures. The Government hopes that this mechanism will be maintained to respond to a possible localised deterioration of the health situation during the summer period, without maintaining a stricter curfew for the entire population. We therefore hope that the mechanism for strengthening territorialised health measures adopted in committee will be maintained. Many Members wanted to do so: this text allows pseudonymized data from covid information systems to be placed within the national health data system (NHDS) so that they can be kept after the end of the health crisis, only for research purposes. No latitude is taken with regard to respect for the confidentiality of the data. The vaccination campaign is progressing; With her, our hopes are growing. What freedoms will the vaccine offer us, what protection will it provide? These issues are legitimate, but they also cause much confusion, as are health issues. This is not a vaccine pass: to validate it, a PCR or antigenic test may suffice. It is above all a tool for securing the epidemic retreat and accelerating – this is an essential point – the gradual opening of shops, restaurants and major events. It takes two forms in this bill: a "border" pass and a "great events" pass. The first allows long-range travel to be subject to a vaccination or recovery certificate, alternatively to the negative result of a virological test. The second, introduced in committee by amendment, makes it possible for people to have access to certain places, establishments or events involving large gatherings. The Scientific Council, consulted on this orientation, delivered an opinion on Monday, 3 May, in which it considers that the health pass, used temporarily, "can allow the population a form of return to normal life by minimizing the risk of contamination". This scheme will not be extended to the activities of everyday life; Of course, barrier health measures remain, even with the health pass. We will ensure that the ban imposed in committee on daily activities is respected; If necessary, penalties will be imposed, based on the pattern of contraventions relating to establishments receiving from the public and the meeting places we know under the current regime. The pass remains the best way to value all the vaccination efforts we have made to make possible more activities, more sporting and cultural events – we would otherwise take the risk of even longer closures or restrictions. These faculties, which are explicitly foreseen for the exit regime, will also be mobilizable in a state of health emergency, if it were to be declared again, which no one obviously wants. In order to avoid any eventuality, it will be proposed to re-establish this summer the limited arrangements for the extension of the state of emergency, but only if it should concern only very limited territories and less than 10% of our compatriots. We will thus avoid the organisation of a new legislative meeting at a time when your work will be suspended, but on which urgent decisions would be indispensable. Everyone remembers last summer, when the epidemic was otherwise at a standstill, at least at a very low level, of the re-emergence of cases in Mayenne: we were able, by intervening very quickly, to avoid a second wave during the summer. I ask you never to forget in your reasoning the ultramarine territories, because last summer the southern hemisphere was marked by very strong epidemic waves, which particularly affected Guyana, where we had to take urgent measures to protect the population. The bill before you today obviously takes into account the economic situation of our country. For more than a year, the state has proved that it is able to accompany our companies and employees on a daily and long-term basis. We propose to adapt several economic and social measures taken during the previous stages of the epidemic in order to encourage the resumption of activity, particularly with regard to partial activity. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] Each of these measures reflects the Government's commitment and persistence in the fight against coronavirus. I know that what the state of emergency regime prevails in the daily lives of the French and this assembly; I also know that without you, ladies and gentlemen, without the strength of democracy, our struggle loses its meaning and our future is more than uncertain. In the project that we are building to get out of the health crisis once and for all – yes, once and for all – we must set milestones and find together the conditions by which life can become what it was before. That is what this text proposes, and I know that you will be at the meeting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u4	Mr Jean-Pierre Pont, rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u5	Today we can see, with all the caution that this statement requires, the exit of a period that has been in our country for more than a year. In the spring of 2021, if the covid-19 virus persists, mutates and continues to kill despite all the efforts made, first and foremost those of our caregivers, the vaccination campaign is now well underway and legitimately arouses hope and patience. However, we must remain cautious. The long-awaited effects of the vaccine are soon, and with this in mind the collective effort of the French must be maintained, in ways adapted to the current health context. It is a fragile, demanding balance that this bill seeks to achieve: to maximize the resumption of activities, while maintaining the necessary measures to combat the epidemic. I welcome the fact that it is in keeping with the position expressed by the Law Committee in the last bill to extend the state of health emergency, discussed at the beginning of the year: to leave the state of emergency as soon as possible, and to determine at the appropriate time the transitional regime which will succeed it, in order to continue the fight against the virus proportionately, while allowing the resumption of activities and the revival of growth. This is the subject of Article 1er, which introduces a transitional regime similar to that built upon the exit from the first state of health emergency and which had been applicable from 11 July to 16 October 2020. The discussions in the committee were fruitful on this article, both on the provision on the health passport for certain trips and on the Government's two amendments. The first is to introduce a health pass for leisure activities involving large gatherings and the second is to allow the curfew to be maintained until 30 June. Let us welcome the guarantees and clarifications already given in committee to these arrangements. A sub-amendment by our President has thus made it clear that no professional would be able to require the presentation of the pass outside the cases provided for by law. It is a question of avoiding the drift that the use of this device would constitute in everyday life. We will have the opportunity to continue this work in open session, particularly with regard to the provisional maintenance of the curfew. This provision constitutes a breach – albeit justified – of the principle that only the state of health emergency allows for measures to be taken to prohibit departure from the home, we will provide the additional guarantees necessary for its full acceptance. Finally, with regard to the end of the transitional regime, the discussions have been rich. Nevertheless, I maintain that the choice of 31 October is wise, not only in terms of health, but also in terms of social and economic matters. To advance this date would be to limit the application of accompanying measures which are essential for our country. I turn to Article 2, of which Article II provided for a derogation from the declaration of a state of emergency, applicable during the summer period and in limited parts of the territory. This measure was able to raise legitimate questions and criticism, reinforced by the opinion of the Council of State, which led to its abolition. The new mechanism proposed by the Government takes into account the proposals I have made and will respond to the concerns expressed. Article 3 provides for the adaptation of the first two articles in New Caledonia and French Polynesia. In keeping with the recent and useful decisions taken by the Government to intensify health control at borders, article 4 seeks to strengthen the quarantine and isolation regime as well as the control of violations of animal health rules. Article 5 seems essential to me in that it allows for the integration of some of the data collected by information systems established to combat the covid-19 epidemic into the NSDS. This payment, which will be made in a secure and respectful manner of the protection of personal data, aims to align the arrangements for collecting health information relating to covid-19 with the ordinary system – and it alone. This indispensable tool will ultimately improve medical knowledge and patient care and thus better deal with other possible epidemics. I very much hope that our discussions will help to dispel the misunderstandings that may have arisen in the Committee on Laws concerning this article. I would like to point out that the data concerned will not be identifying and personal data – they will be destroyed after three months – but health data under pseudonym. I referred to the accompanying measures taken since the beginning of the crisis. In a timely manner, section 6 provides for an extension of some of these until the end of the transitional period on 31 October. These include the functioning of the courts, that of the local deliberative assemblies – on this point, I welcome the Government's proposal to establish a quorum for the elections next June of the local executive – the organisation of the EHPADs or the missions of the occupational health services, more than ever indispensable. Other necessary accompanying measures may be extended and adapted by order, pursuant to Article 7, in respect of partial activity, winter truce and unemployment benefit for intermittents. The use of prescriptions is disputed, I know, but it is appropriate here: it will allow us to adapt valuable tools to a change in the health situation that we cannot yet grasp. Article 8 provides for adjustments to the electoral campaign and voting operations for June elections: digital faith professions, outside voting, and extended election posting. Everything is designed to ensure that elections are conducted in the best conditions for candidates and voters. The Commission has also clarified the planned measures for electoral debates to maximize their effectiveness. Furthermore, on my initiative and that of Mr Gouffier-Cha and the members of the La République group on the move, the committee adopted a new Article 9 which provides for the deadline for the issue of the final receipt of candidatures in order to extend the duration of the election poster. It is a useful measure, the principle of which is supported by the Government, as evidenced by the decree published on Saturday in the Official Gazette. Finally, the Commission introduced three new articles on a proposal from the Government: Article 6a extends the derogation for public officials and certain employees until the end of the transitional regime; Article 10 provides for the reimbursement of the expenses of electoral propaganda incurred in the course of by-elections postponed; Finally, Article 11 provides for the annulment of the census operations planned this year which could not be carried out as a result of the health crisis. Hope remains that this is the last effort requested of the French. In order to give ourselves every chance to finally turn the page of the health crisis, we must succeed, from 2 June, in the exit of the second state of emergency and the third deconfinement, according to the modalities announced by the President of the Republic on 29 April 2021 and organized by this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u6	I have received a motion from Ms. Valérie Rabault and members of the Socialists and Related Group to reject in advance pursuant to Rule 91(5) of the Rules of Procedure. Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u7	France is expected to leave the state of emergency on 2 June, but the Government intends to retain important prerogatives until October. That is the purpose of this new text. From 2 June to 31 October inclusive, that is, for five months, the Prime Minister will have the power to take by decree certain measures "in the interest of public health and solely for the purpose of combating the spread of the epidemic of covid-19". In parts of the territory where active circulation of the virus is found, it may prohibit or restrict the movement of persons and the movement of vehicles, subject to travel strictly necessary for family, professional and health needs. It may also regulate access to public premises, gatherings of persons, meetings and activities on public roads and in places open to the public. In order to deal with localised deterioration of the health situation, the text also states that until 31 October, a state of emergency could be declared in one or more specific territorial districts, the period beyond which its extension could only be authorized by law being increased to two months. Thus, to summarize its philosophy, the bill organizes, for the benefit of the executive, a permanent delegation of the power to limit public and individual freedoms, a delegation which, within the framework of territorial management, can descend to the prefect. Of course, the text provides for Parliament to be informed – at least about some of the measures taken. But the legislator has already agreed in March, May, July, November 2020, and in February 2021 to grant the Government exceptional powers in the face of the crisis, and throughout these almost fifteen months we have hoped for provisions to regulate them. Even today, the bill tends to allow the Prime Minister to take all the measures permitted by the state of emergency, and thus faces the same criticism as that made in June 2020, during the review of the previous law to leave the state of emergency. Certain restrictions on fundamental freedoms could therefore be maintained for several months without any intervention by our Assembly. However, limitations on public and individual freedoms can only be accepted if they are temporary, if Parliament is called upon to vote regularly and if judges can assess their proportionality. The amendments that our group is defending are based on these principles. The rejection of the text is justified, in our view, for four reasons: rather than providing for a "deceleration" of the police measures, it increases the possibilities to take them and extends their duration of application; it includes numerous legal inaccuracies; it would be significantly modified by the Government's amendment on the establishment of a health pass; it would allow, in certain parts of the territory representing a certain percentage of the population, to apply the state of emergency for a period of up to two months before its extension is authorized. First of all, the transitional regime, by its duration, is tantamount to circumventing the need for an express authorisation to extend the state of health emergency. At the same time as the closure of travel restrictions is mentioned, the proposed framework maintains the same constraints with regard to access to establishments receiving public access and public road assemblies as applied during the state of health emergency. These are the famous "brakes" that could be operated according to a political logic displayed but not on the basis of scientific arguments. The text offers the possibility of keeping the curfew between 21:00 and 06:00 in the morning. By empowering prefects to take certain general measures, it tends to delegate executive power to the deconcentrated administration without national representation having control over it. In fact, the delegated and territorialized state of emergency could last up to five months, which is more than anything that the law has allowed so far – and this, without parliamentary intervention. Parliamentary control will therefore remain as limited as ever, and we will still have no visibility of the general measures taken by the prefects, many of which are subject to litigation. We also question the imprecision of the proposed legal framework, whereas any restriction on freedoms must be limited, precisely defined and proportionate to the objective pursued. This inaccuracy raises the issue of negative incompetence. Under article 1, the Government could regulate, or even prohibit, the movement of persons or the opening of certain establishments, except in the case of strict containment, in parts of the territory in which "an active circulation of the virus" is found. Neither the bill nor the statement of reasons nor the impact statement specifically define this condition for the important strengthening of the Prime Minister's regulatory power. We proposed in committee to take as a reference the incidence rate observed over a slippery week, taking as the threshold either the one mentioned by the President of the Republic about the defunction – 400 positive cases per 100,000 inhabitants – or the one recommended by the scientific and medical community and which was the former reference threshold of the administration – 250 positive cases per 100,000 inhabitants. In the absence of such a clarification, the Government would indeed be free to decide whether to switch to a ban regime. This seems to us to be a case of negative incompetence, i.e. one of the hypotheses in which the legislator would not have exhausted its competence: too imprecise or ambiguous law, referral to regulatory power, referral to law enforcement authorities, insufficient intervention by the legislator, deprivation of legal guarantees... In other words, this would be an omission of Parliament. This lack of negative incompetence, in addition to the failure to comply with the requirement of clarity and intelligibility of the law, is particularly evident with regard to the mechanism of the health pass introduced by amendment. It would be applicable to certain places, establishments or events, without specifying the types of establishments concerned or their openness to the outside world. The article also refers to "large gatherings of people", but does not specify the applicable gauges, whether in number or density of people. Finally, some types of gathering in a large crowded area are listed, such as leisure activities. However, sporting events are not distinguished from cultural activities or simple walks. In the same way, among these gatherings, nothing distinguishes the projection of a film in an 80-seat neighborhood cinema room, a concert in Bercy with 18,000 seats, a demonstration from neighborhood to outside bringing together fifty people, or an event bringing together tens of thousands of spectators. Moreover, beyond the negative incompetence and the lack of clarity of the law, which pose a risk of non-compliance with the Constitution, the issue of the protection of personal data is also not addressed. We will return to the health pass in a moment, but we are already allowed to say that its application will require the collection of personal health data, which is a precedent. The duration and scope of this data collection should therefore be limited. By nature, it will be mainly legal or natural persons not belonging to an administration who will have to control the health pass. However, there is no guarantee, like an authorisation to carry out these checks, as to the retention and use of the personal health data it contains. It should also be noted that the health pass was introduced into the text by the adoption of an amendment by the Government. The latter had therefore not had to apply article 39 of the Constitution and article 8 of the Organic Act of 15 April 2009, which required him to submit the draft laws for the opinion of the Council of State and to accompany them with an impact assessment. However, these documents, transmitted to Parliament, are essential elements for the proper information of parliamentarians prior to the examination of the texts, in order to enable them to make an informed decision. The bill on the management of health crisis exit was tabled on 28 April 2021 on the Bureau of the National Assembly, but the executive only tabled its amendment on the health pass on 3 May, five days later. Since the subject had been discussed for several weeks at the French and European levels, the Government could not suggest that it had been forced to integrate the provision in an emergency after the bill had been introduced. In view of the wording of the amendment, he clearly chose to circumvent the obligation to submit this provision to the opinion of the State Council, in order to avoid a potentially negative judgment, and to integrate it into the impact assessment. While the Constitutional Council has not yet adopted this ground for censoring a bill, the procedure by which the provision was adopted is contrary to the spirit of the Constitution. Let us therefore be allowed to say how strange it seems to us that we do not know, at this stage, whether the pass will be linked to the download of the AllAntiCovid app and subordinated to its use. Nor do we know whether a similar approach is being taken by the European Union and, if so, how it will relate to ours. Finally, we would like to know whether there will be sufficient guarantees for it, particularly with regard to personal data. What data are we talking about and who will be able to consult them? I would add that the pass should not create discrimination or inequality, especially when the entire population could not be vaccinated by the time it enters into force. In any event, I stress that circumvention of the opinion of the Council of State has been inappropriate, which is an understatement. The last element leading us to defend a motion of rejection: the possibility of taking, in the event of a resumption of the pandemic, derogatory measures for two months without the intervention of the legislator. Such a derogation of two months before the obligation to extend the state of health emergency was included in article 2 of the original draft law. Our amendment to delete this provision was adopted in committee, particularly with the support of our colleagues from the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and Related Democrats groups and act together, but the Government has tabled an amendment to restore it to a public meeting. I would point out that this arrangement would allow, when a state of emergency is declared in a territory representing less than 10 per cent of the French population, not to have to request its extension for two months, compared with one month at present. At the very least, the Minister's justification in committee was surprising, as he spoke of his willingness not to involve the departments of the departments concerned and Members of Parliament during the summer holidays. Obviously, these arguments do not take account of the fact that the management of the human resources of the ministries provides for continuity of the State's action and that MPs remain mobilized at all times, more importantly this year, while international travel will again be limited. In our view, the possible reintroduction of this disproportionate and unnecessary measure alone justifies the prior rejection of the text. That, ladies and gentlemen, is the whole set of reasons that lead us to support the prior rejection of the bill. I repeat, in times of crisis, French and French people need transparency and knowledge that nothing is hidden from them, including the fact that we do not know everything about this disease. It is on this condition that they will have confidence in politics and in us, parliamentarians and Government, who run the country. [[Applause on the banks of the LTand GDR groups. – Mr Philippe Gosselinapplauditedalso]] Even if some of you will not adhere to all of our arguments, at least they will have been exposed to you. We invite you to vote on this motion of rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u8	In explanation of vote on the motion for rejection, the floor is Mr Guillaume Gouffier-Cha.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u9	The Group of the European People's Party will not vote on this motion for a preliminary rejection, because it seems to us that the text proposed by the Government is a relevant mechanism for the gradual exit of the state of emergency, and that we need to adopt such a mechanism. In fact, making this choice was not an obvious one: in view of the health reality that Olivier Véran recalled earlier, we could have done that of extending the state of health emergency. The number of deaths to date is 106421, the number of daily infections still exceeds 20,000, while 8067 people have been hospitalized over the last seven days and the tension in our hospitals remains particularly high, both in metropolitan France and overseas. Thus, given the duration of the crisis, we felt it would be preferable not to extend the state of health emergency, but to emerge gradually. That is what this text proposes, which also provides for mechanisms that will enable us to continue to curb the spread of the epidemic while returning to normal life as soon as possible. You have mentioned these braking devices several times in your remarks, Mrs Karamanli. This is the possibility, provided for in Article 2, of establishing a territorialised state of emergency in a region representing no more than 10 per cent of the national population, or the possibility of introducing a new curfew. Of course, we need to discuss and frame these measures, but we may need them in the event that an epidemic outbreak affects certain territories in the coming summer – we are learning from last summer's lessons. That is why we will oppose your motion of rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u10	We must conclude, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u11	We believe that we need to discuss the measures contained in the bill and see how to frame them more, rather than simply rejecting the text. On the other hand, we need devices such as the health pass, which should allow us to resume a gradual activity,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u12	Time's up, Congressman.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u13	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] ...even if it should not concern everyday life.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u14	Mr Philippe Gosselin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u15	First of all, I am surprised that the previous rejection motion did not elicit a response from the Government. A number of points were raised: it seems to me that they were not to be swept away by a turn of hands and that they called for some elements of response or exchange. If our debates today are limited to monologues, I fear that we will again be far from the point of view. This text, no one contests its usefulness. While we and our fellow citizens are looking forward to regaining our freedom of movement, everyone has understood that the disease is still present and even in a very serious way in some territories. It is therefore logical and normal for the executive to act, and no one has ever contested it. But your dispositions go very far! And I believe that the questions raised by our colleague Karamanli show the limits of the exercise carried out by the Government. You almost have to trust yourself with your eyes closed! The health pass, for example, was presented to us overnight, deusexmachina, on 3 May, forty-eight hours before the bill was discussed in the Law Committee and, of course, without any pronouncement by the Council of State or by any independent organization or authority. This pass, however, is not nothing and the lifting of shields that it raises extends to the majority: you know it and you cannot sweep it with a back of your hand. As regards territorialisation and the possibility of proclaiming a state of emergency in part of the territory, the beautiful affair! We are told that we must avoid bringing Parliament together because ministerial collaborators are tired. Of course, they are, as are Members of Parliament and all of our fellow citizens – I have no doubt about that. But – it is his honour – Parliament is there to work, to meet and to ensure that public freedoms are respected. Other points have been raised, particularly with regard to personal health data, on which we do not have an answer on your part.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u16	Please conclude, my colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u17	[[Applause on the benches of the LR and SOC groups]] For all these reasons, I believe that there is an urgent need to reject the text now. We will therefore support the motion for a preliminary rejection put forward by the Socialist Group and our colleague Karamanli.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u18	Mr Philippe Latomb has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u19	To vote on this motion of rejection would be to vote for a dry exit from the state of emergency. We do not want to, because we are not irresponsible. We shall therefore rule against this motion. On the other hand, and I will also say so in the general discussion, we will be very demanding on the modalities of this text. There are some points that we wish to adjust: we have already spoken in committee, we will present them again in the general discussion and we have tabled amendments to this effect. We wish to work on this text in order to make it as clear as possible. The French ask us to do so and we owe them this clarity. [[Applause on several benches of the Dem group]] Therefore, we will not vote on this motion to reject it beforehand so that we have a real dialogue and get some progress. It is on the basis of these decisions that we will consciously decide whether or not to pass the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u20	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u21	Since the essentials have been recalled, I shall make only one remark on behalf of the Socialist and related Group. Indeed, we would have liked, as, I think, the French who are following these debates, to have the minister answer the questions that we have raised.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u22	I answered.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u23	These were not questions in the air and we were waiting for specific answers from you. In this respect, our colleague from the Dem Group has expressed our expectation and demand for this text. So I can only regret your silence: sometimes you have to have dignity for two. In any event, we have explained the reasons why we have tabled this motion of prior rejection, which we will obviously vote for. We will continue to demand specific responses from you, Minister, and the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u24	Mr Olivier Becht has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u25	I confess that I am rather astonished by this motion of rejection. We are here to write the law and if this motion were passed, it would mean that as of June 1 we would no longer have any tools to fight the virus.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u26	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u27	We wouldn't be without anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u28	If, in concrete terms, we should put an end to all the accompanying measures of the companies that we have had to take to support the activities affected by the crisis and which will gradually resume.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u29	Inexact!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u30	In the same way, we could no longer apply about 40 people from countries where variants are circulating, some of whom might be resistant to vaccines, which means that we would put the country at risk. I therefore believe that there is an urgent need to reject the motion to reject it beforehand. Of course, there are still points to be discussed, but we still need to be able to continue to examine the text. However, if we vote on the motion to reject, there will be no discussion, which means that on June 1, we will return to the normal situation, acting as if there were no more than 20,000 contaminations per day and as if the health services were no longer under stress. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] I find this attitude quite surprising on the part of the Socialist Group; Forty years to the day after the election of President François Mitterrand, this shows that a lot of time has passed since he could embody the sense of responsibility and a certain idea of France.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u31	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u32	We can find ourselves in many of Mrs Karamanli's words, because what has been under discussion for a year now is the choice of a heavy institutional imbalance to manage the health crisis and its economic and social consequences as best as possible. And, for the past year, there have been many of us, all opposed, saying that this is an easy solution, by which Parliament is disbanded for as long as possible to allow you to take measures restricting individual and collective freedoms. The message of our Socialist colleague is that there is another possible way in which Parliament could, at regular intervals, establish in co-construction with the Government the necessary measures to manage the health crisis. We will not vote on the motion to reject, because we intend to show you precisely during the debate that on some points you are wrong.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u33	Mrs Martine Wonner has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u34	The vast majority of the Liberties and Territories Group supports this rejection motion, although we are constantly calling for debate in this House. Unfortunately, since 17 March 2020, there has been no debate, and we are suffering the morgue of an executive that crushes not only parliamentarians, senators and deputies, but also the French. It is therefore urgent to say stop, to leave the state of emergency or, at the very least, to allow parliamentarians to make concrete proposals to accompany the French and French in the exit from the crisis, instead of being reduced, as is the case, to validate the insidious establishment of a permanent state of emergency. In addition, it would have been wise for the minister to provide answers to all the questions that have been asked, because the French are waiting for these answers.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u35	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u36	To hear the minister and the rapporteur, Members would not understand anything and the measures taken would be very light, designed only to facilitate the lives of our citizens during the health crisis. Let us point out that I think it is dangerous to talk about a way out of the health crisis and that this seems to me to be more in line with Mr Macron's political agenda than with the real state of the pandemic in France or in the world. Moreover, my reading of this text is that it is rather a new episode of the state of emergency in which the country has been plunged for more than a year now. Moreover, the only difference between the state of emergency and the state of health crisis exit regime – since it is almost identical to the law of July 2020 – is the impossibility, in the post-crisis regime, of decreed strict confinement, which leaves room for measures establishing a permanent emergency regime. In addition to the fact that the debates in the committee have shown that in many respects this bill is not well linked – I am thinking of the government's amendment on health passes or the derogations from the Labour Code, which I think are once again the result of economic and social imperatives on the world of work. Some of our colleagues believe that this motion of rejection is not appropriate. They might be right if it were possible to debate the substance. As far as the La France group is concerned, I have just learned that of the 17 amendments we have tabled, eight were declared inadmissible, precisely those proposing alternative strategies to the one proposed, which should have been at the heart of our debate. We will therefore vote in favour of the motion to reject.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u37	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u38	We will have the opportunity to say more in the general debate, but the GDR Group will vote on this motion to reject for at least one reason: contrary to what Mr Becht said, having a sense of responsibility is seeking efficiency. However, I do not think that putting democracy in parentheses and confiscating Parliament's powers has proved to be a guarantee of efficiency in managing this crisis – many of our neighbours have not opted for a state of emergency, and parliaments, elected assemblies have deliberated and collectively taken decisions when necessary.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u39	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u40	In order to be accountable and effective, decisions must be accepted and, in order for them to be accepted, they must be debated and discussed collectively. It is not a defence counsel, no one knows exactly the deliberations or the nature of the exchanges that can be enough to deal with this crisis. As we have seen, many mistakes have been made, which could probably have been avoided if there had been collective debate and deliberation, even if, I repeat, it is not easy to govern at this time. There are other issues we are concerned about in this bill, including the social aspect that Éric Coquerel referred to or other points raised by Marietta Karamanli. That is why we will vote in favour of the motion to reject.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u41	In the general debate, Mr Guillaume Gouffier-Cha spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u42	For more than a year now, the whole world and our country have been plunged into this particularly violent health crisis, more than a year and more than with responsibility, in accordance with the Constitution and the law, we take adequate and proportionate measures to act, protect lives, stop the spread of this virus and enable health workers to carry out their work. Of course, we know the efforts that this represents for all, but they are necessary. As we speak, the epidemic is still a daily reality in our country, even if we see positive prospects, thanks to the measures we have taken in recent months, thanks to the civicism of the French and thanks to the rise of the vaccination campaign. It is this situation that leads us today to discuss a bill that does not extend the state of health emergency once again, but proposes a progressive and proportionate exit framework. In view of the health, economic and social situation, we wish to welcome the Government's decision not to extend the state of emergency beyond 1 June and to enter, from 2 June until 31 October, a period of transition and gradual exit from the state of emergency. This decision was desired by many of us. We are indeed convinced that, in the face of the exceptional duration of this health crisis, we must put in place a suitable framework for action, which is no longer that of the state of emergency and allows us to return gradually but effectively to life before, while maintaining just and proportionate levers for action. That is what this bill is proposing. Of course, there are several points of debate, and we will discuss them in the coming hours. I shall retain five of them, which we have already discussed in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. The first concerns the end date of this transition period. If I hear some proposals, I am convinced that we must maintain the date of October 31, which is a relevant and reasonable date for the vaccination campaign. This date also offers readability to the French and to all sectors of activity. The second point concerns the introduction of the health pass. We knew for several months that we would have to discuss it, and we wish it. If we need this mechanism to restart the economy, we need to define very clearly the scope of the activities that could be affected. In this case, we draw a red line: the health pass can never concern the activities of daily life. In this regard, I would like to welcome the amendment by the Chairman of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, Yaël Braun-Pivet, which we have adopted in committee and which formalises this requirement. The third point concerns curfew, which can currently only be triggered during a state of health emergency. If we understand the continuation of this system in view of the current health situation which is more degraded than at the same time last year, we welcome the fact that the system is very limited in time, since it cannot be applied beyond 30 June 2021. We will, however, clarify its implementation from 9 June, and we expect specific responses from the Government regarding the related monitoring arrangements, which remain an exorbitant mechanism under ordinary law, which is serious, even for a month. The fourth point under discussion concerns article 2, which gives the Government the possibility of triggering, for a period of two months, a territorialized state of health emergency. In view of the lessons we can learn from the summer of 2020 and the current health situation, we believe that this mechanism is necessary, provided that it is perfectly supervised and controlled by Parliament. The Government has wished to restore it, since the provisions originally proposed have not been validated by the Law Committee: we understand this, but the La République en marche group will propose, together with the rapporteur Jean-Pierre Pont, whose work I would like to commend, a compromise on which we should agree. The last point I take is the preservation of the data. I stress here that the text we are discussing today is not intended to provide for the modalities for strengthening our digital sovereignty, a subject to which we are all committed, or even to review the way in which the SNDS operates. We will have the debate in this House, but let us try not to lose sight of two imperatives: not only must we not weaken our health data storage systems, but we must also bear in mind that our researchers will need the data from this crisis for their work, which must enable us to draw all the lessons we can learn from it in order to improve our care policies. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Actir ens groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, the health crisis we are experiencing is unique, it will have marked each and every one of us for a long time. We will never forget it. In the coming weeks, we will have the opportunity to begin a return to normal life: this step, however, does not relieve us of our responsibilities. Also, let's live up to it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u43	Mr Philippe Gosselin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u44	It is important that we meet today to put an end to the state of health emergency. At the beginning of June, we will finally have emerged from this exorbitant system of common law, from the state of emergency that we have been living for too many months. France and the French are eager to regain their freedom. The situation is still serious, everyone knows and measures – especially a government party like ours – and it is of course that the Government needs texts to act, to continue to be present, to do its duty and the work that is expected of it. However, the text before us today is not up to what could be expected. In reality, it's a Canada Dry text: a text that looks like the output, looks like the recovered freedom, but is not. Because, with the exception of general containment, there is virtually no change in the state of health emergency. This is once again the demonstration of the trivialization of the use of the state of emergency,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u45	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u46	... whose supposed output, in whistle, in scissors, in bevels – each one will call it as it pleases – is not a real exit from the state of emergency. Indeed, until 31 October, which is a very distant deadline, it will still be possible for the Government to operate a significant number of levers. This will be almost twenty months since March 2020; It is a long period of time which, moreover, does not provide for re-visiting clauses as they have been requested on numerous occasions by parliamentarians from several benches, including in the seats of the majority. It is true that it is a bit of a mess, this Parliament which wants to meet regularly; who wants to prevent public officials and cabinet members from going on vacation – to repeat the argument you put against us a few days ago, minister. No! Parliament is there to act, to monitor, to evaluate; He's here to do his job. There is no difficulty in bringing it together and it is a shame that once again, despite the events, we are, in a way, subject to the diktat of the executive which does not want to listen more to Parliament.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u47	You are asking for more democracy, and you are only two LR MPs to be present!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u48	Whoddu health pass? What of the amendment, removed from the Government's cap, which the Law Commission examined on 3 May without the State Council or the National Commission on Informatics and Freedoms having been able to pronounce itself? A notice will be given on Wednesday, that is, after the bill has been reviewed. That's good: it's the democracy version Macron and its majority. I admit I don't taste it very much. What about the definition of "great gathering"? We don't even know. What are the texts that manage the daily, or the least daily? This will remind us of the good memories of the essential and the non-essential. In any case, it's obscure, abscons, and we have to go back to that. What about this curfew that will go until the end of June when curfew is only possible, in principle, during the state of health emergency? You can see that in reality, we don't really get out of it. What about the state of health emergency that can be declared in 10% of the territory for a period of two months? Here too, Parliament is thrown out: move around, there is nothing to see! Two months is one more month than in the current situation, which is already raising many questions. And what about health data protection? Data will be transferred to the national health data system, for a period of 20 years, which are only pseudonymized, and not anonymized – I would remind you that pseudonymization allows, under certain conditions, to go back, and thus to find the holders of these health data. There is a real issue here, which deserves special attention. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] To sum up, there are five contentious points out of eight articles; and again, I ignore the elements that relate to the organisation of the next departmental and regional elections. The text therefore presents real difficulties. Once again, it does not make it possible to reconcile, as we wish and as the citizens expect, individual freedoms and public freedoms with the necessary protection of public health. It is this balance that is lacking, and I hope that we will reach a better agreement than on the other texts we have examined so far.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u49	Mr Philippe Latomb has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u50	"And in the storm and the noise, Clarity reappears to grow... » Through these verses, Victor Hugo expresses what our fellow citizens have been telling us for months with their words. They call for a coherent and clear public voice, and it is not a day without asking us to make this demand known to the Government. After months of sacrifice, self-denial, suffering and effort, the French wished to return to normal life. Oh, of course, they understand that the situation is still tense, that the virus is still circulating and that it continues to make victims. But they want to be able to predict, build, anticipate, despite the uncertainties about the economic and social consequences of the crisis. We must hear them and accompany them by making the text clear, coherent and intelligible; It is, moreover, a parliamentary prerogative in the Constitution and, as far as the drafting of the law is concerned, a constitutional principle. The Group of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats identifies three essential points, which have already been discussed at length in the Committee on Laws but which still require particular work at the sitting, and on which we have tabled amendments which we expect them to be discussed objectively. This is the date of exit from the transitional regime, the time allowed to the executive to decide on local confinement and, finally, the sanitary pass. The date foreseen in the text for an exit from the transitional regime on 30 October is too distant, and this choice is inconsistent in view of the announcements made by the President of the Republic and then by the Government. The fact that vaccination is progressing, the aim being that all French immunized before the end of the summer, calls for a closer date. Our compatriots want to get out of this exceptional state quickly; We, parliamentarians, too.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u51	Even the majority disagree!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u52	We ask you to advance this date to September 30th. We make a commitment to come back at any time, if necessary, to consider a text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u53	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u54	All the oppositions have tabled amendments on this point; A compromise around an earlier date would represent a strong sign in favour of concord and national union, which the French have been demanding for so long.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u55	Shit!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u56	With regard to the possibility for the Government to decree local confinements, we welcome the work done in committee, which has led, out of respect for our constitutional prerogatives, to reduce to one month the period during which Parliament's agreement would not be required. Again, out of responsibility, in the event that the health situation demands it and we should be seized of a text urgently during the summer, we will be present, as we have always been. Rather than adopting the amendment proposed by the Government, which seeks to restore inextenso the provisions deleted in committee, we could provide for an exception for the months of July and August. We sincerely believe that we can move forward together on the subject. Last point: the health pass, which will undoubtedly still take long minutes or even hours of our debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u57	There's a chance...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u58	As he said in committee, our group supports this scheme, unlike the vaccination passport mentioned above. The pass is respectful of everyone's freedoms as long as it is reserved for specific events and its use is clearly excluded for the acts of everyday life – frequenting restaurants, cinemas, shops – and clearly defined by law. We do not want a vague text that would only refer to decrees. These are essential, of course, but within a framework imposed by law, and therefore defined by us, parliamentarians, whose role it is. We have therefore tabled amendments to define the concept of "great gathering" by setting a threshold – which would have the strength of clarity for the French – and a maximum density, drawing in this the lessons of the procedures conducted before the Council of State, particularly concerning places of worship. Similarly, the expression "some places" is too vague. We wish to define more precisely the places, establishments and events concerned, as we wish to discuss the particular case of night establishments through the amendment by our colleague Christophe Blanchet, so as to avoid a psychodrama comparable to that which we have known about essential and non-essential shops. We have the right to learn from past experiences and we must avoid ridiculing ourselves with protocols or directives that are too vague and subject to permanent interpretation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u59	Very well said!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u60	I will address two other points of lesser importance, but not negligible. The first concerns the integration into the NSDS of information collected in the context of the crisis of the covid-19. We support their storage in secure and sovereign health data warehouses in order to facilitate research on the pandemic, on possible future treatments or vaccines, and on the consequences it will have for our citizens through longitudinal monitoring. There is no debate on this point, let us be clear. Nevertheless, the data on the tracing of contact cases on potential risks of contamination were obtained from our fellow citizens by promising that they would disappear by 31 December 2021 at the latest. We have tabled an amendment to ensure the original date, as access to most of this data remains possible through other channels in the NSDS. The second point concerns respect for European law and its necessary incorporation into our law. As you know, our group is deeply committed to Europe and its institutions. Let us not overtranspose the texts into our law. The notion of "recovery certificate" should be preferred to the words "recovery document". A European term exists which covers precise deadlines and tests: use it immediately. So, ladies and gentlemen, the Group of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats will pay close attention to this evening's debates, and probably tomorrow's.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u61	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u62	[[Applause on the benches of the Dem group]] It is in the light of the progress achieved during our discussions that our group will position itself on the text. If I do not share his entire work, I recall François Mitterrand's words: "Clearness is the most difficult form of courage. This is the courage we must have tonight.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u63	Citation of circumstance!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u64	Mr Olivier Becht has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u65	We are discussing this bill at a time when we have begun the third debunking and at a time when our country already has about 5.7 million people infected with covid-19. This number corresponds to the number of people tested positively, and it is likely that the number of people affected is actually much higher, especially if asymptomatic cases are taken into account. We regret more than 106,000 deaths; They're all bereaved families. Finally, we are aware of cases of "long covid", i.e. persistent symptoms of the disease. A series of measures restricting freedom has been in force for almost a year – freedom of movement, freedom of trade, freedom of assembly and, for some, freedom of worship – and an amount of astronomical expenditure has been committed to compensate for the loss of activities. It is in the honour of the Government to have been able to protect society, but it has been a significant cost to public finances: between compensation measures and stimulus measures, we will have spent almost 400 billion euros more than was provided for in the budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u66	Five hundred billion, even.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u67	The question this evening is whether we can safely get out of the health crisis. Of course, we would all like to return to normal life as soon as possible. But the reality of the figures is that we still have about 20,000 contaminations a day; we see a significant tension in the care system, particularly in resuscitation; Unfortunately, we also have 200 to 300 deaths a day. Release of our efforts in a brutal manner would obviously be irresponsible, as this could lead to a fourth wave; for those who have some summer vacation plans, it would be the risk of being re-established when the time comes. It is therefore particularly important, Minister, to keep the tools to stop the epidemic for a few more weeks or even a few months, but also to ensure that vaccination continues to progress. We would like it to move faster, but it depends on the pace of vaccine production and also on the willingness of the French to be vaccinated; Everyone will have to play the game if we want to achieve collective immunity. So there are brake tools in the bill – some of which have been cited – and others that make sure we don't contaminate at large gatherings. Of these tools, two are particularly important: health pass and curfew. The Action Together group is rather in favour of the health pass as proposed by the Government today. This would be not a requirement for vaccination, but the ability to indicate in an application whether one is vaccinated or, failing that, if one has passed a negative PCR test, in order to be able to either cross a border or participate in a large event involving more than 1000 people – the gauge set seems quite reasonable to us. As for the maintenance of curfew, it is obviously unfriendly, even though it is now intended to apply to more advanced hours of the night. At the same time, it is one of the measures that work to limit the spread of the epidemic. We therefore consider this to be a necessary evil for a few months to come.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u68	What a white-sing!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u69	The Acting Together group will vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u70	Wait until the debates are over: they could enlighten you!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u71	We believe that it is necessary as it stands. Of course, we question the strategy. If by extraordinary – we do not wish – there was to be, in spite of the measures taken, a new wave of covid, which would force us to establish a new state of health emergency, then the Group of the European People's Party would like – as you know, Minister, because we have made it clear for seven months – to see the failure of the strategy of braking the virus and to move on to a strategy of eradicating the virus or "zero covid" strategy, in order to tackle at the heart of the problem. It would be to take a little harder measures, but to achieve more effective results in a shorter period of time.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u72	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u73	We have a feeling, collectively, that we're back a year. On the one hand, because, unfortunately, the epidemic has experienced two new waves, which have forced the return of the state of health emergency. On the other hand, because today's debate is again about the conditions under which we can get out of the state of health emergency and on the parliamentary and governmental path to be taken, not only in the health field, but also to deal with the economic and social consequences of the crisis for many of our citizens. As I said earlier, the fundamental reproach that can be made to you is to choose the facility: the ease of considering all the measures that the executive can take, even though Parliament has given up its prerogatives; the ease, for this purpose, of a systematic use of orders; the ease in setting deadlines, since you are planning the earliest possible deadlines for these measures – which are not part of the state of emergency, but are not measures under ordinary law either – in order to anticipate, fortunately or unfortunately, the case where the health situation would not be satisfactory again and would not allow our fellow citizens to return to a more normal life. In fact, the text raises three issues. First of all, I repeat, there is an institutional problem concerning Parliament's place. In this case, the imbalance is too great, in our view, between the executive and the legislative branches. Our colleague Stéphane Peu reminded us that, in other major democracies, including in European democracies close to ours, we have not made this choice: we have respected the usual balance of powers, which means that the law should come from Parliament, the place where the democratic debate is expressed. We then see, even more clearly with this text, that there is a legal problem. The state of emergency is a totally derogatory regime. However, although its title indicates that it is a matter of leaving the state of emergency, this text actually tends to extend it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u74	Canada Dry!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u75	If we add to each other the measures provided for in the text, in particular the extension of the curfew and the possibility – which is likely to be restored by amendment – of introducing partial confinement in territorial districts representing less than 10% of the national population, we find that this corresponds to the fullness of the prerogatives of the state of health emergency, which poses a real problem. Finally, there is the question of acceptability by our fellow citizens. Of course, we welcome the responsible behaviour they have adopted, collectively and individually: they have been able to comply with all the prohibitions, to take all the precautions that the State had recommended to them, in order to protect the entire population from the spread of the virus. However, in order for them to accept these additional measures, they still need to understand the meaning of them. To this end, in particular, the health pass should not concern the acts of daily life – the conditions for its implementation should be determined not by law, but by regulation; We will submit amendments to that effect. Furthermore, it should be pointed out that the large gatherings in question are those in which the density of participants present at the same time at the same place leads to the additional risk of spread of the virus, which is justified by the fact that the participants are asked to report either vaccination or a negative PCR test. In this regard, I would like to ask a question to the Minister of Solidarity and Health – as he has been absent momentarily, I will do a little later: can the fact that he has contracted the virus and developed antibodies constitute a guarantee? Therefore, could a positive serological test be accepted as part of the health pass? In the end, what we condemn you is an overly coercive vision of managing the health crisis. That is why the IDU and independent group will vote for the majority against this text or abstain.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u76	Mr Paul Molac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u77	Since November 2015 and the establishment of a state of emergency to combat terrorism, the French have lived under a regime of exception rather than under the ordinary regime. This observation is not necessarily made to please me. The new emergency exit regime you are proposing remains a state of emergency that does not say its name: the bill tends to extend the succession of emergency regimes under which we have been living since the beginning of the health crisis by another five months. In view of the possibilities offered by the common law in the Code of Public Health, which the Freedom and Territory Group has repeatedly recalled, we are concerned about the indefinite extension of this state of emergency. In addition, it leads to a divestiture of Parliament's powers. However, I would tend to think that if we sit here as representatives of the people, it is not for nothing. Therefore, the least we can do would be to co-build these measures with Parliament. Many French people are bearing less and less restrictions, some of which are difficult to understand, admit it. A 19-hour curfew in an area where the virus is absolutely not circulating is fundamentally difficult to conceive and, therefore, to accept. According to the defined vaccination schedule, 30 million French, or two thirds of the adult population, will be vaccinated by the summer. However, vaccination seems to be an obstacle to the spread of the virus. In this case, why extend the exit regime to a deadline as far away as October 30? Behind these regimes of restriction of freedom, there is a real problem of trust. The curfew measure, which you wish to extend, or the attestation system, which has already earned our fellow citizens more than 2.2 million verbalizations, is based on permanent suspicion. Yet the vast majority of the population is virtuous. On the contrary, the fight against the pandemic requires accountability and co-construction. Other European democracies face the epidemic by putting greater trust in their people. Moreover, the Government still does not appear to have taken into account the need to respect Parliament. As always, the President of the Republic decides, the Government executes, the Parliament and local elected officials are asked to acquiesce. However, it is not Parliament's role, nor is it the role of local elected officials, who are also elected by the people. The Government's willingness to retain for another two months the possibility of declaring a territorialized state of emergency without consulting Parliament attests to this. We therefore welcome the fact that this measure has been abolished in committee and hope that there will be sufficient votes to ensure that it is not reinstated in committee. However, we note a positive point: it appears that the Government is beginning to become aware of the need to adapt the measures to local contexts. After more than a year of measures adopted almost exclusively uniformly throughout the country, it is better to be late than never! I come, in detail, to the measures presented. We oppose the introduction of a health pass, even though it would apply only for specific events. Indeed, this would create a dangerous precedent. Adopting a welcome amendment by its Chair, the Law Committee has made it clear that the pass cannot be claimed for purposes other than those provided for. Thus, it will not be possible to do so in everyday life, for example when you go to the restaurant or the cinema. However, what if the epidemic continues? What about the next epidemic? Parliament cannot open such a Pandora's box, as this could lead to the generalisation of this type of discriminatory practice in all aspects of citizens' lives. We oppose the extension of the curfew until 30 June. It seems unlikely to us that we will retain this measure that violates the most fundamental of freedoms, that of moving, even as the deconfinity accelerates and the bars, restaurants and sports halls will reopen. You propose that the State may object to a person's choice of place for quarantine placement. This is also evidence of the lack of confidence I have mentioned. We cannot accept that the Government can continue to order the closure of entire categories of establishments, while businesses have paid a heavy price during this crisis and are taking all the necessary health measures to accommodate the public in safety. The possibility must be left open, with strict sanitary measures in place for the reception of customers. As far as labour law is concerned, the text tends to extend until 31 October the possibility for an employer to impose on its employees the obligation to take their leave at any time and to aggravate this measure by increasing the number of days concerned from six to eight, at the same time as the first genuine holiday period for workers is concerned. We do not understand what justifies this measure, which is being fought by all the trade unions. Finally, if we support the adaptation measures envisaged for the organisation of regional elections – these measures are, in our view, necessary – why have we removed in committee the provision that the public service is responsible for organising a debate between the candidates, which would nevertheless provide serious guarantees? [[Mrs. Martine Wonner applauds]] In the end, the vast majority of members of the Libertés et Territoires Group will vote against this text, which is still far too restrictive and violates freedoms for an alleged regime to leave the state of emergency.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u78	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u79	I doubt that the bill we are looking at is the "out of the health crisis." On the other hand, it is certainly that of extending a state of emergency: this text will allow you to extend not only the state of emergency until 31 August, but also an exceptional regime until October. But we cannot take this lightly. An executive, whoever he is, in the name of what he considers to be the effectiveness of his action, naturally tends to exonerate himself from the brakes placed on his power, and this is even more true under the Fifth Republic. That is why Montesquieu had erected the separation of the three powers as a remedy for abuses: "For power not to be abused, it is necessary that, by the disposition of things, power cease power. This provision of the things by which power stops power is the rule of law, the rule of law to which, in matters of safety and health now, you have become accustomed to replacing a quasi-permanent state of emergency. In the long run, this is tantamount to reversing the traditional rule of the Republic that freedom is the principle, and its restriction is the exception. If I recall these facts here, it is that they are no longer for the Government. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, it is up to the legislative power, that is, to us, to ensure this. What is more, this ease, this imbalance in the balance between freedom and security makes you make mistakes. For the last year, you have been refusing any alternative proposal to confinement, and you are finally content to set the button to "more" or "less" restrictions on freedom: more or less drastic confinement; varying degrees of movement control; More or less curfew. You simply change the degree of the restrictions, depending on the mood of the moment, while over the long term there is a serious doubt about the effectiveness of these measures. This is the case with the curfew, which is very liberticide, which you use so easily: contrary to what you say, we have no proof of its effectiveness against the virus, especially since it is not necessary to be a great cleric to see that the concentrations of population it causes in public transport or shops are, on the contrary, an additional risk factor, as several studies have found. Basically, you only rely on the vaccine to get the country out of business. This is risky, because if the vaccine is absolutely essential to curb the disease, or at least mitigate its effects, no one can say that it avoids its transmission effectively and for a long time. In this area too, your volte-face does not reassure us. On the essential issue of free licensing, while France rejected the request made by India and South Africa before the World Trade Organization last February, we finally heard the head of state at the Porto summit state that he was ashamed that he had preceded Joe Biden in that direction, while explaining that this was not the priority of the moment. The only novelty of this text, its heart, is therefore the health pass. You started by saying that it would only be used at borders, probably to reassure us. You now propose, at the last minute, to extend its use to certain gatherings; exactly what we feared. It is an absurd amendment: why should we aim at fairs or leisure gatherings, and not at other gatherings in places of work or worship? Above all, it is the type of society that you propose with this amendment that worries us, because we know it well and we see it with curfew: once a principle is accepted, you extend its scope and duration of application. No, we do not agree that the French should be controlled, monitored and discriminated against on the basis of an alleged state of health. You say that never the sanitary pass will be required in daily activities, but how can you affirm it? Once it is set up, how will you avoid a restaurateur, for example, demanding it at the entrance to its restaurant, in order to satisfy a particular clientele? I will conclude by going back to your willingness to impose restrictions on your convenience in certain territories based on the rate of contamination observed. It would be a double penalty. I see it well in my department of Seine-Saint-Denis: when the epidemic situation is more serious than elsewhere, it is due to the inequalities experienced in the provision of care and the difficult social situation. For these departments, as for everyone else, it is not "territorialized" punishments that are needed, but appropriate solutions. Basically, I see that your strategy is more to build a society in which we live with the virus than to seek to eradicate it. There are alternatives, however; We have proposed, others have proposed, too. You could organize a rolling society, the time of the pandemic; you could offer real material conditions for the isolation of contaminated persons; you could develop a large contingency plan for hospitals, allowing the creation of beds and the hiring of staff; you could equip schools and closed places of activity with air purifiers and CO sensors; You could develop massive self-tests. None of this is in the bill, none of it will be, since the amendments we proposed were found inadmissible. As you will understand, ladies and gentlemen, the La France insoumée group will vote against this bill, which manages the prolongation of the health crisis and provides for unnecessary restrictions on freedom.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u80	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u81	So we're back to prolonging the state of health emergency once again. Even if the bill purports to organize its exit, it is in fact the continuation of a derogatory operation to that of the institutions that is being discussed. Of course, the health crisis is serious and far from behind us. Every time the Communist deputies have had the opportunity to do so, we have stressed that at this particular time, governing France is anything but easy; We do not intend to give lessons about anything or to adopt a peremptory tone. That is why we can only regret the method finally adopted by the President of the Republic and the executive. The Elysée, confined with a handful of experts, chose to decide everything, on its own, without relying on Parliament, without taking into account the testimony or proposals of the elected representatives, regardless of the territory or the sensitivity they represent, without taking into account the feedback, nor without listening to the intermediary bodies of trade unions and professional organizations. Beyond the general agitation of this mode of operation, it is the question of the results that is being asked. No, the concentration of powers is not synonymous with efficiency. Effective measures are those that are informed, legitimate and therefore agreed upon. At the heart of an active process, it is Parliament that we should have found again; It would have been a valuable help in managing the crisis, correcting errors, proposing and discussing alternative scenarios, based on the risks identified on the ground, in neighbourhoods, villages or businesses. We had already regretted this very dangerous slope. As the country faces a major crisis, there is a concern that you do not judge the institutions that are able to meet the challenge. Since 2015, we have been subjected more often to a state of emergency than to a normal functioning of the institutions. While trust is already so weak in the democratic life of the institutions, we make the choice to bypass them as soon as the wind rises. Knowing that the challenges could multiply – climate challenges, wars, serious economic crises – such a functioning is not reasonable. We have become accustomed to this derogatory regime and this habit is dangerous. It helps to undermine the relationship of mutual trust between the elected representatives of the nation and the citizens, as well as to strengthen the credit given to the discourse of the supporters of strong and authoritarian power. Thus, you ask us to let you introduce, when you consider it useful, a vaccination pass. We could have accepted the principle of such a provision, but not the white-sing that you are asking for. The bill also contains a number of concerns that have led us to introduce amendments. I am thinking of feeding the health file with data that is not anonymized, under conditions of collection, storage and processing whose security is not guaranteed. On the other hand, forcing already hard-tested employees to take advantage of their leave only when their employer so wishes confirms the social impensation that characterizes you. Finally, I am thinking of the winter truce, which you refuse to prolong, when, for many families, the difficulties do not resolve, quite the contrary. For all these reasons, which concern both principles and concrete provisions, the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left, you will not be surprised, ladies and gentlemen, to vote against this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u82	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u83	"Keep another four to six weeks": on March 1st, Emmanuel Macron urged the French to tighten their teeth for a short period of time and thus let us see the exit of the tunnel. Eleven weeks later, the Government is playing the extensions with a text that, for the second time in a year, is supposed to prepare us for an end to the health crisis. A feeling of already-seen, which would this time be more optimistic, since we now have in our game the card of vaccines. But as always since the beginning of the health crisis, our impulses of freedom are quickly tempered by discourses that are intended to be measured but which, in the end, worry. Because you decided to keep your hands on the individual freedoms of the French until October 31, just like that! However, we could have chosen another date, as some have proposed in committee; Not for pleasure, not because we deny the seriousness of the situation, but so that Parliament can play its role of counter-power, quite simply. But from that, you don't want it. Without repeating the ever-present recensions of all your misses, from masks to tests to self-tests or vaccines, it must be admitted that the confidence of the French people in the Government has been seriously eroded. In this respect, Parliament's systematic effacement does not plead in your favour. An example that is close to my heart and for which, despite my letters and inquiries, I have never obtained an answer: vaccines and vaccination centres. After asking the municipalities to be the legitimate relays of the vaccination campaign, after promising your unwavering support, a quarter later, your promises fly away, leaving salty slates. In Béziers, we are able to vaccinate 7000 to 10,000 people a week. For the first quarter of operation alone, the city spent 595,000 euros; a nice sum, especially when we know that the Government has committed to repay... €50000 per quarter and that already, CPAM (primary health insurance fund) and ARS (regional health agency) are turning the ball in order not to pay the bill. Admit that we are far from the "whatever it costs" chanted by Emmanuel Macron a few years ago! One more slogan, one less reality. I admit it, I'm moving away from the subject we're dealing with. Unlike the rapporteur, I will not oppose health and freedom, because freedom and health security are the two pillars of a real exit from crisis. To get out of the crisis, Minister, you proposed the health pass. This document, originally intended for travel to or from abroad, could now be a condition for access to large gatherings or places with more than 1000 people throughout the summer. In the absence of better precision, such a threshold seems disconnected from common sense. Will this limit apply only to closed places or also to open places? Will it be taken into account the total capacity and therefore the expected population density? You explained to us that this health pass would in no way concern the activities of everyday life, even if – should we say so? – This clarification is not included in the bill. But what exactly is a daily activity?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u84	And what about the distinction between essential and non-essential!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u85	Is theatre a daily activity? What about a rugby game, a mass or a procession? So many unanswered questions. Another contentious issue in this bill is health data. Contrary to all the commitments made, hand-in-hand, by the Government, not to keep them beyond 31 December 2021, we learn from the text that these data can finally be preserved twenty years – just that! – and instead of being anonymised, they will only be pseudonymized, which will, if necessary, allow the identity of the persons concerned to be traced; Here's something to worry about. Finally, the last stumbling block: the systematic use of orders. Since the beginning of the health crisis, 120 orders have already been issued, of which very few have been ratified by Parliament. I have the greatest difficulty in obtaining the exact number of orders ratified: admit that this is not very reassuring. So, if we can be happy to see that the number of patients in resuscitation has fallen below the 5000 mark, let us not continue in the same direction, because soon it is our democracy that may have to be put on oxygen.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u86	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u87	I will make three observations on the continuing extension of the state of emergency, the vagueness of the bill and the legal issues it poses. What a waste of time, ladies and gentlemen! This text intervenes in a particular context, after three periods of confinement in fifteen months. We would need to have an informed debate on the challenges of exiting the state of health emergency, but we will not have it. As I said in the spring of 2020: in the face of the pandemic, there was no objection to the application of section L. 3131-1 of the Public Health Code or the provisions of the 1955 Act. That was not the Government's choice. Since then, the Assembly, in its diversity, has done its job to improve this exceptional regime; All of them, on these benches, contributed to it. Proposals aimed, among other things, at ensuring that the various emergency regimes are provided with comparable guarantees, including constant information and referrals to Parliament, or an opinion of the Constitutional Council, based on that provided for in Article 16 of the Constitution; to consolidate the organisation of Parliament's work and strengthen its prerogatives in times of crisis; the establishment of a maximum period for the extension of the state of health emergency; a parliamentary debate is organised whenever a break in scientific knowledge is found. The Government did not take any of these proposals into consideration, although they could have led to consensus. The time has not been used to better predict, discuss and control, and thus to build the confidence of the French and French – I regret it. You kept the fuzzy. This new text aims to give the Prime Minister, from 2 June to 31 October inclusive, that is, for five months, the power to take measures "by decree [...], in the interest of public health and solely for the purpose of combating the spread of the epidemic". In order to respond to a localised deterioration of the health situation, when an active circulation of the virus is found in a part of the territory, it may regulate or prohibit the movement of persons and vehicles, unless it is strictly necessary for family, professional and health needs; regulating access to premises open to the public; regulating people's gatherings, meetings and activities on the highway and in places open to the public. The text seeks to clarify that a state of health emergency could be declared, until 31 October, in one or more specific territorial districts, for a period of two months, which is more than that in force. I summarized the philosophy of the text earlier. It is designed to provide for an end to the crisis in the state, reaffirming a permanent delegation of power to the executive, authorized to limit public and individual freedoms. In the context of territorial management, the Government may delegate this power to the Prefect. This provision has been criticized since June 2020, but certain restrictions on fundamental freedoms could be maintained for several months without any intervention by our assembly. Thirdly, I stress the lack of safeguards, since article 1 is intended to give the Government the authority to regulate or even prohibit the movement of persons and the opening of certain establishments. In the same vein, the health pass, a last-minute draft added to the text by the adoption in committee of a government amendment, will require for the first time the use of personal data, as our colleagues have mentioned on several occasions. The amendments that we will be defending will once again aim at remedying the shortcomings of the draft, which constitutes a relegation of the representatives of the nation we are; It remains unclear and carries risks to individual and public freedoms. Yet, at this point, there is no assurance that everything has been well thought out. We will not therefore vote on this text. Indeed, we wish to exercise the responsibilities which the Constitution gives us and which our fellow citizens too often accuse us of not taking care of.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u88	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u89	No response from the Government? Frankly, what a contempt!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u90	I now call, in the text of the commission, the clauses of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u91	Mrs Martine Wonner has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u92	For more than a year, the Government has been sailing on sight and the French have no visibility – on treatments, for example, or rather on the real reasons for the lack of access to care. They have no more visibility on vaccines and their effectiveness, since no transparency is made with regard to the ongoing testing of vaccines that have been selected and authorised in France, despite all the warnings I have addressed to the Minister of Solidarity and Health and to ANSM, the National Agency for the Safety of Medicines and Health Products. Whole sectors of the economy are also deprived of visibility – and of the future. I take this opportunity to convey to you the thanks of the ski resorts, which are quite satisfied: once again the reopening is ridiculous, as is still inconsistent the reopening of the amusement parks, of course without access to the said attractions. [[Protests on a few benches of the LaREM group]] In essence, did the Government ever want the good of the French? Had this been the case, given the huge sums spent for more than a year, perhaps it would have increased the number of beds and increased access to care. What is certain is that this government becomes, without parliamentarians, specialist in restrictions, deprivations, punishments. We could have been seduced by the title of this bill, but I fear that once again we will be disappointed, since the state of health emergency can be reactivated until December 31. Members of the Government, please trust parliamentarians to re-establish the debate and finally re-establish democracy in our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u93	Mr Philippe Gosselin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u94	Mr Minister, Mr Secretary State, Mr rapporteur, democracy begins with respect. [[Protests on the benches of the LaREM group]] For almost two hours we have met in this Chamber, a motion to reject, although rejected, has been debated, and ten speakers and representatives of groups, including one chairman, have followed each other. Two members of the Government were present, but they did not say a word: no intervention by the Minister of Health, who has better to do and who pianos on his phone – no doubt he has more urgent matters to deal with.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u95	Ridiculous!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u96	I'm sick of it! That's contempt!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u97	Stop!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u98	This is ridiculous!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u99	Ladies and gentlemen, we are listening to the speaker on the list!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u100	We've been assembled for two hours, and we haven't got any answers! We have two members of the government for the price of one: it's so much better, but if they're the mutes of the serail, what's the point? Respect and democracy require at least an attempt to answer legitimate questions. The Republican Group and the Socialist and Related Group asked five questions; The Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats themselves have put three. Three of them are common: this should be an issue for you! Even in the majority, questions arise concerning large gatherings, personal data, curfews and health passes. And there is no response from the Government! We come to the discussion of Article 1e r and we have not heard its representatives, except during the intervention of the Minister of Health to present the text. Do you think that's normal? Is that the respect of Parliament?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u101	Stop with the big words!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u102	[[Applause on the banks of the LR, UDI-I,LT and GDR groups]] That shows, Mr. Questel, the tartufferie at work!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u103	Expert word!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u104	I'll give you the compliment!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u105	Calm down!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u106	This is a contempt of Parliament!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u107	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u108	It is true, minister, that parliamentarians have asked questions. That was my case during the general discussion. You were out, so I'll repeat myself. I would really like to get an answer, because this is the health pass, an important subject, on which our fellow citizens need readability. We are told that a vaccination certificate will obviously be accepted, as a negative PCR test of less than 48 hours. What about a certificate of contamination and healing, thus guaranteeing the presence of antibodies to covid-19? In committee, you said that you were waiting for confirmation from European and French health authorities. Where are we? Will the certificate of presence of antibodies be part of the elements accepted for the establishment of a health pass? Like many others, this issue is not controversial. If they do not get answers in the course of this discussion, we will conclude that you do not actually make any case of the parliamentary debate. You may say that Parliament has been asked many times, but we can still be asked and talk in a vacuum, without ever being heard. The lack of answers to our questions perhaps accredits the idea that we do not serve anything. In any event, our fellow citizens absolutely need answers to these questions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u109	I have before me ten deletion amendments, Nos 12, 55, 64, 111, 142, 169, 181, 182, 193 and 228. Mrs Martine Wonner has the floor to support Amendment No. 12.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u110	This amendment, which Mr Molac will also defend on behalf of the Libertés et Territoires Group, seeks to delete the article. Initially, the state of emergency was to last only two months. The French have more than enough of this exceptional regime, which only lasts over and over again. Although they are being made to believe that the text is intended to deal with the post-crisis situation, that is absolutely not what we are talking about here. The bill tends to maintain a curfew after twenty-one hours: when were parliamentarians able to discuss it? On what scientific basis do confinement and curfew after twenty-one hours continue to appear effective? With regard to the introduction of the health pass, the EESC – the Economic, Social and Environmental Council – had conducted a survey of 110,000 citizens, 72% of whom were opposed to it. Finally, we must listen to the French citizens. Finally, I am concerned about the collection of data. We will come back after Article 1, but we can only see that people who simply make a medical appointment on platforms, such as Doctolib, are constantly being hunted and asked for further consultations and possibly vaccinations. That is enough, we must protect the French in any way. I therefore propose to delete Article 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u111	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 55.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u112	We now meet regularly to extend the state of health emergency, but each time you remove Parliament from its control. While it is true that the measures that you are proposing to us today are of lesser scope than those previously examined, and that they have the advantage of being territorialized, some decisions have been very hard to accept for the French: it is more than time to offer them some clarity. Article 1 of the draft law seeks to introduce a system of half-exit from the state of health emergency. A first step will be a reduction of the scheme, but it is immediately accompanied by the maintenance of a curfew for one month. While it is supposed to define the regime for exiting the state of health emergency, article 1 unfortunately tends to severely restrict freedoms for another five months. Just like the bill that was before us last year, this bill incorporates the restrictions on the state of health emergency and adds new ones. It is not acceptable for the Government to have such a long-term power to suspend our freedoms overnight. We are several parliamentarians who have made proposals to reduce this duration, because democracy cannot be put in brackets for another five months. Nor can we stay in an in-between: either the health situation allows us to get out of the state of emergency and we must get out of it, or it does not allow it and we must maintain it. I repeat: it is essential to finally find an institutional balance between the executive power, which must indeed have the means to manage the crisis as quickly as possible, and Parliament, which is in fact disbanded from part of its power. Since we do not have satisfactory answers to all these questions, this Article should be deleted, in particular in order to restore its powers to Parliament.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u113	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor to support Amendment No. 64.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u114	I support a deletion amendment, supported by the IDU and independent group, to express our substantive disagreement with the method that the Government has been following for the past year. It consists of systematically asking Parliament for "full powers" in all areas of the management of the health crisis, both to take measures to protect the health of our citizens and to overcome the consequences of the health crisis on economic and social life. However, a debate on all these measures is essential if our citizens are to adhere to them. The successive studies of opinion all show that our fellow citizens do not trust you to manage the health crisis and its consequences, which requires a certain responsibility on your part. This should lead you, Minister, to seek a real debate, rather than a soft consensus, as you mentioned in your opening speech – indeed the only one you have done so far –: this is indeed the essence of democracy. This would also enable our fellow citizens to regain confidence, not only in the outcome of the health crisis but also in our collective capacity to organise debates allowing a confrontation of ideas, agreements and disagreements, which are legitimately part of political life. It is up to us to find solutions other than by "giving the keys to the truck" to the executive, by allowing the President of the Republic to decide everything alone, with his scientific council, and then to enforce his decisions by the Government and then, from time to time, to ask the Parliament by inviting the majority – who does not measure its share of responsibility in the gap between our fellow citizens and political life – to adopt the measures to renew a state of emergency that has become permanent.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u115	I call Mr Gosselin to support Amendment No. 111.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u116	Article 1e r directs us to the heart of the subject. That we have prospects for exiting the state of emergency is a sign that, despite the situation, things are improving; No one disputes it and everyone can rejoice in it, on all benches. Attention, however, because the exit that is proposed to us today is everything but a true exit: it has the appearance of freedom and change, but the change took place on 10 May 1981 rather than on 10 May 2021, where we are on the contrary in continuity, with the ever-present questions that remain unanswered. A long tunnel will lead us to October 31, 2021, with the possibility for the government to activate almost all the levers, but without the control of Parliament, supposedly too complex to unite and of which the collaborators are presumed to be tired... In short, we will have to suffer a little more from this damn Parliament, which is definitely rabid: strongly that this text be adopted and that we do not come back to it! Such an attitude ends up irritating; Above all, it is incomprehensible because it seriously undermines the acceptability of public speech. A curfew may also take place in June, despite the end of the confinement. As for the health pass, neither the Council of State nor the CNIL were able to rule on it. Many questions therefore deserve answers: we could approve them or not, but we should be provided with them! But no, nothing: it's hardly engaging. Such a debate cannot be described as serene since it is barely democratic: this game of appearances, where it is a matter of playing the watch to adopt the text as soon as possible, cannot satisfy us. That is why this amendment is intended to delete the article.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u117	Mr Eric Coquerel, in support of Amendment No. 142, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u118	It is also intended to delete Article 1e r because the text proposed to us is not trivial: we are offered nothing less than a copy-paste of Article 1 of the Law of 9 July 2020, adopted almost a year ago, organizing the exit from the state of emergency. This bill deals with restrictions on freedoms – freedom of movement, assembly, demonstration – and related fines, the amount of which is far from symbolic for many of our fellow citizens. It is also a question of prohibiting the movement of persons. In fact, the only thing we are sure of since the Constitutional Council's decision of 9 July 2020 is that the text does not allow for widespread confinement, even if it also significantly reduces freedoms. In order to get us through the pill, minister, you reassure us: it is to anticipate the exit from the state of emergency, you tell us. Understand our doubts! On 1 March last, arguing that the curfew could not be contested because it was based on scientific grounds, the President of the Republic explained that we had four weeks of curfew. Four weeks later, not only was curfew maintained, but schools were closed and travel between regions was prohibited. Your estimates therefore do not reassure us of the necessary balance between the restriction of the freedoms that such measures entail and their health impact. That's the point! Finally, let us organize a debate to move from an exceptional and coercive regime to an organization and planning of society, knowing that we must try to eradicate the virus but that it will take many months. Without such a debate in the House, we will only be able to see that the epidemic continues and that our freedoms are restricted to an unbearable point for many of our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u119	Mrs Catherine Pujol has the floor to support Amendment No. 169.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u120	The system of exit from the state of emergency remains a state of emergency which derogates from the ordinary law and which maintains the health police measures restricting freedom. Similar to that of the law of 9 July 2020, it is an in-between which had already shown its limits last summer: either the health situation justifies maintaining the state of health emergency and using all the tools it allows, or it is safe enough to finally get out of this state of emergency. You thus arrogate the possibility of reducing or suspending several fundamental freedoms, from day to day, without involving Parliament. The aim of this amendment is therefore to delete Article 1e r, which, moreover, has an extremely long period of application, since it runs until 31 October 2021.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u121	Amendment No 181 by Mr Aurélien Taché is being defended. I call Mr Molac to support Amendment No. 182.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u122	It will be more than a year and a half since we will live under the regime of the state of emergency and its ersatz, even if the one who will probably be adopted earlier does not say his name. A fundamental question therefore arises, stressed by several of you: that of democracy and the separation of powers. There are two things: either we believe in democracy and Parliament must be involved, or we are Bonapartist and we believe that the state and the administration will always do better than the elected ones, which I do not believe at all. I was not elected by the people to give up the power they gave me. Therefore, it is out of the question that I vote in favour of this state of emergency.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u123	Mr Stéphane Peu has the floor to support Amendment No. 193.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u124	It is also intended to delete Article 1. This bill is presented to us as an exit from a derogatory regime, but in essence, it is a matter of perpetuating it, at least until October 31. I repeat, such a mechanism is unhealthy for our institutions and dangerous for democracy. Moreover, it is ineffective because it does not support decisions on exchanges sufficient to win the consent of the people.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u125	Amendment No 228 by Mrs Laurence Trastour-Isnart is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u126	These amendments to delete Article 1 would bring down all measures to combat the virus as early as 2 June. But I assure you that on June 2nd, the virus will always be present.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u127	According to some of you, the tools of common law are sufficient; I don't believe it. According to others, it would be sufficient to extend the state of health emergency. We chose to take the exit, with the end of the confinement on 1 June and the end of the curfew on 30 June. I therefore express an opinion against these amendments, the adoption of which would be disastrous for France and for the protection of the health of the French.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u128	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u129	Parliamentarians are invited to comment on what tools our country can equip itself to protect the French and to fight effectively against the epidemic. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM groups and Action ens]] Once again, this debate opposes a solid majority, which has always been able to vote courageously in favour of measures that protect, and, for various reasons that I do not dispute because this is not my role, all the oppositions gathered, which present amendments designed to prevent us from putting in place these protective measures for the French. Some consider that Parliament's weight is not enough: Mr Gosselin, there are as many ministers on the bench as Members of the LR Group present in the Chamber!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u130	So what?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u131	So I leave you the lessons of democracy, Mr. Gosselin,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u132	You also did not reply to the Dem group, which is better represented.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u133	...because I've always been present, every minute of the debates.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u134	You can't blame me too!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u135	Other parliamentarians consider that the measures are disproportionate and ineffective: I refer you once again to the epidemiological data and to the situation prevailing in France, Germany, Italy, Spain, England and all the countries that have taken courageous measures to protect the population. If there are not 70000 new contaminations per day but only 18,000, do not believe for a second that it is not thanks to the measures adopted by the majority: on the contrary, they have been protective and allow us to see the end of the tunnel. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] I am of course not in favour of these amendments. If Parliament voted to abolish any provision allowing us to take braking measures to prevent the spread of the virus in the coming weeks, when the epidemic is not over and 5000 people are still in resuscitation, the French would not understand it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u136	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u137	Mr Philippe Gosselin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u138	You, Minister, are free to attack the Members of the LR Group on their numbers in the Chamber. First of all, the LR group is not the only one represented here. And even if he was represented by only one of his members, there are members of other groups present in numbers: however, the questions come from both the opposition and the majority. We share at least three key questions and answer them is not about getting down, unless we consider that the time spent in Parliament is time lost and that we have better things to do! I will hear it, but suffer – I understand that it is difficult for you – that under the Fifth Republic we gather from time to time – not very often, I recognize – the National Assembly and the Senate to try to legislate, sometimes to control, or even to propose.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u139	But we don't stop!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u140	[[Mrs Martine WonneretAgnèsThillapplaudent]] In any case, our position is not binary, even if you seek to reduce the debate to two clans: that of the majority, who would necessarily be virtuous, and that of the oppositions that would want the death of our fellow citizens and the spread of the disease: no! We do not agree with you on the exit as you propose. This does not mean that we refuse to allow the Government to take certain measures or prevent it from working. We simply want an explanation of the health pass, the deadlines, the health data and other elements. These are not superfluous questions; You have to answer that. Let us move forward together and not with a back of our hands, almost pedancing, the remarks that displease you.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u141	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u142	For the past year, Mr. Veran, you have consistently repeated the same arguments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u143	And so are you!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u144	As soon as the opposition tries to say that it may be desirable to look for other solutions, you blame it by replying that if it does not adopt the text as it stands, it will be responsible for sending the French back in the face of the epidemic.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u145	In this case, amend the text, do not delete it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u146	Ladies and gentlemen, we are just amending, so much so that half of the amendments we have tabled on this text have been declared inadmissible even though they were at the heart of the matter! Mr Veran, it cannot be said that everything you have imagined for a year has been successful. I won't throw the stone at you: in the face of an epidemic, we can be wrong. You know very well, however, that the forecasts that Mr Macron made in January did not take shape. You had made the bet that curfew would not exceed the threshold of 20,000 new cases a day, that schools should not be closed and that the economy would continue to function; You know, like me, that wasn't the case!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u147	You're forgetting the variants!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u148	It was known as early as January that the variant had arrived on the territory. I went with Mr.Véran to a regional health agency where, while you were a few to think that we had to confine ourselves again, we were told that the variant was coming to the territory. All the figures were known.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u149	Variants: there are several!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u150	Mr. Macron has taken ineffective action. Do not be afraid, then, that we would offer you more and that we would contest, for example, the health pass. Mr. Véran told us that the majority voted on what the Government was proposing; Indeed, it is almost a rule in your home. In committee, however, I have heard some members of the majority ask the same questions as the opposition.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u151	And even adopt some of our amendments!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u152	So there is obviously a debate. You give us answers without even considering it necessary to argue. The curfew is effective, you say, but on what studies do you rely on to assert it? This is not a way to debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u153	Mrs Martine Wonner has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u154	I will quote the President of the National Consultative Commission on Human Rights: "In time of peace, the Republic has never experienced such a restriction of freedoms". [[Mr. EricBothhorelproteste]] Who does the Government wage war against, except the French? Why so many restrictions of freedoms, always and again? When you want to fight an epidemic, you just take care of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u155	No.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u156	We don't lock up, we don't confine, we don't afford the means to extend this curfew. Yes, this article should be deleted. I do not deny the health situation at all.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u157	Oh, yes, you deny it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u158	Absolutely not. But the figures that continue to be put forward serve only to maintain fear among the French. We're talking about more than 100,000 dead without resetting the counters to zero. That's neglecting the other 500,000 deaths outside the covid. Why aren't we talking about the 600,000 people who have unfortunately died for over a year? We make a fixation on the covid, but we could very well have limited the number of deaths. Why don't you finally change your strategy to offer, in addition to vaccination, access to treatments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u159	I have before me ten amendments, Nos 59, 213, 60, 183, 104, 134, 65, 45, 124 and 174, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 60 and 183 are identical, as are Amendments Nos 104 and 134 and Amendments Nos 45, 124 and 174. I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 59.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u160	I propose to move forward by five months the date of exit of the state of emergency by fixing it to 14 July 2021. A few days ago, Mr Thierry Breton, European Commissioner for the Internal Market, explained that speeding up the delivery of vaccines should enable Europe to achieve collective immunity on 14 July. It therefore seems to me that it is a good date to leave the state of emergency; You will also agree that it is a strong symbol. I therefore propose that this date be put forward from 31 December to 14 July in order to comply with the principles of strict necessity and proportionality, the application of which is all the more important since Article 1 allows a large number of fundamental freedoms to be suspended. The aim of this amendment is therefore simple: to leave the emergency regime that we have known for the most time in a year and, if circumstances so require, to allow Parliament to be brought before us again in July.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u161	Mr Philippe Benassaya's amendment No 213 is being defended. I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 60.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u162	This withdrawal amendment proposes to set the date of exit from the state of emergency on 31 July. The minister explained to us in committee that the date was set for October 31 to avoid the pitfall of the summer holidays and, in the event of a deterioration of the situation, to call Parliament as a matter of urgency. I propose the date of 31 July because Parliament will always be in an extraordinary session and will therefore be able to meet perfectly to exercise its prerogatives. As I said in committee and repeated in the general debate, it is not proposed to reduce this period to please or deny the importance of the health crisis – no one can deny it – but to set in some way a much closer re-visit clause in order to allow Parliament to exercise its prerogatives and the free exercise of democracy. That doesn't seem annoyance to me; during the election period, it is even important for the French.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u163	I call Mr Molac to support Amendment No. 183.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u164	I propose, in turn, to set the date of exit from the state of emergency on 31 July. Parliament will sit in July; We will therefore be able, if necessary, to postpone the end of this state of emergency regime which does not say its name. Minister, you have been very caricatural. What you are accused of is not to make decisions, but to take them alone, unilaterally. Mr Becht asked about the eradication of the virus. Why has there never been a debate in the House on how to fight the virus? You can't accept a man's decision. The Scientific Council is relatively critical of some of the measures that have been taken. For my part, I think a number of things have been well done, but I have never been able to say it here since we have never had this kind of discussion. That is the problem in a democracy.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u165	I call Mr Gosselin to support Amendment No. 104.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u166	I understand that we can have different opinions about the date of exit from the state of emergency – July, August or October, the dates are, like the threshold effects, always difficult to handle. Nevertheless, we have recalled it no less than ten times in the course of the texts on the state of emergency, we want to avoid a long tunnel – all summer, in this case – without a re-visit clause. While we are regularly forced and forced to go back to these texts, we are asking for a precise re-visit clause, voted by common accord. It seems to us that the date of 31 August might be appropriate. Of course, there is no question of allowing the epidemic to flourish during the great holidays, which are conducive to family and friendly gatherings, nor of taking away any jurisdiction from the Government. However, the date of 31 August allows Parliament to meet without any difficulty in July, in the presence of recalcitrant oppositions which you will have to suffer but which, be assured, will be there. The debate can take place without the risk that the majority will be put in a minority, with the latest figures, in the light of what happened at the end of May, in June and until mid-July. We know how to do this; We still have to want to do it – but it's something else. This is a form of obstinacy.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u167	Amendment No 134 by Mrs Delphine Bagarry is being defended. Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor to support Amendment No. 65.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u168	The debate on the date on which the transitional measures are to be lifted is anything but cosmetic: it will depend on Parliament's ability to accept that, by disposing of its essential powers and prerogatives, including with regard to public freedoms, it does, despite all useful work, but above all, the acceptability of the measures by our fellow citizens. Indeed, the longer the date is, the more you put in their minds the idea that the measures taken may not be as effective as one would say, that massive vaccination does not necessarily guarantee that we will be able to put an end to this situation, and that we will have to live with the virus rather than eradicate it. Please do not reply to us, as you did in committee, that if the dates we propose are from 14 July to 30 September, it is probably the 31 October date! Let us at least try to have a constructive debate and avoid deliberately caricature as soon as parliamentarians make proposals that are not yours.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u169	On identical amendments Nos 45, 124 and 174, the Socialist and related groups have asked for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor in support of Amendment No 45.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u170	I will go along the same lines as the various colleagues who have just spoken. I would like to move the date of exit from the state of emergency because the main measures that are proposed, such as restricting the movement of persons and the constraints imposed on the circulation of the virus, raise many questions. This reference is too vague: the implementation of the measures provided for in Article 1e r is not limited in time. In some territories, for example in Île-de-France, the same measures resulting from the state of health emergency remained in force for five months without Parliament being able to give its opinion. That is why we propose another date. As for our request for a public ballot, it is symbolic: we wish to support the willingness expressed by the various colleagues on all benches to ask the Government to advance the date of exit from the state of emergency.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u171	I call Mr Latombe to support Amendment No. 124.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u172	As I said in the general discussion, the whole Group of the Movement for Democracy and Related Democrats hopes that the date of exit from the state of emergency will be advanced in line with the announcements made by the President of the Republic and the Government, in particular that all adult French people who so wish will have the opportunity to be vaccinated before the end of the summer. Consistently, the date could have been set at that time, but it can be understood, given the sometimes erratic delivery of vaccines and population movements during the holidays, that there is a need for some margin. That is why we propose the date of 30 September; We do not wish to go beyond that, that is to say until 31 October. You will notice that all the oppositions and our majority group have tabled amendments along the same lines, considering that the date of 31 October is too far away. You have asked us several times for concord, which we too wish – we have already told you this during the general discussion on the other texts concerning the state of health emergency. But to achieve harmony, we need a strong gesture. So listen to the opposition and part of your majority, the Democratic Movement – which is an important pillar of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u173	Yes, an important pillar!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u174	[[Applause on the benches of the Dem group]] This action would be to set the release date for September 30th. It would show that you have heard the will of the French to give themselves a realistic objective that is as close as possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u175	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u176	I call Mr Sacha Houlié to support Amendment No. 174.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u177	Since we are in a joint debate, it will also be a question of date and it is the consistency of my proposal as well as that of Mrs Karamanli and Mr Latomb whom I want to defend. I propose a period of three months, during which Parliament will sit; The date must therefore be moved forward to 30 September. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group]] This three-month period does not come out of nowhere: Philippe Gosselin and I had considered, in a report assessing the state of health emergency, that Parliament should be able to decide every three months on the measures restricting freedom and on the various authorizations by which we authorize the Government to make orders, because these exorbitant powers of common law are justified by the health crisis. This three-month period would cover the entire end of the regular session until 30 June, the special session in July and the very probable special session in September, since that is how we have been operating since the beginning of the quinquennium. These three months of work for Parliament will allow us to adapt the measures as much as the situation requires. In addition, we will be able to anticipate the parliamentary shuttle.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u178	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u179	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u180	I remain committed to the date of 31 October adopted by the Commission, after its validation by the Council of State and the Scientific Council. It seems timely to me for a number of reasons. The last extension of this regime by the Act of 14 November had also been decided for a period of five months. The law of 11 July 2020 also set the expiry date of the first transitional regime on 30 October. Keeping the date of October 31 will allow us to meet at the end of September, one month after the summer period and most of the vaccinations, to assess the effects. Keeping the date at the end of September would mean meeting in August, in the middle of the summer and in full vaccination, without knowing the consequences. However, it is important to know all these consequences before taking a decision. That is why I am committed to the date of 31 October, which would give us a chance that this is the last text we have to vote on. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u181	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u182	Ladies and gentlemen, I will tell you one thing: I hope that the state of emergency will not be lifted on 31 October or 30 September; That's what we all want. We hope that the virus will get rid of it, that we will end it with this wave, that vaccination will be full, that the French will go on holiday, that we will reopen the shops, the theatres, the restaurants, the bars, the discotheques, the festivals, that we will find the taste of living together, that we will relax the vigilance a little while remaining attentive, perhaps even that we relax the wearing of the mask in the heart of the summer, under a sun of lead, if at least it decides to make beautiful – we never know...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u183	We have to come to Brittany, Minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u184	It's true that there, at least, there's no danger of a heat alert!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u185	Oh!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u186	Everything is possible with the Britons, Minister, you know that!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u187	Let's break in front, Bretons behind: I'd better go back about it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u188	[[Smile]] The presidency is being called into question!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u189	Clearly, we all share the wish that we no longer have to ask ourselves questions of restriction measures, gauges, sanitary passes, braking measures, in short, that all this be behind us once and for all and that we no longer go back to it. This is the scenario where things are going well, in which case this text will not be useful. But it will have one if necessary, because another scenario is not impossible – of the same order as last summer. Remember the situation at the time to assess the consequences of choosing September 30 rather than October 31. Last summer, it's going well in France, with the exception of Guyana. There is an alert in Mayenne but the French are on vacation and are beginning to think that we may see the end of the tunnel. Yet, in the middle of August, the incidence of the virus is increasing among young people in Bouches-du-Rhône. Many experts then minimized the seriousness of this episode as they were young – some even rejoiced that young people contaminate each other. But week after week, day after day, the incidence continued to increase and when the health impact became significant in some parts of the national territory, action had to be taken. Remember the difficulties we then encountered!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u190	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u191	I visited the Bouches-du-Rhône three times, especially to visit the resuscitation services. With elected officials and medical teams, I alerted them about the seriousness of the situation – we were around August 26th. We asked for a local curfew in the Bouches-du-Rhône to stop the spread of the virus, but it was not enough. Then the second wave occurred in early fall, forcing us to take measures of magnitude. The deal will be different this summer, thanks to vaccination. We have already vaccinated a lot of French – more than 500,000 today, an absolute record for a Monday. The campaign continues to grow and you know the mobilization of everyone on the ground. As a result, the population will be better protected from contamination and serious symptoms. This could, we hope, avoid a new outbreak at the end of the summer or at the very beginning of the autumn, as we knew it last year, but that will not prevent us from doing so – the Scientific Council has been very clear on the issue – the risk of seeing epidemic departures there and there that could jeopardize the entire health strategy and against which urgent action should be taken through proportionate braking measures to avoid the extension of a new wave to the whole country. If I referred to the case of Bouches-du-Rhône, it was because the situation worsened in mid-August and the braking measures were applied in September. However, we propose the date of 31 October not for these measures to remain in force until that date, but in order to avoid, in the face of new epidemic outbreaks, having to table in September a new bill on the state of emergency, perhaps for a few days or for a few weeks only, containing measures which would risk being much more restrictive than those which we would have had by fixing the date of exit from the state of emergency a month later. One of two things: either you are voting for these "light" measures that will allow us to deal with any situation, including in September, or we are talking about the need to convene Parliament in September – even though I understand that this is not a problem – to submit an ad hoc bill to you, on the understanding that we could not anticipate the development of the situation and that we might be forced to present a draft establishing a state of emergency as such, even without knowing whether or not it should apply. This additional month compared to what you are asking for – I do not go back to the amendments which propose to stop everything in mid-July – it is therefore a safety net. It has another important advantage: it will give economic actors visibility, ensuring that, if the situation so requires, they will benefit from economic support measures, partial unemployment for employees and the solidarity fund for traders.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u192	They'll get it anyway!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u193	No: traders will resume their business at the beginning of September, with a three-week perspective if the situation is not completely stabilized. This creates anxiety in economic circles; But anxiety is not good for trust and what is not good for trust is not good for growth. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] It is not a question of stripping Parliament of its prerogatives. I would like to make the following commitment to you: if the health situation so requires and if, despite all the efforts made, a new epidemic start was unfortunately justified for emergency measures to be taken beyond October, I will come back to you in September to present a draft extension. I have no difficulty in doing so, and we have already done so because this is the eighth bill we are introducing in this area. But do not deprive us of the possibility of extending measures – even very localized and transient – for a few days or weeks to avoid further epidemic outbreaks in the fall.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u194	Mr Philippe Latomb has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u195	I am sorry to say so, Mr Minister, Mr rapporteur, but you have already presented these arguments to us in committee and we have already replied that we do not understand your position. Let us take it again: as early as mid-August, you had information indicating a resumption of the epidemic in the South, which caused you to fear for the future. At the end of September, we already had figures indicating that the epidemic was going back all over the country.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u196	And even before!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u197	Right. And here you add an argument: the date of 31 October would make it possible to maintain the social and economic accompanying measures. But it doesn't have anything to do with it! Parliament may meet at any time to vote on such measures. For over a year and a half, we have demonstrated our full availability on all subjects. Considering a new bill in the fall, in an extraordinary session, does not pose any problems to us. To give the French a perspective is also to tell them that vaccination and all the efforts they have made over the past year and a half will enable them to get out of the tunnel as quickly as possible. In a spirit of responsibility, we do not propose to advance the date to 30 August because we can understand that we must measure the effects achieved, but most French people will resume work around 20 August; Parliamentarians can also meet at the beginning of September without any problems, if needed. Once again, the oppositions have all argued in favour of changing the date and each time you have asked us for national harmony on this issue of the state of emergency. All right! Consistency also implies that you take a step towards parliamentarians exercising their prerogatives, not just remaining encamped in your initial decisions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u198	We have to listen now!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u199	[[Applause on the banks of the groupDebate on those of the LR,UDI-I andLT groups]] As a pillar of the majority, the Dem Group asks you to listen to its proposal, i.e. to retain the date of 30 September 2021.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u200	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u201	Minister, I do not understand your argument. You tell us that not to extend this law until 31 October is to take the risk of not being able to take the necessary steps quickly enough to control a possible outbreak. Therefore, in your view, it is absolutely necessary for the Government to have all the possibilities of braking and restriction. Yet, as I know, you already had all these possibilities at the time of the epidemic recovery last year, and that is not to say that we avoided this second wave, to the point that we ended up restoring the state of emergency to allow a new containment – even lighter than that of March 2020. Clearly, we were in exactly the same situation as today. It is not the fact that Members are debating that will lead to an epidemic recovery! It is simply the inevitable relaxation in the summer and the presence of variants that have meant that the measures have not been as effective as we could all have hoped. As for the economic and social argument, forgive me for reminding you that the law of finance will have to be adapted anyway; Parliament will necessarily have to take a decision on budgetary matters as well. So the subject is not here. As Mr Latomb has just said, you must show some flexibility and openness in order for national harmony to exist.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u202	Mr Philippe Gosselin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u203	I, too, repeat what Mr Latombe has said, which I find courageous on the part of a well-known, active and hard-working member of the majority, who is not suspected of serving the soup to the oppositions but who is right in his boots, and that is to his credit. When an important pillar of the majority such as the Dem group, when some of the members of the majority group, such as Sacha Houlié and others, ask the same questions as the opposition, we must doubtless question ourselves. We're not right on our own, minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u204	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u205	Giving assurances in favour of national harmony also means accepting contradiction, or even accepting to take a few steps. No one here is asking you anything else – the deletion amendments that we defended earlier were only meant to alert you, in vain. Unless he's completely stupid or refuses to be a government party, who can claim that he wants to prevent the government from working? No one! Trust Parliament. Give visibility to our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u206	That's the point! That's what we're proposing!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u207	None of those who oppose this text want the aid to stop, you know that very well. We agree to give visibility to businesses, to tourism players and to our citizens, but we must also give visibility to Parliament in order to do its job.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u208	It is precisely for this purpose that we prefer October 31st!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u209	Mr Nicolas Dupont-Aignan has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u210	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] Mr Minister, if I have understood your argument, which I have listened carefully to, it is necessary, in order to guarantee predictability to economic actors and to prevent a possible recurrence of the epidemic, to suspend the rights of Parliament forever. It's endless! In two or three months, you will be able to invoke a new risk for action to be taken in a particular department. It will never stop: you always serve us the same speech.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u211	Fantasy!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u212	[[Protests on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Your own majority is beginning to doubt – it is proof that you are using the health crisis to make Parliament disappear and take away its role as a counter-power.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u213	Fantasy!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u214	This is the reality since March 2020 – soon a year and a half!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u215	[[Smile]] Stop imitating Nicolas Dupont-Aignan!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u216	There is no other democracy in which this happens.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u217	Cartoon!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u218	It is not a caricature, it is the reality: you suspend Parliament's rights and the majority accommodate it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u219	How sad to hear things like that!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u220	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u221	One thing is certain: those of us, in the opposition of the left and the opposition of the right, who have made the balance of powers the central question of the prolongation of the state of health emergency, have not been mistaken. Stop, Minister, considering that in democracy Parliament is optional. Parliament is not an embarrassment; It can even make you smarter and help you make better decisions over the course of the debates. I do not understand the argument that on 30 September, you could not take the necessary emergency measures – a fortiori measures that you would have anticipated a few weeks earlier, as you yourself said – because Parliament should meet. Are you aware of the terrible message you send to the French when you make such an argument? You accredit the idea that, in order to decide on the Government's policy, ballot boxes and universal suffrage are of no use; the election of deputies is useless. That's the message you're sending!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u222	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u223	We ask you – obviously many of us, on a wide range of benches, to do so – to accept the amendment setting the date for exit on 30 September. To me, it's a minimum. I have still not understood, in your lengthy explanation, the reason for the Government's opposition.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u224	Mr Bertrand Pancher has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u225	France is one of the few democracies to have transferred so many powers to the executive for the management of the health crisis – let us have the objectivity to recognize it. We do not, of course, question the decisions taken by the executive branch: at one point, we have to take them. On the other hand, we question the choice not to submit them systematically to Parliament.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u226	We've been voting all the time!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u227	We are already suffering from the insufficient decentralization of power, particularly in terms of health: the Government is constantly sitting on the advice of the local authorities. It does not seem absurd to me, therefore, to ask for a very rapid return to Parliament to discuss the matter again. I would also like to thank the Dem Group for opening the debate. The more complete the consultation with Parliament, the better the decisions taken. Why hesitate to shorten the deadlines? I would like to draw the attention of our colleagues to the need to systematically strengthen the role of Parliament, a role that we would play by imposing a tight schedule in a bill that is ultimately just the extension of the state of health emergency act.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u228	Mr Guillaume Gouffier-Cha has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u229	I come back to the amendments: the expiry date of the regime – 31 October or 30 September. Philippe Gosselin reminded him at the moment, the choice of a date always sparks debate. October 31st is the right date. We would make a mistake by preferring to him on September 30th. We need to hear the minister's comments on the reasons that led to such a choice. The date was defined taking into account the feedback from last summer – if a text were to be presented in the autumn, it would be useful to have data on the re-entry – the importance of giving visibility to the French as well as to the economic sectors, but also the rise of the vaccination campaign. The date of 31 October therefore seems to us to be relevant and proportionate. To hear them, some seem to want a new bill in the fall. For my part, I hope that this text is the last one that we will have to examine in the light of the health situation. We will do everything we can to achieve this. As for the democratic question, Mr Dupont-Aignan, Mr Coquerel, Mr Pancher, this is the eighth time that we have debated this subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u230	So what?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u231	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Of course, there is a majority, opposition, and different views, but we are in a democratic state. There is evidence that the debate is taking place today and will continue as long as the crisis demands it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u232	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u233	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u234	Minister, you are dealing here with parliamentarians who have been working on this issue for a long time. We have made reasonable and responsible proposals. The refusal to trust Parliament, for once, creates greater insecurity and increased mistrust of Parliament, while citizens say it is experiencing difficult times. Our colleague Philippe Latomb and others, who have participated in the work of the Committee on Laws, have put forward their questions. It would be a step forward to let Parliament vote in favour of the amendment...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u235	Let Parliament decide!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u236	... which retains the date of 30 September, which gives sufficient guarantees to work. We'll be able to review the follow-up to the re-entry. We are not Delphi's oracle, but the situation may remain difficult in the coming months. I'm not sure we're going to have to discuss a new bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u237	Let's move on to the vote!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u238	It is important that Parliament be brought before it again within the next three months.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u239	What are we doing here?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u240	Mr Olivier Becht has the floor. This would have enabled all groups to express themselves.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u241	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] I understand that we are doing politics – it's a bit of a place to do it – and that it is a tradition for opposition to hit the government, but there are things that we can't let go. To claim that Parliament is not associated with the measures on the health crisis is wrong in law as in fact. That has been said, that is the eighth text we have been considering for fourteen months. In other words, since the beginning of the crisis, we have been seized at an average of 1.7 months of texts containing the measures that are being taken.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u242	They're blank checks!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u243	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] In addition, commissions of inquiry, fact-finding missions and questions to the Government are included. No measures restricting freedom were taken without authorization in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u244	And sometimes sanctioned by the Council of State, incidentally!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u245	That is the legal and political reality of our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u246	Anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u247	The question this evening is to set the date of exit from the state of emergency. We propose October 31. It seems to me quite reasonable: if we were faced with a new wave of the epidemic, we know that the measures contained in the law would not be sufficient to deal with it. It would necessarily be necessary to return to Parliament to adopt new measures restricting freedom.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u248	So what?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u249	I invite you, ladies and gentlemen, to reject the amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u250	I put to the vote identical amendments Nos 45, 124 and 174.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u251	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 106 Number of votes cast 106 Absolute majority 54 For adoption 34 Against 72
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u252	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor to support Amendment No. 46.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u253	The aim of the amendment is to submit to the Council of State for prior notice the decrees issued by the Prime Minister in the light of the state of emergency. It has been recalled that, in the absence of Parliament's intervention, as you have decided, throughout the period of validity of such a derogatory legal regime, and in the absence of a precise definition of the concept of active circulation of the virus which we are constantly calling for, it seems necessary for the Council of State to be able to decide on the proportionality of the measures taken in the health circumstances.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u254	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u255	The decree of 29 October 2020, on which all the measures taken by the Government to deal with the epidemic of covid-19 are based, has been amended 45 times in six months. The regulatory reactivity required by the constant development of the health situation does not allow an opinion to be given in favour of your amendment. Nevertheless, the Council of State continues to play an essential role in advising the Government, not least on draft laws on the health crisis, but also as a judge of decrees adopted pursuant to the legislative provisions that we adopt.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u256	Amendment No 172 by Mrs Marine Le Pen is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u257	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 110 and 125. I call Mr Gosselin to support Amendment No. 110.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u258	The amendment concerns the restriction of the movement of our citizens. Regulating, yes, but forbidding seems to me to go far beyond reasonableness. In a time when the state of health emergency is supposed to have ended, if it is possible to ban today and tomorrow as well as yesterday, restrictive measures do not disappear and we remain in an exorbitant regime of common law.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u259	I call Mr Latombe to support Amendment No. 125.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u260	Indeed, it is the word "prohibition" that poses a problem. Defacto, it means confining. You are asking for the possibility of using braking measures, but these are not necessarily prohibition measures. We are talking to the French about leaving the state of emergency, about the possibility of gradually finding a normal life, but you reserve the right to prohibit the movement of persons and vehicles. It's not consistent. [[Applause on several benches of the Dem and LR groups]] Braking measures, yes; strict prohibition measures, no!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u261	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u262	Let us be clear: this provision on the ban on traffic is not intended to restore neither confinement nor curfew – we will have this legal debate a little later. The intention of the legislator had been explicitly stated in the review of the Act of 9 July 2020, as noted by the Constitutional Council. However, your amendment gives me the opportunity to make it clear again for this new transitional regime. The device which these amendments tend to delete is neither a new provision compared to the previous transitional regime nor a more restrictive measure than is provided for by the state of health emergency, on the contrary. The proportionality of the operative part of this paragraph was validated by the Constitutional Council last year. Finally, you will agree that it is not because this provision could be activated as early as the summer of 2020 in the event of a severe localised deterioration of the health situation that the French remained locked up in their homes throughout August. It is even the reverse that has happened. Unfavorable opinion, therefore.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u263	I call on the Secretary of State for Digital Transition and Electronic Communications to give the Government's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u264	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u265	Mr Nicolas Dupont-Aignan has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u266	These amendments are of common sense. Some members of the majority were explaining to us earlier that this is the eighth time that we have taken over the scheme, and that it is not so serious. It is precisely because it is the eighth time and since March 2020 that this is serious. By signing blank cheques permanently, you lose the habit of exercising your responsibilities as parliamentarians.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u267	[[Smile]] Stop it, Mr. Lassalle!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u268	It cannot be said that this is no big deal, since the text contains the travel ban which these amendments are intended to lift. It seems quite surreal again that a national assembly, in a democratic country like ours, accepts for the eighth time to give full powers, a blank cheque, to a government...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u269	Anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u270	...which, moreover – and I do not even address this point – has failed in many ways since it was given these full powers. Not only do we abandon our powers for the eighth time, but we cannot say that the result was up to hope. For the members of the majority, it is even worse, because they are the ones who deprive themselves even more of the control they should exercise over their government. In any event, this is a very serious moment for Parliament; At least this amendment would avoid fatal prohibitions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u271	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u272	I do not understand how the Government may not accept this amendment. Earlier, Minister, you kindly presented this legislation to us as a transitional law, a gradual exit from the situation in which we are in. If that is the case, why would we need to take action that you considered necessary a year ago? Otherwise, it is not a law of exit from the crisis that we are experiencing, but an extension or adaptation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u273	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u274	Either, then, your words are true – why, then, is it not enough to regulate, and why should there be coercive measures such as these prohibitions? Either what you say is false, and we are actually in a transitional moment between a state of emergency or emergency and a future state of emergency.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u275	Amendment No 123 by Mr Cyrille Isaac-Sibille is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u276	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor to support Amendment No. 85.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u277	This amendment by our colleague Philippe Dunoyer tends to include, in order to constitute the health pass, the possibility of a serological test allowing the detection of antibodies. This leads me to ask again the question that I have already asked on two occasions, and to which I would very much like to get some answers from the minister. It is envisaged that a certificate may be included in the package of health pass options attesting that the person concerned has been contaminated, and that it is therefore naturally, and not because of the vaccine, that he or she has developed antibodies to combat the disease. Could you inform us about the state of the research being carried out by European and national health authorities in this field? But I am not lucky: every time I ask this question, the minister comes out of the Chamber! So I guess I'll have to ask the question a fourth time earlier.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u278	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u279	I am asking for this amendment to be withdrawn because it is satisfied. It is well anticipated that it will be possible to submit a document attesting to recovery following covid-19 contamination. With regard to the question that you raise, the High Health Authority recommends that, in the case of persons for whom the nasopharyngeal withdrawal is difficult or impossible for medical reasons or because of their personal situation, health professionals adapt the PCR test and perform it by oropharynge or salivary sampling. Unfavorable opinion, therefore.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u280	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u281	Mr President, your amendment is satisfactory because the text already provides for the possibility of presenting a document certifying the re-establishment of the person concerned: either a positive test – this is the formula which, at this stage, has been adopted at European level and which we consider at French level – or, if necessary, if confirmed by the health authorities, a serological test. The Scientific Council has given a very clear opinion on the issue: to date, it does not recommend the use of serological tests to validate a person's recovery, and this is also the direction that the discussion is taking at European level. This could obviously change depending on the opinion of the scientific authorities, but for the time being we will opt for a positive test, considering that it is sufficient, after a period of two weeks, to confirm the immunity of the person concerned. The question of whether this immunity is acquired for the current period of two weeks to two months or two weeks to six months is under discussion and we are in the process of digging it with the Scientific Council but, for the moment, the scientific authorities are asking not to use serological tests. If the use of these tests were to be validated in the future, the intended wording will allow us to add them to the device. The aim we are looking for is not to close the door to serological tests, but to use them only when the French and European scientific authorities validate them. Since your amendment is satisfied, I ask you to withdraw it, failing which the Government's opinion will be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u282	Mrs Martine Wonner has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u283	I am quite surprised by this answer because, when you mention any document that would justify a recovery, it is understood that this could apply to a simple medical certificate: perhaps you are telling us, Secretary State, that we are finally going to be able to trust the doctors! Who says recovery means returning to a completely normal clinical examination. A simple medical certificate from a general practitioner certifying that the person has been restored would therefore be sufficient to meet these obligations – at least that is the meaning of your answer, and we can satisfy ourselves. Turning to the issue of deadlines, it would have been quite satisfactory if the state of emergency could end on 30 September if you had self-confidence in your own vaccination strategy. But we realize that not only are we now vaccinating blindly, without checking the serological status of the people concerned, which is still a world first, and that we continue to vaccinate during an epidemic, which is also quite surprising, but you also let the French hear that you do not trust your own strategy, otherwise you could propose to set the end of September 30.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u284	Mr Nicolas Dupont-Aignan has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u285	While I understand the reply of the Secretary of State, the Government has not really chosen and is still dependent on European negotiations. In this case, therefore, it can be seen that, from the outset, the Government has been on the trail of the European Union and that its positions have changed as the negotiations have begun. I would like the Government to give us the exact position of France and to tell us what position it stands for in Brussels, instead of telling us that we will see according to the negotiations. A country like France should know what it wants.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u286	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u287	Mr Secretary-General, I must admit that I have had difficulty following your explanation because, if I understand correctly, you say that a positive test, attesting to the recovery of the person concerned and the presence of antibodies against covid-19, can be taken into account in the context of the health pass, but that for the serological test, on the other hand, it is not known and we are waiting to confirm the results of the scientific debate to know whether the antibodies produced as a result of the disease protect more than two months, possibly up to six months, and that, as a result, serological tests are not included to date in the device. I would point out, however, that for those who are currently undergoing serological tests that are positive, i.e. that show the presence of antibodies intended for the control of covid-19, the result of these tests no longer shows the distinction between antibodies from vaccination or disease.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u288	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u289	Yes, that's true, dear colleague. I can attest it. I will bring you the certificate of a person who obtained a positive result because she had contracted the disease, not because she had been vaccinated. However, it is clear that the cause is the contraction of the disease or vaccination. So there is a problem here.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u290	Mr Jean-François Eliaou has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u291	Notwithstanding the will of anonymity of our colleague Brindeau, I will show you the results of my post-vaccination serological tests: depending on the test, we know perfectly well whether the antibodies target the wild virus or the vaccine protein. It's either one or the other. It is a very effective and useful tool for monitoring the effectiveness of vaccination. I'll show you the picture later, and you'll see.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u292	The test may make a difference, but the certificate doesn't do it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u293	I have before me four amendments, Nos 195, 70, 105 and 106, which can be discussed jointly. Mr Stéphane Peu, in support of Amendment No. 195, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u294	We are not opposed to the health pass, in particular to enter and leave the national territory, but by these amendments we want to make it clear that it does not seem reasonable, at this time, to include the concept of vaccine in this scheme. Indeed, vaccination coverage is still relatively low in our country and we do not have sufficient visibility as to its extension. We believe it is necessary to remove this criterion from the health pass.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u295	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor to support Amendment No. 70.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u296	In a spirit similar to that of Mr Peu's amendment, he pointed out that, while vaccination was one of several options chosen in the context of the health pass, it was necessary for the whole population to have access to the vaccine. We want all our citizens, if possible, and in any case most of them, to be vaccinated in order to be able to benefit from the measures to open restaurants and other places welcoming the public. In other words, we must now allow everyone to be vaccinated, without any condition of age or co-morbidity. Our vaccination strategy must evolve in this direction, it is obvious. On the other hand, without entering into a debate with Mr Eliaou, I maintain my remarks: while the test obviously makes it possible to distinguish between viral immunity and vaccine immunity, the certificate issued does not mention it. It is also specified that the immunity detected was acquired as a result of vaccination or in a natural way by contraction of the disease, without further precision. This will therefore be a problem if vaccination is integrated into the health pass.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u297	I call Mr Gosselin to support Amendment No. 105.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u298	The health pass raises important questions that cannot be evacuated from one side, but that is not the subject of the amendment. However, we may be concerned about the way in which he arrived at the debate: it is the result of the adoption of an amendment by the Government which was therefore not submitted to the opinion of the Council of State or to the opinion of the CNIL – the National Commission on Informatics and Freedoms – whose opinion will only be delivered on Wednesday, so the day after the vote on the text, which will probably take place tonight or tomorrow. However, it is somewhat unfortunate that these two major authorities have not been able to give an opinion on such a subject. In comparison, I would like to inform you about what is happening in other countries: the Italian supervisory authority has issued a negative opinion with conditions for the introduction of a health pass, and the Dutch supervisory authority, equivalent to the CNIL, has issued a very detailed opinion. This shows – and we must remember it with force – that the subject is not as simple as they are trying to sell it to us. Also, at this stage, including vaccination raises important questions. We will be told that it will always be possible to provide the result of a test, that it will be sufficient. Except that it is not certain that the test centres located near the large gatherings, fairs, fairs, will not be saturated. We are also told that the health pass will not be necessary for essential activities, but what activities are essential? What is essential for one is not necessarily essential for the other! For example, we will be prevented from visiting certain parks or participating in activities that will be considered non-essential, but where there may be fewer people than supermarkets that will bring together more than 1,000 people. It's a complicated logic to say the least! Moreover, as long as vaccination is not widespread, we find it difficult, if not impossible, to include it in the criteria for obtaining the certificate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u299	Mr Alain Ramadier has the floor to support Amendment No. 106.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u300	This is an amendment to be withdrawn from Amendment No 105 by my colleague Gosselin. The arguments justifying this are the same.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u301	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u302	It is true that we are looking for as many people as possible to be vaccinated,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u303	And that's very good!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u304	... but there will always be people who are not, because they have not had time to get vaccinated, they cannot for medical reasons, or they simply do not want to. This is why it will always be possible to present the negative result of a PCR test, and not just proof of vaccination. It is therefore not fair to condition the entry into force of the device to the access of the entire population to the vaccine. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u305	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u306	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u307	Mr Philippe Gosselin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u308	I would have liked to have some insight because you do not seem embarrassed by the fact that neither the CNIL nor the Council of State were able to pronounce itself, which I find, I repeat, quite unfortunate. Since 1978, we have had a supervisory authority in charge of information technology and freedoms, the CNIL, whose powers were strengthened in 2004, and it is ignored! We have a Council of State, created by Napoleon, and we pass it under silence, in the middle of the Napoleonic bicentenary! It's all right, move around, there's nothing to see! On the other hand, you say, Mr rapporteur, that there will always be people who will not be vaccinated: of course, but today, some of those who want to be vaccinated cannot. I am not making a negative judgment on a possible miscarriage of the campaign, but the fact is that today, those who want to be vaccinated cannot yet, and this may take some time. We therefore hope that those who have not been able to be vaccinated will not be obliged to present a certificate of vaccination if self-tests or PCR tests are missing, because of the congestion at the entrance of certain festivals, for example, or if their validity date is problematic. Again, it is a matter of consistency: we will allow people to go shopping – and that's very good – to go to supermarkets and DIY shops, where they will be more than 1000, and prevent others from attending concerts, visiting zoological parks or activity centres. The aim of our amendments is therefore to highlight an inconsistency that is still unresolved.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u309	Mr Nicolas Dupont-Aignan has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u310	These amendments are welcome. In truth, Mr. Secretary of State, here is the substance of the problem: the health pass has been introduced into our debates while the CNIL, which is still the authority supposed to defend our freedoms, has not been consulted on the subject – nor has the Council of State, moreover. This is a very serious precedent. The introduction of a health pass means that access to certain events will be subject to digital tracing: this is the reality. You put your finger in a terrible gear, because the device will be an excessively complex gas plant: what time frame do you consider relevant to vaccination? How long are we covered by the vaccines? What vaccine for which variant? How are you going to handle this case? And, for those who have had the covid, how will serological tests be insured and made available? When we see the decision of the Italian Commission and the reservations expressed by the Netherlands, we think that this case is a great DIY in which you rush, without even the CNIL having deliberated on the practical modalities of the health pass – although it would have been very useful.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u311	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u312	Mr Gosselin, you say that there are inconsistencies, but I find that there is a form of inconsistency in your argument itself. There may be a lack of tests near the festivals, you say, but I would remind you that the sanitary pass may be the result of a PCR test or that of an antigenic test. In other words, even if you don't plan to get tested in advance, you can always go to a pharmacy and buy an antigenic test. That's why excluding vaccination makes no sense – afortiori if you think we're going to lack tests to allow access to festivals, since those who will be vaccinated will not need to perform a PCR test. Including vaccination in the health pass was a rather pressing demand from our ultramarine compatriots, because many of them are already vaccinated, but they still have to submit a negative PCR test to come to Hexagon. They tell us that it doesn't make sense, since they've been vaccinated. Even if the zero risk does not exist, their contagiosity has diminished, and they therefore ask that they be avoided a small nasal pleasure – if you allow me the expression – made superfetatory by vaccination. I come to the question of whether the health pass is intended to allow people to enter a particular place by means of a positive serological test or on the basis of another health data: your legal basis, Mr. Dupont-Aignan, seems unstable and you seem to misunderstand the law. It is the Council of State that is concerned, not the CNIL that has nothing to do with this because it deals with the processing of computer data and freedoms. It could decide on the presence of a reader, for example, but presenting a QR code does not result in any new processing of computer data – processing, which continues, is carried out by the SI-DEP databases – population screening information system – and SI-Vaccination. With regard to the Council of State, I recall that a political debate took place on the draft law submitted by the Government in December, which gave the State the opportunity to limit access to rallies. However, the State Council had found nothing to disagree with, although the provisions were much more binding at the time. It can therefore be considered that he had given his opinion on access to certain places as early as the December text. As for CNIL, it must decide not on the conditions of access – this is a prerogative of the Council of State – but on the computer processing of the data carried out by the reader. However, it must simply display a green or red light, which seems to me to be a rather limited option for Parliament to pronounce itself directly.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u313	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u314	In any case, we must not be mistaken on the legal basis, Mr Dupont-Aignan.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u315	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u316	I call Mr Latombe to support Amendment No. 126.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u317	He proposed that the text should refer to a "certificate of recovery", since it was the wording contained in the draft European regulation. Indeed, we believe that we must avoid overtransposing the provisions of the European Union and stick to the definition it proposes, that of the certificate of restoration. This also allows – and it makes sense – to follow all the recommendations of the Union regarding the tests that can be used, the deadlines, etc. This would show that today France adheres to the European rules as they are intended and does not seek to do more in this area, so that the whole of the Union can move forward in the same way, which is very important, especially in the context of the movements of people that may take place this summer. Indeed, we are counting on foreigners to revive tourism in France, and the adoption of a different definition of other countries, which would have adopted that of the European Union, could clearly pose a problem for tourists coming to our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u318	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u319	If the committee has rejected the amendment, on a personal basis, I am in favour of this provision, which I believe is timely and likely to strengthen the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u320	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u321	Wisdom.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u322	Mrs Isabelle Florennes has the floor to support Amendment No. 132.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u323	This amendment, which I am presenting with my colleagues Cyrille Isaac-Sibille and Philippe Berta, aims to clarify the concept of "recovery". Indeed, as the State Council, which stressed in its opinion, we are questioning this concept. The amendment aims to align itself with the drafting of the draft European regulation to create a digital green certificate, specifying that the production of a result in a serological test does not preclude medical confidentiality, since the production of antibodies may be secondary to contamination or vaccination.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u324	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u325	If the concept of "recovery" is indeed to be subject to necessary scientific deepenings and useful harmonisation at European level, the Council of State has validated the wording proposed in the draft law – as you recalled. Nevertheless, the proposal you are making refers to the result of a positive virological test, which would have the effect of allowing a sick and contagious person to travel. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u326	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-10-O1268.u327	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one hours: Further to the discussion of the draft law on the management of the exit from health crisis. The meeting is adjourned.
