ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u1	The next item is the continuation of the discussion of the draft law on differentiation, decentralization, deconcentration and various measures to simplify local public action (No. 4406, 4721).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u2	This afternoon, the Assembly continued its discussion of the articles of the bill, ending with section 31.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u3	On Rule 31, the floor is for Mrs Justine Benin.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u4	Article 31, on the governance of regional health agencies (RHAs), has been the subject of developments since the start of the parliamentary shuttle. Our group welcomes this, but considers it necessary to go further. To this end, my colleague Philippe Vigier will have the opportunity to defend certain amendments. The ones I will defend for my part relate more specifically to overseas countries, in particular Guadeloupe, Saint-Martin and Saint-Barthélemy. They aim to make this health agency, which encompasses three territories with very different institutions, operations and specificities, more representative of the populations of the territories and their care needs. The amendments tabled by the Group of the Party of European Socialists to Article 31 tend to address issues of efficiency and effectiveness of the care route in the three territories. It is imperative to improve the governance of this health agency, as for several years, especially since the crisis of covid, the flaws in the care pathways have worsened, putting in great professional suffering the caregivers and health personnel, as well as the patients. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I would like you to pay particular attention to our proposals.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u5	Mrs Vainqueur-Christophe has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u6	I wanted to speak on this article to talk about health democracy. The health crisis has indeed revealed for our ultramarine territories, far from Hexagon, the importance of local elected officials in the governance of health policies, especially in the deployment of protective measures for the populations. Yet, despite our many warnings, it still seems too often – I speak especially for Guadeloupe – that the dialogue between the elected representatives and the ARS remains severely degraded. In the face of an unprecedented weakening of the health care supply, the sometimes overly accommodative inertia of the management of the RSA further destabilizes the local health system. The successive blows to the Hospital Social Works Management Committee (CGOS), the Public Interest Group - Public Health Networks and Actions in Guadeloupe, Saint-Martin and Saint-Barthélemy (GIP-RASPEG), cyclotron and the French Blood Establishment illustrate the cascading effects of the problems of local governance in the provision of care. In these times of crisis and while the new university hospital centre (CHU) in Guadeloupe is still in reconstruction, it seems to me fundamental to stop these dysfunctions and to restore confidence. Article 31 transforms the composition and missions of the RSAs with the aim of giving greater prominence to local elected officials. This is of course a good development, but we believe that we need to go further in the overseas departments. That will be the meaning of all the amendments that I will be defending with my ultramarine colleagues.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u7	Mrs Véronique Hammerer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u8	We are about to review Article 31, which amends the governance of SRAs in order to strengthen the weight of elected officials and expand the tasks of the Supervisory Board, the future Board of Directors. This article represents an important step towards improving the functioning of our health care system in the territories, which currently do not have sufficient capacity to influence the Agency's policies. As part of a vision of decentralization, but also simplification, we must strive to foster the approach of trusting communities. In the Committee on Social Affairs, we decided to give the Board of Directors a new role as a proposal to reduce the situation of medical desertification. The discussions we are going to discuss will also allow us to strengthen the information of this council during a state of health emergency and to change the nature of its opinions on two key documents, the Regional Health Project (RHP) and the Regional Health Plan (RHS). That is why we are changing the name of this council, which will be strengthened in its missions as a board of directors. Its new skills will enable it to ensure consistent direction and comprehensive assessment, while preserving the agility of the action of the RHAs, who know best the health infrastructure and the needs of the territories. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Strengthening the place of elected representatives is the other major issue in this article. On this point, we have strengthened the original text by adding a fourth vice-president from the representatives of local and regional authorities to the three vice-presidents originally planned. We can only rejoice at the increase in the weight of elected officials in the RSAs.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u9	I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support Amendment No. 1262.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u10	This amendment by the Les Républicains Group, the result of an important work carried out by our colleague Jean-Carles Grelier, intends to give substance to the desire to give a more strategic role to the supervisory board of the ARS, as reflected in its new name as the board of directors. However, a name change is not enough, so we have a proposal for you, minister. Building on the commitment of the Sécur de la santé, the bill is intended to strengthen the place of local elected representatives in the governance of RHAs. However, it is currently limited to three vice-presidents, without specifying the prerogatives attached to them. That is why this amendment proposes a real reform of the governance of SRAs by territorializing it. In response to an objective of transparency and cross-cuttingity, it changes the composition of the board of directors, which will include a college of regional and departmental elected officials, a college of health and medical-social institutions and services, a college of staff, a college of patients and users, and a college of health professionals – because it is all together that we must succeed in rethinking health policy in the territories. ARS remains a state-owned institution responsible for implementing the national health policy at the regional level. Therefore, the principle proposed by the senators of a co-chair by the regional prefect and the regional president, while taking into account the need for territorialization of health policies, appears to be more in line with the status of these agencies and the framework for the sharing of responsibilities between the state and the local and regional authorities in the field of health – and we had the debate on education this afternoon. This proposal was already made by the report of the National Assembly's Social Security Assessment and Monitoring Mission (MECSS) adopted on 16 June 2021 by the Social Affairs Committee. The Board of Directors shall have general jurisdiction under ordinary law to settle the affairs of the Agency through its deliberations. By integrating the various stakeholders into the definition of regional health projects and the functioning of the Agency, this new organisation carries the ambition of greater health democracy and brings regional health agencies closer to the territories and their inhabitants. The amendment also proposes that the regional health project be formally approved by the Council. Indeed, this plan is the strategic document reflecting the policy directions of health policy at the regional level over a period of five to ten years. Currently adopted by the Director General of the SRA, it is submitted to the Supervisory Board for its opinion, however this opinion has only an advisory scope – this has to change. It opens up the possibility for the Council to deal with any matter falling within the scope of the Agency's competence. This proposal, made in the 2014 Senate MECSS report on RHAs, was adopted by the Senate in 2019, when the bill on the organization and transformation of the health care system was considered. It also provides for a real regional assessment of policies through the increased use of Regional Health and Autonomy Conferences (RCHAs) – a major challenge that we will face at a later stage, as the review of a "large age and autonomy" bill has been postponed. Finally, it aims to bring the departmental delegations of the ARS closer to the local authorities and to develop health democracy in the territories by introducing territorial consultation with the associations of elected representatives.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u11	Mr Didier Martin, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Social Affairs, gave the opinion of the committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u12	When dealing with the amendments on this important article, Article 31, I will give a little more detailed explanation than those that will follow. Your amendment, Mr Bazin, makes a broad rewrite of the provisions relating to the composition and tasks of the future Board of Directors of the RSAs. I am unfavourable for three reasons. First, you are significantly changing the organization of colleges and removing representatives of the state and social security agencies, which I find impossible to envisage. How can we argue that the presence of the State is not necessary in a public institution of the State of an administrative nature? You make room for regional and departmental elected officials, but you exclude communal elected officials without knowing what justifies this choice. Secondly, you re-establish the principle of co-chairing the Council by the Regional Prefect and the Chairman of the Regional Council, which is not desirable, as I will have the opportunity to explain when I consider a forthcoming amendment. You are going back to the principle of appointing three Vice-Presidents from among the representatives of local and regional authorities, which I do not think is a good thing either. Secondly, you argue that the council approves the regional health project, which the Social Affairs Committee considered inappropriate on the grounds that the task of arresting the PRS could only be carried out by the Director General of the RSA, given the prerogatives vested in him by law. Thirdly, you introduce into the provisions currently provided for in the regulatory part of the Public Health Code rules on the periodicity of council meetings, for example, which has the effect of blurring the distinction between what is covered by the law and what is covered by the regulation. For all these reasons, I express an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u13	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor to give the Government's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u14	Giving a decision-making agency a co-chair is never a good idea, because it slows down and makes decisions that need to be taken in an emergency – they are not rare in the health crisis we are going through. This is not because people do not agree, but the health policy in crisis management has shown that it is rather of a regal nature. This specificity is also an asset of France compared to decentralised countries, such as Germany or Spain, which sometimes have to overcome very strong differences before taking a decision. It took Mrs Merkel, who was still a chancellor at the time, ten days before she could bring together the Presidents of the German Länder to take measures to curb the wave of deltas that was rising in a worrying way. I can assure you that, for the past two years, no one has envied the decentralized countries of this particular health policy. Then, even if it is decided that an elected official should be given the co-chair – you have understood that I am very unfavourable – why choose the level of the region, since it is not a regional competence? The departments have competence in EHPAD and medico-social matters, but they do not have competence in health matters. Public health policies are rather decided at the level of cities, metropolises or intercommunalities, but the region has no specific role to play in making health policy decisions. What Jacqueline Gourault is wearing with this 3DS law is the strengthening of the departmental component of the ARS to increase proximity, to be at the heart of the territories to decline health and public health policies by being more in contact with local elected officials. This strengthening, we anticipate first of all at the beginning of the mandate by giving functional jobs to the departmental directors of the ARS; Then, by mobilizing more resources to recruit even more caped departmental directors and to strengthen the attractiveness of these very difficult professions. Believe me, I've met almost all of them in the territories, and every time, the national elected official also present – MP or senator – hastened to make sure that he has a good director! Since we are dealing only with good directors, why should we consider disposing of them from part of their duties or placing them under the control of prefects who do not wish to have to deal with health matters other than what the law already provides? Let's thank the ARS for their commitment! These are all reasons to give you an unfavorable opinion. In addition to the legal reasons rightly mentioned by the rapporteur, which relate to the particular wording of this amendment, you will have understood that, whatever its wording, its very philosophy runs counter to what we want to do, that is to say, to strengthen the departmental level, to strengthen proximity, to strengthen the capacity to act closer to the territories for the health of our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u15	Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u16	You are right, Minister, to say that the regional level is not necessarily relevant to health. If there has been this parallel between the regions and the RHAs, whose jurisdiction is regional – perhaps this is the problem – it is that the decision-making level is the director of RHA and not the territorial delegates of RHAs. In a size XXL region like mine, we will not deal with health problems in the Ardennes or in Champagne by going to find solutions in Mulhouse: we should already solve the problems of Mulhouse! In regions of this size, there is no networking or coherence. From the point of view of proximity, which may be that of the territorial hospital group (GHT), the departmental level is more relevant, especially since due to the departmental powers, cooperation is daily between the departmental council and the ARS in a number of areas. The question is the level of decision-making by the RSAs at the departmental level. Today, the power of territorial delegates is not exactly the same as that of the Directors General of SRA: this raises a real question of governance. I am no more convinced than you of the relevance of the regional level, especially in the light of what the crisis has taught us about RSAs. Dominique Bussereau...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u17	All right, Dominique Bussereau!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u18	... said that without the local authorities and their organization on the ground, the state and the SRA would have been unable to carry out the vaccination policy and the same was true for the distribution of the masks. Objectively...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u19	Do you believe that?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u20	That it is local authorities that have made it possible to decline the policy of the State? It's not me who says it, it's Dominique Bussereau. Today, with almost 18 months of hindsight, the prefects have regained control of the crisis because the directors-general of ARS were unable to provide relevant and effective solutions to the crisis. It became clear that departmental prefects were the right level of decision-making.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u21	In 18 months, I have never been able to contact the Director General of the SRA in my area, despite my repeated requests. This distance is problematic when there are problems of local governance. I do not throw a stone at him: it is very complicated to deal with health issues in such a large area, and that is why community management, with a prefect of a department that is the usual interlocutor of the communes, is preferable. I agree with you on this point, Mr rapporteur, the communal bloc is essential from the point of view of proximity and the departmental elected representatives also participate in it. It is clear that this issue of RHA governance is not resolved. Either we deconcentrate, or we decentralise, but deconcentrate at regional level, which is that of the SRAs, is insufficient – we had this debate with the Minister for Territorial Cohesion on other issues. As for decentralization, which was the promise of the governance of the SRA, the question is that of the dialogue of local elected representatives with the SRAs. I know, Minister, that you are concerned about the territories, but the dialogue is much more complicated with the SRA than with a prefect or rector – I am talking about the regional level, not the territorial delegation, which fulfils its role of animation with the means given to it. That is why I hope that we will be able to work on this point before the Joint Joint Committee (JC). This may not be enough for it to be concluded, given the differences and red lines that persist on issues such as jurisdiction in water and sanitation or local inter-municipal planning (PLUI) or wind turbines, but I hope that the governance of the ARS can be clarified by a drafting that is neither the Government nor the Senate – you have mentioned this possibility.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u22	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u23	You have mentioned other amendments, honourable Member – and that is your right. I, in turn, will be able to provide a comprehensive response to all the amendments on this subject. On the occasion of my tour of France as part of the Ségur de l'investissement, I visited the hospitals and EHPADs in your constituency. I remind you that Segur is 19 billion euros to desend, rebuild, modernise hospitals and EHPADs – I announced it last week. It's not the prefect who's here at the manoeuvring, it's the ARS. For the past seven months, I have been talking to the elected representatives through video conferencing, especially with those in the Greater East region – you were not there...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u24	I was here in the Chamber!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u25	It was not an attack – not all parliamentarians were invited. I made one with the elected representatives of the Haute-Marne two days ago: the parliamentarians, the local elected representatives, the mayors were present. What I want to tell you is that consultation has been exemplary, particularly with the Greater East region, and that it has allowed us to decline more than EUR 1 billion in investment and debt relief in just seven months of work, with a consensus of elected representatives from all political sides. The chairman of the departmental council of Haute-Marne told me that I was so satisfied with what the state put on the table and so much agreement with the work done with the ARS that he would add 20 million euros. As for the president of your region, he too has decided to put in common pot. A few years ago, it would have been unthinkable for communities to move beyond their jurisdiction to expand state support for hospitals and EHPADs. If this became possible, it was because the consultation took place under exemplary conditions. During these two years, I asked all the prefects I met about the same question: "How is it going with the ARS? "I don't have to complain, minister: at home, it's going very well, we have an excellent departmental delegate with whom we work very well. "Perfect, that's great," I continued. Do you think, Mr. Prefect, that the current duties of the delegate or director of the SRA should come back to you? Not a prefect – I say not one – answered me that he should recover them. The parliamentary committee of inquiry had asked the prefect of the prefects, the prefect Bouillon, whether he considered that if the prefects had had to deal with the health crisis, things would have gone better.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u26	The answer was in the question!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u27	His answer was: "especially not, and we are very pleased that it was the RSAs who managed it. On the other hand, the law provides that in the event of a health crisis, the link between the prefects and the managements of ARS is set in motion at the service of our fellow citizens. I have seen, honourable Member, water engineers from the ARS who have found themselves drawing up Excel tables to distribute the doses of vaccine between the vaccination centres. Do you think the prefectures would have been able to do that? The ARS is often accused of being a disembodied administrative mastodon, but it is women and men who, for the past two years, think covid constantly – at the same time as they participate in the Court of Auditors' benevolent control, who verify that everything is done properly, and that they continue to manage industrial disasters, pollution, while working with elected officials and mapping hospital needs and EHPADs as never before had been done in our country so that we could deploy the major investment plan that is Segur. You're going to say to these people: "Look, it's super nice what you're doing, and no one complains about it, neither the prefects, nor the elected, but we parliamentarians think it's more like the president of the region to handle it"? Of course, there can be very different readings of how communities have been involved in crisis management. When I called Dominique Bussereau, who is a very good person, to tell him that we needed trucks to transport the masks to EHPAD, he agreed, but from there to consider, MP, that the communities would have managed the health crisis in the territories despite the action of the ARS, it is a rewriting of history that does not even belong in the Senate. Let us be careful, because our debates are very much followed. Any system can be improved; We have also taken into account the complaints of parliamentarians and created a board of directors. It is true that so far, the place of elected officials on the ARS board of directors was very modest – you are right on this point: it was so unmotivating that the executives did not send anyone there. The boss of the region did not participate, not even, or rarely, that of the department. We have therefore introduced almost the equivalent of a blocking minority, which means that a director of ARS cannot pass his budget without the overall agreement of the elected representatives. Vice-presidents are even given to the latter. When I was a member of Parliament, I knew the name of the Director General of my SRA, although I did not see him often, while I did not know the name of the Regional Prefect. On the other hand, I knew the prefect of the department very well, but let's not confuse the prefect of the department with the director general of the ARS! If you consider that the deconcentration of the actions of the State must be reviewed in accordance with the size of the regions, we make the same observation as you: the regions are far too large, and that is why we allocate the resources of the ARS at the level of the departments, so that the departmental delegates have the resources and the staff necessary for the missions of proximity that we have assigned to them. We must not break this dynamic, which gives us the foreigner's admiration for the action they have been taking since the beginning of the health crisis.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u28	Madam President...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u29	Sorry, dear colleague, I was lost in my thoughts!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u30	You were thinking about your area, Madam President!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u31	[[Smile]] I was thinking hard about what you were saying, minister, but the place I am occupying prevents me from saying more! Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u32	We could debate it for hours because the subject is important, Mr.Minister, but I have only 20 minutes of speaking time and there are 450 amendments left to consider. Listen to you, we feel like everything's fine. It may be a question of hierarchical position that no one dares to tell you things, because for my part, I do not have the same feedback from the field and my role is to report to you malfunctions such as the lack of response of the RSA to mails or telephone calls. I am not alone in saying this: we are a number of parliamentarians, including the majority, who do not have answers from the state services, including decision-making levels. As you said, territorial delegates were often facilitators who did what they could; But it is not at their level that the decision is made, but at the level of the Directors General of ARS. I don't throw stones at them: it's the frame that is disproportionate, but we should not confuse everything either. The idea of the amendment was to translate a number of MECSS proposals, to which I know that you were very attached when you were a Member of Parliament, such as the presence of a much larger number of local elected officials and representatives of health care providers in governance. This will not prevent the State or the Director General of the SRA from being decision-makers.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u33	Mr Vigier has the floor to support Amendment No. 3286.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u34	Mr Minister, my colleague Thibault Bazin has told you out loud what many of us think very cheaply: there are a lot of difficulties with the SRAs, there is no need to hide it, and I say it very freely since they were created. It's not your fault, it's not you who created the HRAs – regional hospital agencies – that became the RSAs. I remember that at the time, they were called "health prefects": it's weird, but they had that name of prefect. Such a reorganization may seem inappropriate when we are at the heart of a pandemic, but I think it is important that we have this discussion if we are to make a difference. You have just said that there was a need for strong departmental structures: that is what I am asking for.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u35	Since the 18 months of the pandemic, three prefects and two directors of ARS have succeeded each other in my department. It works with the second one, but it didn't work with the first one at all. The prefect of the department is responsible for implementing the Government's decisions. From the moment the SRA delegate was willing to cooperate with us, things went well. As you know, when you go to the field as a minister, we don't necessarily tell you everything, when we have more direct exchanges.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u36	That's nice!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u37	So hear us when we tell you that ARS funding is allocated in total opacity! When with Jacqueline Gourault, here, you have done us the honor to come to Blois to present the investment programme for the region Centre-Val de Loire, it has also given rise to a beautiful shell about my establishment in Châteaudun... On the other hand, frankly, the vaccination campaign was a fight. I told you on the occasion of your audition: I can understand that we are going to the Moderna vaccine for lack of Pfizer vaccine, I can understand everything, except the email which announces to you at twenty-one hours thirty that everything will change the next day, without knowing how to explain it to the patients. The case occurred in my department: it was a real problem. We ask that relations between the RSAs and local elected officials become more normal. It is true that they will have improved during this quinquennium, since we are now on the hospital board of directors, which was not the case before. We can be tolerated! However, colleges within RHAs would allow them to gain efficiency. Gourault was not mistaken: the National Habitat Agency (ANAH) is attached to the Prefects, as well as the National Agency for the Cohesion of the Territories (ANCT), because there is a guarantee of effectiveness. This proposal is in no way directed against you – who, moreover, in April 2020, had to revoke the Director General of the Greater East SAR for remarks that were a little too out of step with the situation. The pandemic has revealed both flaws and strengths. It has highlighted the ability of our health care system to form the first line, which you highlight every day and which you support at arm's length: bravo! Whatever our political sensitivities, we strive to do the same; However, efficiency must be at the right time. If you agree tomorrow that, in the departments, the prefect will be the bridgehead with the departmental delegate, who will be able to make a lot more decisions, it will suit me perfectly! But the regions are too large, you know: look at New Aquitaine, Occitanie, Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes, of which you were elected, minister! How do you want to manage Figeac and Annecy simultaneously? That is why I really hope that in the name of efficiency, in the name of the fight against over-administration that has settled over the years – no one can say the opposite – and from which a growing opacity results, we can evolve. I am not asking you to do this right away: as the pandemic is still before us, we must be responsible and reasonable, as I hope I have proved by filing only an appeal amendment. On the other hand, I am telling you very seriously, it is impossible to allow the present model, which has shown its limits, which is not sufficiently democratic towards the actors supposed to influence the decisions. Finally, I will refer you to the excellent report on the subject by two of our colleagues in the MECSS. I have proposed an effective Evaluation Spring, which will allow us to know what we are doing. Your services have the social security budget, more than 500 billion euros, that is more than the nation's budget: with such means, I repeat, we must change the model of the RSA, adapt it, democratise it, make it more efficient.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u38	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u39	Mr Vigier, your commitment and knowledge in the field of health are well known. The minister has already given you a large reply: I will therefore simply point out certain points. Like Mr. Bazin, you mentioned the MECSS. In its report on SRAs, submitted to Mrs. Firmin Le Bodo and Mr. Grelier, which was registered on 16 June 2021, I note the unequivocal paragraph: "However, it appears from the hearings that the flexibility allowed by the status of a public institution was, on many occasions, an asset during the crisis. This status allows more responsiveness, more agility, more adaptation to the needs of each territory. It also makes it possible to recruit more varied profiles, a source of wealth for the State administration. The autonomy of RHAs also has the virtue of sanctuarizing health issues, which thus cannot be balanced, by the State administration, with social, economic or even political problems. » To question the dual filiation of the ARS therefore amounts to challenging a sovereign mission of the State and the joint management of the health insurance. While the territorialization of health policies is now permitted, the subjects covered by them must remain sanctified, specific and priority. Consequently, the opinion was unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u40	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u41	Same opinion. Philippe Vigier and I have had this legitimate debate for a number of years! I replied to him about the departmental component; I have also heard that this was an appeal amendment, which I thank him for, because he himself acknowledges that in times of health crisis, when everyone is day and night on the bridge, the time would be wrong to explain to those concerned that they must thoroughly review their way of working. The experience of this crisis continues in real time, resulting in proposals. Nevertheless, Mr Vigier, I fully agree with your comments on the need to strengthen the departmental level, even if there is a certain contradiction with the general desire for a disadministration of the health sector, or at least a distribution of the resources which will enable us to go, in the territories, as close as possible to the citizens. I therefore invite you, in the coming budgetary years, to remind you of our good memory, so that we may encourage this component. [[Mr Thibault Bazin protested]] As for Mr Bazin, I will not insult him by reminding him that our remarks are being listened to, but I invite him to communicate his e-mail address or telephone number to his ARS, where I am told to invite him very regularly, like all other parliamentarians in the Far East, to video conferences on the management of the health crisis, without he ever showed himself there. You were also not present during the few trips of representatives of the ARS in your beautiful territory, especially in Lunéville.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u42	I wasn't invited!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u43	That's why I believe in a coordinate problem: perhaps you could, in order to dispel this misunderstanding, contact the ARS? I've been told we'd be happy to see you there!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u44	Mr Remy Rebeyrotte has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u45	I had tabled an amendment to the effect that the Director General of an RSA should, if I may say so, be co-owned by the Prefect under his territorial delegations. I took it off. As you said, Minister, we are at the heart of the crisis; In addition, you and the Prime Minister have fortunately announced that it will give rise to a RETEX, a return of experience, at the right time. No one is questioning the management of the ARS! Some work better with regional and departmental prefects; remain the sectors where, in particular at the beginning of the crisis, they have had to deal with the lack of information on the part of another component of the state – because the SRA is still the state!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u46	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u47	These prefects have found themselves unable to inform us, to inform us, which has disturbed us somewhat; Those who have experienced this situation on the ground wonder. We therefore wish to convey the following message: it is imperative that the Directors-General consider themselves an integral part of the State, not a State in the State. I repeat, the ARS is the state! Let's add that they have to work with their prefects, so that the information is fluid, that real trust is established. The same observation applies to the relations between the Directors-General and the elected representatives: the proper flow of information within the territories is a major issue! In a number of regions, we are looking for progress in this area, which I have no doubt will take place. We cannot limit ourselves to calling the prefect when things go wrong and we must urgently take care of a situation that degenerates! Once again, there must be a common, permanent work, a relationship of trust, a unity of the State in the interests of the territories, the elected representatives and the people.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u48	Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u49	Minister, it has been 18 months since I asked for an appointment with the branch of the SRA: I have never had an answer. It has been 18 months since my letters to the same Directorate-General received any written reply. My territorial delegate received me, and the interview went very well, but there are issues on which he can't help. When representatives of the ARS came to my constituency, I was not invited; I was there on your own visit, during which the exchanges took place in all republican courtesy.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u50	Again, it must be an e-mail problem!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u51	I am participating in the video conferencing you mentioned: there are very interesting PowerPoints, at the regional level, about the method, the progress, the discharge of the debt of the institutions. All this is of great interest, I repeat, but we have no opportunity to address local situations. You yourself have been a Member of Parliament: you know that it is sometimes necessary to mention these. We have sometimes needed to develop cooperation between doctors and nurses, respite homes, on the basis of Article 51 of the Social Security Financing Act for 2018; We've been denied. I discussed this with colleagues: they told me they had the same difficulties with their SRA. I don't throw the stone at them; No matter what the past, since we are here precisely to improve things. Not everything will go through their supervisory board, which has become the board of directors. The improvement of their local relations is a real challenge, and I hope it will bring us together.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u52	Mr Philippe Vigier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u53	Mr Rebeyrotte said with a certain enthusiasm that the RSAs must cease to regard themselves as a state in the state. I tell you very freely: I have experienced two general managers of ARS. With the person who currently holds the position, everything is working very well for the moment. His predecessor had adopted the following course of action: "I communicate if I want, whenever I want; I decide as I please, whenever I want; I sometimes run my principals, I make them wait six months, nine months a decision." It's also our role to let you know what's going on!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u54	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u55	It is no longer acceptable for a director general to decide to close a maternity, a surgical service, without even informing the prefect. I hear what you're telling me, but I'll add a last example, dealing with a subject that you have perfectly and that is emerging almost everywhere in the country: medical desertification. Jacqueline Gourault is very familiar with the south of Eure-et-Loir, where, of two communes each with 2,000 inhabitants and only two kilometres away, one was considered a medical desert and the other was not, simply because the data available to the RSA were three years old. Where are we? It's not complicated to know what's going on! While these classifications have far-reaching implications for allocation of resources, incentives, triggering mechanisms, we had the greatest difficulty in getting the numbers and sources communicated to us. Minister, I will not tire of repeating that I am only looking for one thing, efficiency. It would be very good if you returned to the departmental level, where you are listened to, where you can have a precise vision. This technostructure is also felt as such by actors who do not always manifest it: as parliamentarians, we must say so.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u56	Mrs Sereine Mauborgne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u57	Let me remind you of a few figures. The directors of ARS – be they general manager or departmental delegate – are human beings like the others. They've been working from morning to evening for two years – I can testify, having spent ten weeks with my managing director of ARS. How many hundreds of elected officials do they have to meet? How many dozens of GHT managers do they have to deal with? How many prefects, how many mayors, who all want their vaccination center to promote their action to their people? How many tasks did they have to complete following, for example, the crash of the health reserve software in the first month of the crisis? Who replaced healthcare professionals in EHPAD, Mr. Vigier?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u58	Me!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u59	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Who has mobilized 250 health personnel in 24 hours to strengthen the teams in the East? These people are humans like you and me! We're big workers. The evidence, at twenty-two fifteen hours, we are still discussing amendments in this House – even though we are only about twenty, 550 of us not there. What I am telling you, Mr Vigier, is that we must also consider each other's skills in the name of humanity. For months, the directors of SROs have been carrying out missions that are not their own. They constitute stocks of oxygen or medicines for resuscitation services, deliver personal protective equipment, take care to receive requests from each other... But to the impossible, no one is bound. They deal with both prevention, day-to-day affairs and crisis management. I say thank you and congratulations!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u60	Mr Philippe Vigier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u61	Since you've quoted me twice, I'm going to be happy to answer you, dear colleague. You're not going to tell me what involvement is in managing the health crisis! Come Saturday morning, you'll see that I spend the whole day in my vaccination centre. I've spent many hours there and I don't have any lessons to learn. I am not talking, dear colleague, about what has happened in the last two years, but in previous years. You think it's perfect, it's your responsibility.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u62	I'm not saying that!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u63	[[Minister exclaims]] Forgive me, I'm speaking. What I'm saying is factual. If you don't believe me, I'll bring you proof. I repeat, minister, that this is an appeal amendment and therefore there is no issue. On the other hand, I would ask you to make a commitment to think about a reorganization once the pandemic is behind us, because we can see that there are malfunctions. You did not note my remarks earlier when I referred to the fact that you had relieved the Director General of the Great East SAR from his duties and that I pointed out that this was a strong act. Deficiencies had indeed occurred. It happens the same way that prefects are dismissed when some things don't go. [[Mrs. Justine Benin applauds]] Having the chance to be the general manager of an ARS, to be regional prefect, to represent the state implies, I believe, a certain dedication. That's how it is; We accept the charge and the augur. I absolutely do not cast reproach on those who have worked. As a caregiver myself, I have no lessons to learn. I say things very simply and when I ask for efficiency, I ask nothing else. I am not going to tell here how, in the middle of August, I had to reopen a vaccination centre in three weeks, which Brigitte Bourguignon then came to inaugurate. We mobilized to get there and reached 1,400 vaccinations a day. There is therefore no subject, dear colleague – no more than on the health reserve, an issue that I also know a little bit. Accept that we can say that some things are not going very well. If you can't say anything, as someone used to say, it's because you don't think anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u64	Mr Vigier has the floor to support Amendment No. 438.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u65	I already defended him earlier. As the minister has shown openness, may he wish to continue to do so by strengthening the responsibilities entrusted to the departmental delegates of the SRA? I hope that in this way they will no longer be suspended from the decisions of their Directors-General as long as this sometimes happens today. It is an amendment of efficiency, aimed at making RHAs more operational: for me, health is essential!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u66	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u67	You propose to include in the law, Mr. Vigier, the missions of the departmental delegations. Let me remind you that the Constitutional Council, in a decision of 19 November 2015, found that the very principle of the existence of departmental delegations of the ARS was of a regulatory nature. Personally, I believe that rigidizing the system by listing all the missions of the departmental delegations would expose us to the risk of forgetting some of them and, above all, would not allow the territorial adaptation by territory, department by department, of the missions that the regional management would consider useful to entrust to a departmental delegation. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u68	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u69	Request for withdrawal or unfavorable notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u70	Amendment No 675 by Mr Jean-Pierre Cubertafon is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u71	Mrs Stéphanie Kerbarh has the floor to support Amendment No. 489.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u72	In order to improve coordination between the various actors in the health and the medical and social sector at the departmental level, this amendment proposes that the departmental delegate of the ARS submit an annual progress report to the chairman of the departmental council, as well as the prefect of the department, presenting a report on the activity of the State services. Of course, article L. 1434-15 of the Code of Public Health provides that at least once a year, the elected representatives shall be co-ordinated on the territorial organization by the Director General or the Director of the departmental delegation of the ARS. Beyond the consultation, we propose the transmission and presentation of an activity report of the departmental delegation. This is necessary in view of the intertwining of the various medico-social policies and the desire, through this bill, to establish the department's participation in territorial health security. This amendment has received a favourable opinion from the committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u73	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u74	You propose, Mrs. Kerbarh, that the departmental delegate present an annual report on his activities to the president of the departmental council. This will encourage the exchange of information and dialogue: I therefore express a favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u75	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u76	The opinion is all the more favourable since it is already the case.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u77	I call Mr Joël Aviragnet to support Amendment No. 3093.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u78	He proposed that, in the event of a state of health emergency, the Director General of the RSA should report every 15 days to the Agency's Board of Directors. One of the lessons of the health crisis documented in the information report presented by Agnès Firmin Le Bodo and Jean-Carles Grelier lies in the perfectability of coordination between ARS, local authorities, health providers in the city and in the hospital and patients, etc. The report stresses that this coordination could be improved if a health crisis board was established at the level of each SRA, with the obligation for the Director General to report to his board of directors on his strategy and the associated resources. This collective leadership would allow better management of health crises. In this case, we propose a bimonthly frequency.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u79	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u80	I understand your concern and sharing, Mr. Aviragnet. However, I prefer Mr Rebeyrotte's forthcoming amendment No 3122 and therefore propose that you withdraw yours. We share your view on the information that the board of directors should receive in the event of a health crisis.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u81	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u82	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u83	Are you withdrawing your amendment, Mr Aviragnet?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u84	Yes, because the important thing is that the arrangement be made. Whether the amendment is Mr Rebeyrotte's or mine, it doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u85	I call Mr Rebeyrotte to support Amendment No. 3122.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u86	It provides for the RSA Board of Directors to give a reasoned opinion on the regional health organisation scheme and the regional health project. We also propose that during a state of emergency, it should meet at least once a month to keep itself informed of developments and decisions taken by the management of the SRA. In other words, this amendment aims – as you wish, Minister – to strengthen the board of directors.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u87	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u88	The information of the board of directors in the event of a health crisis seems very useful. Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u89	I have before me four identical amendments, Nos 517, 1583, 2208 and 3087. Mrs Stéphanie Kerbarh has the floor to support Amendment No. 517.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u90	I'd almost call it editorial. Its purpose is to re-establish a provision adopted at first reading in the Senate to ensure an appropriate balance in the composition of the RSA Board of Directors. Without limit of number, the members of the latter would be drawn, on an equal basis, from the four colleges: representatives of the State, members of the boards of directors of the local health insurance bodies, representatives of the territorial authorities and representatives of the users. Deleted in the Committee on Social Affairs on the grounds that it would fall rather within the regulatory area, but also in order to preserve possibilities for adjustment, this measure merely aims to ensure better representation of the various stakeholders in health policy at regional level. It also aims to increase health democracy in the territories by removing the possibility of weighting votes in the SRA supervisory councils for the benefit of state representatives. Although health policy is a competence of the State, the social and health crises which France has suffered in recent years have highlighted the dire need to recreate links at the local level. It is therefore essential to create a joint system between the State and local authorities to facilitate dialogue and consensus-building at the local level.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u91	I call Mrs Vainqueur-Christophe to support Amendment No. 1583.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u92	It provides for equal representation of the different categories of members of the boards of directors of the RSAs: representatives of the State, local health insurance bodies, local authorities and patients, the elderly or persons with disabilities.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u93	Identical Amendments Nos 2208 by Mr Max Mathiasin and 3087 by Mr Joël Aviragnet are being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u94	These identical amendments propose the inclusion in the law of the numerical composition of the various colleges of the ARS Board of Directors. The Social Affairs Committee has deleted from the text this clarification introduced by the Senate. It does not seem desirable to mention it in the law. I also take note of the Government's commitment to ensure, in the decree to be issued, a balance between the various components of the board of directors. Let the Government do the wrong thing.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u95	Amendment No 2416 by the draftsman is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u96	I have two identical amendments before me, Nos 2209 and 2710. Mrs Justine Benin has the floor to support Amendment No. 2209.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u97	It aims to create a more balanced composition of the RSA Board of Directors by assigning one third of the seats to the elected representatives of the communities or their groupings. The crisis of the Covid-19 demonstrated, once again, the importance of the role of elected officials, their knowledge of the ground and the need to benefit the RSAs from their experience. It would therefore be very useful, for the proper functioning and efficiency of the latter, to reserve a greater share for elected officials on the Board of Directors.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u98	Amendment No 2710 by Hélène Vainqueur-Christophe is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u99	I am not in favour of changing the number of members in the various board colleges. I am also not in favour of such a provision being included in the law, because the detailed rules on the composition of boards of directors and the weighting of votes fall within the scope of the Rules of Procedure. Moreover, these amendments do not say anything of the part reserved for other members of the Council. I therefore express an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u100	Mrs Stéphanie Kerbarh has the floor to support Amendment No. 537.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u101	In order to take better account of the diversity of the territories and to ensure the representation of rural territories in the governance bodies of the SRAs, this amendment aims to include in the law, by supplementing paragraph 9, that a representative of communes with less than 3500 inhabitants sits on the board of directors of the SRAs. Rural areas are particularly affected by medical desertification, which reinforces territorial inequalities in access to health. The proliferation of medical deserts affects the health of the local population, as well as the attractiveness of the territories. I can testify to what is happening in Etretat, Fécamp and many other communes. In order to avoid abandonment of care and to best adapt the provision of care to the needs of the inhabitants, it is proposed to include elected representatives of the territories on the boards of directors of the RHAs, which develop the broad policy directions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u102	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u103	Once again, I am against the inclusion of the detailed rules on the composition of future boards of directors in the legislation. On the other hand, the degree of detail you want to introduce goes beyond what is currently provided for in the regulations. Request for withdrawal or unfavorable notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u104	I have before me three identical amendments, Nos 535, 790 and 1064. Mrs Stéphanie Kerbarh has the floor to support Amendment No. 535.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u105	It is intended to supplement paragraph 9 by the following words: "including a representative of the territorial authorities and groups of communities in mountain areas within the meaning of article 3 of Act No. 85-30 of 9 January 1985 on the development and protection of mountains, appointed by the elected members of the Massif Committee provided for in article 7 of that Act. » The aim of this amendment is therefore to ensure the presence of a representative of a community or a group of mountain communities on the ARS Board of Directors, in order to ensure that the specificities of mountain areas are taken into account in drawing up the broad guidelines of the Agency's contractual policy.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u106	I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support Amendment No. 790.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u107	I am taking over from my many colleagues elected from mountain areas of sometimes very large size – and this is your case, Madam President – who encounter difficulties in promoting the specifics of the health issues of these territories, which are often quite different from those of the metropolises. Today we are discussing governance and representation on the RHA Board of Directors. I understand that in order to be effective, it must remain limited – you will defend, Minister, an amendment to delete paragraph 10. However, even if this council is restricted, it is necessary to ensure that the specificities of rural areas, but also of mountain areas – which my colleagues, Émilie Bonnivard and Annie Genevard, also support – are taken into account, because the health issues are even more complicated.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u108	Amendment No 1064 by Mr Jacques Cattin is being defended. What is the committee's opinion on these amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u109	I am convinced that it is necessary to maintain sufficient flexibility in the scheme so that the composition of the college of elected members on the board of directors can be adapted to the specificities of the territories. However, why should we mention the mountain areas and not the others, which also have their specificities? I am not in favour of this clarification being included in the law, because I do not think it appropriate to make a special fate for mountain areas. Furthermore, I would like to remind you that the detailed composition of the supervisory boards of SRAs falls within the regulatory area. Request for withdrawal.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u110	I call Mr Joël Aviragnet to support Amendment No. 3088.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u111	It aims to ensure the representation of people in poverty and insecurity, as well as those living in the medical deserts identified by the ARS, in the fourth college of its board of directors. In the rule of law, only patients, the elderly and persons with disabilities are represented in this college. However, it is the people in poverty and insecurity, as well as those living in the medical deserts, who are the furthest from the health system and suffer the most stark inequalities. Therefore, they need to be represented on the SRA Board of Directors.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u112	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u113	I would point out that the Territorial Health Councils, set up by the Directors-General of the RHAs in the territories of health democracy, organise within them the expression of users by integrating that of people in poverty and precariousness. Your proposal would be to change the balance in the future RSA Board of Directors, as it increases the relative weight of some users' representatives. I am not in favour of it and suggest that you withdraw your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u114	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u115	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u116	Mr Joël Aviragnet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u117	Thinking about it, there are now so many medical deserts that, in any case, the people who live there will be represented, as patients, on the boards of directors. I maintain my amendment, even if I think it is satisfied.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u118	You have the floor, Mr Aviragnet, to support Amendment No 3089.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u119	It is intended to include representatives of the departmental fire and rescue services (SDIS) on the board of directors of the ARS, taking into account their essential tasks.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u120	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u121	I note that SIDS are represented in the regional conferences on health and autonomy and in the departmental committees on emergency medical assistance, which ensure the quality of the distribution of emergency medical aid, the organisation of the permanence of care and its adjustment to the needs of the population. Let's stay there. Request for withdrawal; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u122	The Minister has the floor to support Amendment No. 3304.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u123	He proposed that paragraph 10 should be deleted and that the weighting of votes on the boards of directors of the SRAs should therefore be reinstated. This provision, deleted by the Senate – it's a shame! Indeed, it is essential to achieve a balanced distribution among the various colleges within the Council, as the Government had committed itself to doing.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u124	Mrs Véronique Hammerer has the floor to support Amendment No. 3224 as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u125	This amendment by the La République en marche group proposes to add to the board of directors of the ARS, with a consultative voice, a deputy and a senator elected in one of the departments of the region, appointed respectively by the President of the National Assembly and the President of the Senate. They would be given priority among the members of the Standing Committees on Social Affairs of the two Assemblies. I would point out that this amendment was drafted and strongly defended by our colleague Monique Iborra.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u126	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u127	I confirm Monique Iborra's fervent commitment to the presence of parliamentarians on the boards of directors, with an advisory voice. It had withdrawn its amendment in the Committee on Social Affairs to make it more balanced and effective. Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u128	The identical amendments No 533 corrected by Mr Bertrand Pancher, Mr Robin Reda's 1609 and Mr Joël Aviragnet's 3090 were defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u129	Amendments Nos 2417, 2418 and 2419 by the draftsman are drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u130	I call Mr Philippe Naillet to support Amendment No. 3091.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u131	It aims to ensure that the Director General of the RSA reports annually to the Board of Directors on two major issues in our health system: the evolution of the provision of care, including the means mobilized to combat medical deserts, and the use of medical interim care.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u132	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u133	Your amendment has lost its scope considerably in view of the fact that the text now provides that the Board of Directors will have to draw up an assessment of the state of medical desertification and make proposals to combat this situation. The Director General of the RSA shall report to the Supervisory Board on the implementation of the regional health policy and the management of the Agency. These elements will be made public. It is therefore not necessary to increase the number of reports to be submitted by the Director General to the Board of Directors. Request for withdrawal.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u134	Mrs Tamarelle-Verhaeghe has the floor to support Amendment No. 3435.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u135	Article 31 is an opportunity to recall how much prevention is an essential mission of the SRA, in which many communities participate, as the Minister pointed out earlier: municipalities, intercommunalities, cities, departments, of course, with the maternal and child protection services (MIP) or the support of our elders. These different actors can take advantage of prevention policy to carry out actions or projects. I recall that prevention is a pillar of our national health strategy and a political necessity that has emerged, in particular, in the wake of the health crisis – we all agree that it is necessary to be effective in this area. However, France is lagging behind: if we take the example of life expectancy, which is roughly equivalent to that of our European neighbours, we find, on the other hand, that healthy life expectancy is, in France, below the European average; In comparison with Sweden, the gap is even ten years. The margins for progress are therefore important. The Court of Auditors' report of 1 December on the management and governance of prevention, presented to the National Assembly's Evaluation and Monitoring Committee, points, in particular, to an insufficient legitimization of RSAs in terms of prevention; the difficulty of facilitating and structuring this policy, as was said earlier, by many actors – we see it for example in the field of screening; and the difficulty of working at the scale of the large regions, which requires a close association of departmental delegations. The Court of Auditors also recommends the organisation of a departmental conference on prevention policies. In the light of these various findings, it seems appropriate for the Management Board to take stock of the local epidemiological findings and of the implementation of preventive measures with all the actors concerned, as it will do in the field of medical desertification.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u136	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u137	Public health prevention is one of your favourite themes. It seems to me, however, that the Regional Conference on Health and Autonomy would be a more appropriate forum for drawing up this state of affairs. The RSA Board of Directors, which is a governance and strategy body, is not the place to carry out this work: it is certainly worth providing it with the right information, particularly in the field of prevention and epidemiological data, but it cannot itself carry out this action. Request for withdrawal.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u138	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u139	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u140	Mrs Marie Tamarelle-Verhaeghe has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u141	I maintain my amendment. The Board of Directors is already being asked to draw up an assessment of the state of medical desertification, in order to determine the actions to be taken; paradoxically, you are telling me that prevention is not within his competence. I find it difficult to understand. This is a very important issue, which deserves to be assessed at a lower level than in the region.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u142	I have before me five amendments, Nos 3471, 2844, 2711, 2744 and 2843, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 2744 and 2843 are identical. Mrs Stéphanie Kerbarh has the floor to support Amendment No. 3471.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u143	By this amendment, it is proposed to reinstate the provision adopted by the Senate, which provides for the establishment of a co-chair of the regional health agencies, exercised by the prefect and the president of the regional council. This bill was particularly expected with regard to the territorial organization of health policies, including the governance of RHAs: the latter are struggling to carry out all their very many tasks; They are frequently criticized for their remoteness from the ground and for the bureaucratic and vertical nature of their decisions. The bill should have been an opportunity to reform their governance, including by strengthening the departmental levels and creating real counter-powers exercised by elected officials. The Senate has proposed that a co-chair of the RHA Board of Directors be held by the Prefect – as it is today – and by the Chair of the Regional Council. Unfortunately, the Commission has come back to this provision; It preferred to create four vice-presidents, three of whom will be held by representatives of communities – regions, departments and municipalities. This new wording is far from satisfactory: it does not go far enough and may not lead to a real change. Therefore, we propose to re-establish the co-chairing of the RSAs as adopted by the Senate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u144	Mrs Justine Benin has the floor to support Amendment No. 2844.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u145	All the elected representatives of Guadeloupe are committed to the restoration of the text voted by the Senate. We very much hope that the Government will understand this: the difficulties we have experienced, together with the Regional Director of the Health Agency, during this long period of crisis, have revealed the need for a co-presidency of the RHAs by the Prefect and the Chairman of the Regional Council. I repeat, all the elected representatives of Guadeloupe ask for it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u146	I call Mrs Vainqueur-Christophe to support Amendment No. 2711.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u147	I understood that you were not in favour of co-chairs, Mr.Minister, but it is important to understand that the health agency of Guadeloupe, Saint-Martin and Saint-Barthélemy covers three territories with very different institutions, functions and specificities; It must therefore be the subject of an effective co-chairing.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u148	Amendment No 2744 by Hélène Vainqueur-Christophe is being defended. Mrs Justine Benin has the floor to support Amendment No. 2843.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u149	Once again, we insist that a co-chairing of the supervisory board of the health agency of Guadeloupe, Saint-Martin and Saint-Barthélemy be established by the prefect and the president of the regional council, so that the major health issues are treated, together with the director general of the agency, in a collaborative and co-constructional spirit.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u150	What is the committee's opinion on these amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u151	In general, I am not in favour of co-chairing. With regard specifically to Guadeloupe – a territory to which I address all my thoughts – I am also against a derogation regime. As a reminder, the composition of the supervisory board of its health agency falls within the regulatory field: it comprises a regional councillor from Guadeloupe appointed by the regional council, a departmental councillor from Guadeloupe, a territorial councillor from Saint-Barthélémy and a territorial councillor from Saint-Martin, as well as a mayor of communes or a president of a group of communes. The presence of local elected officials is therefore largely assured, and co-chairmanship does not seem justified. I therefore call for the amendments to be withdrawn; Otherwise, my opinion will be unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u152	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u153	Although I agree with the unfavorable opinion of the draftsman, I would like to take advantage of these amendments to sincerely thank and greet the actors of the ARS in the ultramarine territories. You mentioned the Director General of the health agency of Guadeloupe, Saint-Martin and Saint-Barthélemy: she has been doing a remarkable job since the first day, in difficult conditions, alongside a large number of elected officials, who quickly understood the value of immunizing the population and taking the necessary measures – the vaccination rate of caregivers having nothing to envy to that of the metropolis. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] [[Applause on the same benches]] I also salute Gérard Cotellon, the Director General of the CHU of Guadeloupe, who is the target of repeated and unacceptable threats. When you run a hospital and dedicate your life to caring for people and supervising health care teams; When we commit ourselves, not counting our time or energy, day and night, with the sole aim of protecting the population, it is unacceptable and heinous to be threatened, on the grounds that we are carrying out our missions with talent and conviction. I say this in the absence of the Members of the La France group, because I think so: Mr Mélenchon's speeches on this subject on a local channel, on the occasion of his visit to Guadeloupe, are truly shameful and contribute, I regret, to increasing social tensions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u154	Mrs Justine Benin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u155	I would point out that Amendment No 2843 does not propose a derogation, but an experimental co-chair. [[Mrs Maina Sage and Mr Bertrand Pancher applaud]] On the other hand, all the elected representatives of Guadeloupe unanimously and firmly condemned the violence against health workers and the Director General of CHU de la Guadeloupe, Mr Cotellon, whose office was stoned yesterday again. We are at the side of all the health workers in Guadeloupe and all of our populations. [[Mrs Maud Petit applauds]] We have been in a crisis situation for 18 months, mourning more than 600 deaths – not to mention the deaths at home – and still living in great tension, as a result of the societal crisis that has been raging for more than six months. I say this before the national representation: we are mobilized to get out of the crisis. We are also worthy elected officials, proud to belong to the archipelagic territory of Guadeloupe, although we sometimes feel we are left behind, in a tense and difficult situation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u156	I have before me four amendments, Nos 2212, 2713, 1858 and 1849, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 2212 by Max Mathiasin and 2713 by Hélène Vainqueur-Christophe are defended. Mrs Guion-Firmin has the floor in support of Amendments Nos 1858 and 1849.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u157	They concern the community of Saint-Barthélemy, which reports to the health agency of Guadeloupe, Saint-Barthélemy and Saint-Martin. The supervisory board of this agency does not at all reflect the statutory disparities of the communities it represents.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u158	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u159	By our amendments, we ask that the situation of the community of Saint-Barthélemy be taken into consideration. This aspiration is further justified by this community's particular commitment to the island's health policy: its EHPAD, the services it provides free of charge to the hospital, as well as the financial guarantee it provides to the health cooperation group (GCS), which houses a scanner, a mammograph and a coronarography table. It is therefore perfectly legitimate that the law should guarantee to the community of Saint-Barthélemy full representation on the future supervisory board of the health agency.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u160	What is the committee's opinion on these amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u161	I am against Amendments Nos 2212 and 2713. In addition, I repeat, the supervisory board of the health agency of Guadeloupe, Saint-Barthélemy and Saint-Martin provides for the presence of a regional adviser from Guadeloupe, a departmental adviser from Guadeloupe, a territorial adviser from Saint-Barthélémy and a territorial adviser from Saint-Martin, as well as a mayor of a commune or a president of a group of communes. I therefore call for the withdrawal of Amendments Nos 1858 and 1849.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u162	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u163	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u164	I have two identical amendments before me, Nos 2714 and 3287. I call Mrs Vainqueur-Christophe to support Amendment No. 2714.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u165	It aims to establish, on an experimental basis, a more balanced composition of the supervisory board of the health agency of Guadeloupe, Saint-Barthélemy and Saint-Martin, giving one third of the seats to the elected representatives of these communities or their groups. The crisis of the covid showed, once again, the importance of the role of the elected representatives, their knowledge of the field and the need to make the health agency benefit from their experience, a fortiori in Guadeloupe where the crisis has multiple consequences. That is the aim of this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u166	Amendment No 3287 by Mr Max Mathiasin is being defended. What is the committee's opinion on these amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u167	Disadvantaged, for the reasons I have already expressed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u168	Amendment No 2420 by the draftsman is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u169	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 2795 and 3296. Mrs Vainqueur-Christophe has the floor to support Amendment No. 2795 as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u170	It is intended to clarify that regional health agencies define their missions and competences, taking into account the particular characteristics and constraints of each region. It also aims to involve communities in the organization of the emergency response to health crisis situations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u171	Amendment No 3296 by Mrs Justine Benin is being defended. What is the committee's opinion on these amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u172	These important amendments raise two aspects. For the first, the term "specificities" is already sufficiently broad to avoid the need to change it. As regards the second part, I would like to make a similar observation to yours, Mrs Vainqueur-Christophe: I am not unaware that the local authorities have been insufficiently involved by the RSAs in the response to the crisis, and that this has been badly felt by the elected representatives. However, it seems to me that the direct involvement of local and regional authorities in the organisation of the response to health emergencies and in the management of crisis situations, alongside the Prefect and the Minister of Defence, goes beyond the scope of the powers entrusted to them by law. Which territorial authorities would be involved: municipalities, departments or regions? What would be their exact role? Above all, it is important to give greater prominence to the local and regional authorities within the ARS Board of Directors and to strengthen the role of the departmental delegations of the ARS, so that they are better able to interact with the elected representatives. We are proceeding with this in the bill. We have also adopted an amendment which provides that the Board of Directors, which includes local elected representatives, will be regularly informed of the decisions taken by the Director General. Moreover, since the decree of 2021, the Code of Public Health provides that the regional conference on health and autonomy is associated with the feedback and work carried out with a view to assessing the implementation of measures taken in the event of a serious health threat. I therefore invite you to withdraw your amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u173	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u174	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u175	Amendment No 2218 by Mr Max Mathiasin is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u176	Mrs Stéphanie Kerbarh has the floor to support Amendment No. 539.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u177	It aims to appoint a pilot within each RSA responsible for tick vector diseases, in order to improve the information of users, preventive measures and the path of graduated care within the territory. This amendment is the result of a proposal in Information Report No 4318, "Lyme's Disease: Improving Patient Care", published last July by the fact-finding mission led by the deputies, Jeanine Dubie, Nicole Trisse and Vincent Descoeur, within the framework of the Social Affairs Committee of the National Assembly. To disassemble the stakes around Lyme disease and patients in therapeutic wanderings, a considerable effort of information, pedagogy and communication must be made. In addition to the actors already in place – Directorate-General for Health, reference centres for tick vector diseases – the regional health agencies must take full account of this subject. Indeed, the report notes the silence and lack of commitment of the SRAs on this issue. However, it is essential for them to take up a dossier which falls within the scope of their tasks in many respects: public health problems, structuring the care chain on their territory, regulating the provision of care and preventing abuse. To this end, within each ARS, a pilot responsible for the territorial implementation of the Lyme Plan should be identified, a fortiori in those areas endemic to Lyme B correliosis. The latter will be responsible in particular for ensuring the proper implementation of the graduated care path, created for patients potentially suffering from Lyme disease. It will thus contribute to the improvement of local public action.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u178	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u179	Indeed, Lyme disease has complicated and long-term specificities and syndromes. The minister, who is also a neurologist, will be able to explain to you, if you wish and if he has the opportunity.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u180	Oh, no!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u181	Your amendment is probably satisfied with the fact that RHAs are leading the national health policy, which includes monitoring and observing the health status of the population, collective and individual prevention of diseases and pain, and the organization of health pathways. It does not seem appropriate to include a specific disease in an article whose purpose is to enumerate the general missions of the RHAs. I therefore ask that this amendment be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u182	I have before me a number of amendments, Nos 2807, 3297, 2207, 2810 corrected and 2842 corrected, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 2807 and 3297 are identical, as are Amendments Nos 2810 and 2842 as corrected. Amendment No 2807 by Hélène Vainqueur-Christophe is being defended. Mrs Justine Benin has the floor to support Amendment No. 3297.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u183	He proposed that the regional authorities concerned should be consulted by the Director-General of the Regional Health Agency in the preparation of the Agency's budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u184	Amendment No 2207 by Mr Max Mathiasin is being defended. The identical amendments No 2810 corrected by Mrs Hélène Vainqueur-Christophe and Mrs Justine Benin's corrected amendments No 2842 were defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u185	The Director General of the SRA prepares the budget and prepares it prior to the consultation of local elected officials, who give their opinion on the budget. It does not appear necessary to involve some members of the Supervisory Board, upstream, in the preparation of this budget. The debate will take place in the Management Board. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u186	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u187	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u188	I call Mr Joël Aviragnet to support Amendment No. 3092.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u189	It aims to transform the advisory opinion of the Regional Conference on Health and Autonomy on the regional health project into assent. It seems to us essential that the regional health democracy body has a voice that counts when it decides on the regional health project, a major strategic document produced and implemented by the RSA for four years. In the rule of law, this opinion is only advisory. The inclusion of irritants raised by members of the Regional Conference on Health and Autonomy, in particular the College of Users, for example on the deterioration of the provision of care, is therefore not fully guaranteed. The transformation of the opinion of the Regional Conference on Health and Autonomy on the regional health project into a assent would therefore reinforce the consideration of these irritants by the RSA.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u190	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u191	Health policy is the responsibility of the State in its legitimate mission. RHAs are the strategic tool of this regional health policy, which is the frame of reference for RHA action. The Regional Conference on Health and Autonomy is an advisory body; it shall deliver an opinion on the regional health project and shall be associated with the work of the evaluation thereof. It's a good thing, but we can't go in your direction. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u192	Mr Vigier's amendment No 3288 is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u193	Identical amendments Nos 2811 by Mrs Hélène Vainqueur-Christophe and 3298 by Mrs Justine Benin are being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u194	Colleagues, some of you are wondering if we will complete the examination of this text tonight. We have fifty minutes before the adjournment of the meeting and 357 amendments to be considered. If some want to finish tonight, we should adopt a pace consistent with this wish and be ready to sit substantially beyond midnight. Amendment No 540 by Mrs Jeanine Dubie is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u195	I call Mr Joël Aviragnet to support Amendment No. 3094.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u196	It aims to ensure that RHAs ensure consistency in the development of health homes and health centres in the territory, building on the regional health plan. Indeed, many local and regional authorities are trying to overcome the lack of health professionals by investing in such structures but taking less and less account of the coherence of their placement in the territory. This investment race, in which local and regional authorities participate, can undermine the overall coherence of the map of health homes and health centres. In view of this, in the present state of the law, the SRAs have no obligation, nor means, nor results. It is therefore necessary to integrate this issue into the regional health plan and to entrust the role of the RSA to ensure the fair and efficient distribution of health homes and health centres in the territory, especially since there are now health centres without professionals. Since there is a shortage of doctors and health professionals, there is a need to regulate these facilities.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u197	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u198	This raises a problem that can be accepted, but you seem to say that there is a form of sealing between health homes and RHAs. That does not seem right. I would like to point out that health centres must forward to the RSA a health project attesting to their coordinated exercise and that they must conclude a multi-year contract of objectives and means (CPOM) with it, prior to any payment of financial assistance. The rules are little or no the same for health homes. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u199	Amendment No 674 by Mr Jean-Pierre Cubertafon is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u200	I ask that this amendment be withdrawn. Otherwise, I'm sending an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u201	The Minister for Territorial Cohesion and Relations with Local and Regional Authorities has the floor to give the Government's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u202	I consider this amendment to be satisfactory. So I'm asking for it to be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u203	I have before me three amendments, Nos 2814, 3299 and 2214, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 2814 and 3299 are identical. I call Mrs Vainqueur-Christophe to support Amendment No. 2814.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u204	He proposed that the regional health project in Guadeloupe and Martinique should include a specific health component aimed at better understanding chlordecone exposures and their health consequences, in order to adapt preventive and protective measures, monitor the health status of the population and ensure adequate health monitoring.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u205	Mrs Justine Benin has the floor to support Amendment No. 3299.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u206	In addition to what Hélène Vainqueur-Christophe has just said, I would like to point out that it is very important that there should be a component on chlordecone impacts. Of course, there was a committee of inquiry, chaired by Serge Letchimy, whose rapporteur I was, of course, there were different "chlordecone" plans, in particular the last one, but we can see clearly, with the crisis that we are living in Guadeloupe, that, beyond the truth, the demand for truth and the recommendations made by the committee of inquiry, the people clearly want to know the consequences of exposure to chlordecone.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u207	Amendment No 2214 by Mr Max Mathiasin is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u208	Mrs Vainqueur-Christophe, Mrs Benin, you have worked extensively on these issues, particularly in the committee of inquiry. As you know, the Government has developed a strategic plan to combat chlordecone pollution in the West Indies, with several cross-cutting lines of communication, research, training and education, as well as thematic strategies – "health-environment-food", "health-work", "socio-economic". Actions have already addressed several environmental issues, including a mapping of agriculture, livestock and fisheries. All these impacts have been assessed, but we must go further, with the new plan, financed to the tune of EUR 100 million. The Government strongly intends to do so, and I take note of it. The "chlordecone" plan is the subject of synergies between the health plans of Guadeloupe and Martinique, and the various initiatives are well articulated between them. I believe that your intention is largely satisfied and I invite you to withdraw your amendments. Otherwise, I'll give you an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u209	Identical Amendments Nos 2815 by Mrs Hélène Vainqueur-Christophe and 3300 by Mrs Justine Benin are being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u210	Amendment No 3095 by Mr Joël Aviragnet is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u211	I have before me two amendments, Nos 588 and 100, introducing an additional article after Article 31a A, which may be subject to joint discussion. Amendment No 100 is the subject of a sub-amendment No 3561. Amendment No 588 by Mr Cyrille Isaac-Sibille is being defended. Mr Sylvain Templier has the floor to support Amendment No. 100.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u212	I regret that Minister Olivier Véran is no longer with us, because I would like to thank him for having cited earlier the example of the consultation which took place in Haute-Marne last week and which was conducted by the leadership of the ARS, the prefecture and all the parties concerned. Unfortunately, the system of gradation of care between the three hospitals is still very worrying, in Langres, the caregivers and the inhabitants. It is important to pay great attention to the mental health of our fellow citizens. Depression and anxiety disorders affect a significant part of the population, particularly young people and isolated or fragile people. Unfortunately, the health crisis has only increased the number of people in need of care. Amendment No 106 is therefore intended to include a mental health component in local health contracts, or CLS, which allow for territorialisation of health policies at the intersection of the projects of the RSA and the aspirations of the communities.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u213	The rapporteur has the floor to support sub-amendment No. 3561 in Amendment No. 100.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u214	It aims to ensure that the local health contract takes into account the territorial mental health project, in order to ensure consistency of local mental health planning. Subject to the adoption of this sub-amendment, I will be in favour of Amendment No 100 and, consequently, against Amendment No 588.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u215	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u216	Favourable to both amendments, but the Government preferred the drafting of Mr Templier's amendment, which had been sub-amended by the rapporteur's sub-amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u217	I call Mr Joël Aviragnet to support Amendment No. 3096.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u218	It aims to give priority to the signing of local health contracts in the medical deserts identified by the RSA. In the current state, local health contracts are not a priority and are therefore most often concluded in areas with sufficient provision of care or even over-density. However, one in ten French people lives in a medical desert. It is therefore essential that local health contracts be signed as a matter of priority in these medical deserts.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u219	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u220	I am convinced that local health contracts are of great interest and are in favour of their being created wherever necessary. However, I am not in favour of your proposal, which I believe does not agree with the spirit of the scheme. The principle is that the local authorities who wish to enter into a local health contract with the RSA, if this corresponds to an identified need and a defined project, and I believe that this principle is the right one. Furthermore, the operative part of your amendment is a petition in principle, and its normative scope therefore appears to be quite uncertain. I therefore propose that you withdraw it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u221	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u222	In substance, Mr Aviragnet, I share your concern about medical deserts, but, for reasons related to the drafting of your amendment, I rely on the wisdom of the House.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u223	Mr Aviragnet, do you maintain the amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u224	I maintain it, Madam President, because in view of the disaster of the medical deserts, all means are good and must be used to try to remedy as quickly as possible their disastrous effects and the anxiety that this creates in the population, especially at this moment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u225	Mrs Ramlati Ali has the floor to support Amendment No. 2725.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u226	The rules for the transfer, consolidation and establishment of a pharmacy office are laid down in Articles L. 5125-3 et seq. of the Public Health Code, which lay down the population quota justifying the opening of an office in the national territory. By way of derogation from ordinary law, the quota for Mayotte is 7500 inhabitants per health sector. The provisions of articles L. 5511-3 and L. 5125-3 of the Public Health Code establish two criteria for the opening of a new office: demographic conditions must be met for two years from the publication of the last census, and this first criterion must be met in eligible areas, as is the case, in particular, with the priority neighbourhoods of the city's policy. However, the combination of these two criteria is a real obstacle to the development of the compendial network in the department of Mayotte. I recall that my territory currently has only twenty-four compendia, an average density of one per 10688 inhabitants: the accounts are not good! The amendment therefore aims to reduce the threshold for Mayotte to 7000 inhabitants instead of 7500, and also to remove the conditions for zones. The aim is to correct in part the inequalities that hinder pharmaceutical development, for a better health of the Mahorese and Mahorese.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u227	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u228	This is a useful complement to the article introduced in the text by the Senate in order to facilitate the establishment of pharmacy clinics in Mayotte and to respond to the difficulties identified in this territory and community. Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u229	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u230	Favourable opinion. We have raised this issue extensively in the Senate with your colleague Thani Mohamed Soilihi, and the measure seems to me justified.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u231	Amendment No 1327 by Mrs Stéphanie Atger, introducing an additional article after Article 31a B, is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u232	I ask that this amendment be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u233	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u234	In view of the adoption of the previous amendment, I also request that it be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u235	I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support Amendment No. 1362, which sets out the additional rule after Rule 31a.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u236	Minister, I'm delighted to meet you at the bench so I can talk to you. This amendment seeks to ensure that the Regional Conference on Health and Autonomy is also consulted on investment, in a manner to be specified by decree. Given the importance of the investments to be made in the territories, it is important that this be done in consultation with the CRSA.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u237	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u238	The detailed opinions of the Regional Health and Autonomy Conference fall within the regulatory area. In this connection, I refer to Article D. 1432-32 of the Code of Public Health, which mandates it to give an opinion on the guidelines and implementation of the regional strategy for investment in the health system, as well as on the annual strategic guidelines for the use of the regional fund. I therefore ask that this amendment be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u239	I call Mr Turquois to support Amendment No. 3289. This amendment is the subject of two sub-amendments, Nos. 3576 and 3563.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u240	It is intended to enable the mayors of the commune in which the hospitals concerned are located to sit and to speak on the supervisory board, with a consultative voice, in the event of a merger or joint management of hospital establishments, in order to meet the quota of the elected members of that council. An example is sometimes better than a long speech: in Vienna, after a long process of rapprochement, the five public hospitals – one CHU, one hospital centre and three community hospitals – merged. Madam Minister, you know the department of Vienna: in the smallest communes, where these establishments are the first employers, mayors can no longer sit on the supervisory board, which is a barrier to the rapprochement of these establishments, whereas the approach is quite positive.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u241	The draftsman has the floor to support sub-amendments Nos. 3576 and 3563, which can be presented in a consolidated format.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u242	Sub-amendment No 3576 is drafting. As for sub-amendment No 3563, he clarified the cases in which the mayor of a municipality on which part of the health establishment is situated could sit, with an advisory vote, on the supervisory board of the main establishment. Subject to the adoption of these two sub-amendments, I shall deliver a favourable opinion on the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u243	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u244	I fully agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u245	Identical amendments Nos 518 by Mrs Jeanine Dubie and 3099 by Mr Joël Aviragnet to delete Article 32 are to be defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u246	I have before me two amendments, Nos 1363 and 1474, which can be discussed jointly. I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support Amendment No. 1363.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u247	This very important amendment is based on an idea put forward by Annie Genevard, who, since she chairs our meeting, cannot develop it and entrusts me with the role of spokesperson. The aim is to include in the public health code the possibility of setting up a multi-professional health home (MSP), if only one attending doctor wishes to establish his activity there. This possibility is subject to the opinion of the regional health agency responsible for the implementation of public health policies. We found on the ground that the creation of a PSM was blocked when there were not at least two doctors wishing to practice. Ideally, of course, it is always better that there are two, but in some towns or in sparsely populated areas where there is not necessarily room for two doctors – who, moreover, would not necessarily settle on their own – there is room for a doctor working with paramedics.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u248	I think you are wrong about the amendment!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u249	[[Laughs]] I thought I would support Amendment No 1263... It would be a shame if we had already passed it, because it was really great! It responds to a real expectation from the territories, which demand flexibility. We can joke about it, but that is the reality for small towns with less than 1000 inhabitants. I could thus cite the example of a commune which, with a potentially treating doctor, nurse and physiotherapist, does not meet the specifications. It would be regrettable if the amendment, which dealt with article 31 bis, had not been considered admissible. But let us not waste time and return to article 32. Amendment No 1363 seeks to clarify the conditions under which local and regional authorities may participate in the financing of investment projects in public and private health institutions, with a view to ensuring equal access to health for all. The text provides that projects supported comply with the objectives set by the regional health project. This new funding opportunity for local and regional authorities is a real opportunity to make faster improvements to the planning carried out by the SRA. The aim is therefore to foster a good articulation between deconcentration and decentralization, without falling into the controversy launched by Mr.Véran earlier, because I looked and was never invited by the ARS to Lunéville. The invitation to the videoconference to which he referred was sent on 7 December; And on the 9th, I was with you, Madam Minister, here for this 3DS text, and I preferred to do my work as a Member of Parliament. A "visio" of which you are only informed thirty-six hours before, is not very correct. Nor did I get a reply to the mail I sent to the SRA. I hope there will be improvements.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u250	[[Laughs]] Mr Bazin, I confirm to you that the unobtainable amendment No 1263 has been declared, against all expectations, inadmissible. However, you defended it and I thank you for that because it was an excellent amendment. Amendment No 1474 by Mrs Jeanine Dubie is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u251	[[Smile]] I will try not to make the wrong amendment. Mr Bazin, your proposal is largely satisfied. The opinions of the decisions of the local authorities shall be public. The CRSA provides advice on the definition of the objectives and actions of the agencies in its areas of competence. I would add that the decisions of the legislative bodies are perfectly public and that the order of 7 October 2021 has reinforced the obligation of publicity. The deliberations adopted and the reports in the light of which they were adopted are also public. As for regulatory acts and decisions which are not of a regulatory or individual nature, they will be published in electronic form in such a way as to guarantee their authenticity and to ensure that they are made available to the public on a permanent basis and free of charge. It is therefore a request for withdrawal, if not an unfavorable opinion. With regard to Amendment No 1474, the Committee on Social Affairs has reverted to the principle of limiting the participation of local and regional authorities in the financing of investments in medical equipment alone. I had indicated and said before you again that this provision introduced by the Senate seemed to go backwards of the will and practices of local and regional authorities, eager for many of them, in a perfectly legitimate way, to participate in the financing of real estate investments. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u252	I call Mr Joël Aviragnet to support Amendment No. 3086.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u253	The purpose of this amendment is to restrict the investment target of local authorities to public health institutions and private non-profit institutions, and not to for-profit health institutions. Indeed, in the current drafting of article 32, a territorial community could provide financial assistance, i.e. public money, to finance the investment of a private for-profit health facility. This provision does not seem appropriate to us as these institutions must integrate into their economic model, and hence their pricing, the investments needed to remain competitive, and public money does not have to contribute to the balancing of this economic model. The risk in the long run is that these institutions will lower their tariffs, thereby increasing competition for public and non-profit institutions, by financing an increasing share of their investments through public financial assistance. This risk must be eliminated by prohibiting the financial assistance of a territorial authority to an investment operation carried out by a lucrative health institution.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u254	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u255	I understand the spirit that inspires you, however private health institutions can fulfill outreach missions, as specified in the Public Health Code; for example, to diagnose, monitor and treat sick, injured and pregnant women and to carry out preventive and health education activities; for example, providing palliative care, where appropriate, with or without accommodation, in an outpatient or home form; participation in training, university and post-university education, health research and innovation. These facilities may be required to provide all or part of the permanence of care. Therefore, in my view, they should not be excluded from the scope of Article 32. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u256	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u257	Mr President, we are currently aware of a very interesting project in the south of the Haute-Marne department, which is a public-private project, in a medical desert region. With your amendment, this draft would no longer be possible. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u258	Mr Joël Aviragnet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u259	I heard your arguments. We are all halfway: you, because you say that some for-profit institutions are involved in missions of general interest and that I say that this is not the case for all. Perhaps we can find a compromise by saying that it is not normal for those who make profits and do not participate in a public service to receive public money. We need to find a way to lock the device.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u260	Amendment No 2422 by the draftsman is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u261	Amendment No 3097 by Mr Joël Aviragnet is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u262	Mr Cyrille Isaac-Sibille has the floor to support Amendment No. 2542.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u263	Municipalities and their groups, departments and regions can invest in healthcare facilities, but not in Lyon. It is therefore necessary to specify in the law that it can also do so.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u264	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u265	We had this discussion in the Committee on Social Affairs and, as you know, it turns out, after checking with the Government, that the amendment is satisfactory. I suggest you take it off.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u266	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u267	I confirm that Article 32 applies well to the metropolis of Lyon. The amendment is satisfied.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u268	Mr Joël Aviragnet has the floor in support of Amendments Nos 3098, 3100 and 3101, which can be put together.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u269	These are still amendments aimed at limiting the financial assistance paid to health facilities by the regions to investment projects under a jurisdiction for which the region is lead, in the first amendment, and the department and other local authorities, in the other two. I continue to say that there is a lack in this article, that there should be no opportunity for communities to fund private institutions that do not participate in a public service mission. This story will come back to you: it is not acceptable to the population, tax cannot serve private interests!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u270	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u271	Whether it is the communal, intercommunal, departmental or regional level, I have given you the arguments that lead me to give an unfavorable opinion. I would also point out that local and regional authorities can judge the appropriateness of their investments and take into account the elements that you have put forward and which I have recalled, in the missions that can be assigned to private institutions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u272	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u273	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u274	Mr Joël Aviragnet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u275	You don't answer my question: are you going to let local authorities finance private, profit-making institutions with our taxes? This is outrageous!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u276	Amendment No 2423 by the draftsman is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u277	Amendment No 541 by Mrs Jeanine Dubie is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u278	Amendment No 3104 by Mr Joël Aviragnet is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u279	I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support Amendment No. 793.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u280	This amendment, which responds to a request from the departments, is intended to supplement the general code of local and regional authorities in order to provide more specifically for the department to contribute to the prevention, monitoring and control of health hazards. I am thinking in particular of departmental laboratories. I am fortunate, in Meurthe-et-Moselle, to have a departmental laboratory, which has been asked and helped fight covid-19 in addition to the capacities of private or hospital laboratories. I think that this amendment is somewhat satisfactory, but it would be good to add an explicit mention.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u281	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u282	I don't think your fear is particularly well-founded...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u283	It's not a fear!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u284	... in view of what the departments, and in particular the departmental analysis laboratories, have done, which have played a leading role in dealing with the epidemic of covid -19. Indeed, Decree No. 2020-400 of 5 April 2020, prescribing the general measures necessary to deal with the epidemic of covid-19, has already allowed them to participate in the search for the vaccine and to perform PCR tests. However, I see no reason to strongly oppose your approach; So I'll give you a wisdom advice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u285	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u286	I give a favourable opinion because, at the same time, we have clarified the responsibilities of the departments, particularly for zoonoses.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u287	Amendment No 2426 by the draftsman is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u288	The Minister has the floor to support Amendment No. 3339.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u289	The aim is to amend the scheme introduced by the Act of 3 December 2020 laying down various provisions for adapting to European Union economic and financial law (DADU), in order to allow all local authorities to determine freely the arrangements for granting aid which they consider to be the most appropriate locally, in order to guarantee the full operationality of the scheme. According to data from the demographic atlas 2021 of the veterinary profession, there are 19530 veterinarians who practice animal medicine and surgery in France. While the percentage of veterinarians practising with pets remains stable – 80% of those registered with the order – that of rural veterinarians exercising more than 50% of their activity with animals shows a decrease of 18% in five years. Thus, these veterinarians increased from 3869 in 2016 to 3155 in 2020, a decrease of 714. This trend is worrying for rural areas, as veterinary and agricultural meshes are interdependent – a farmer always needs a veterinarian. The Government therefore proposes to abolish the zoning of veterinary aid, so as to allow communities to determine freely their methods of intervention.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u290	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u291	I agree with the statement and the diagnosis just made by the minister, and I believe that this aid system should not be limited to too restrictive, inappropriate zoning. The opinion is therefore favourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u292	Amendment No 1324 by Mrs Stéphanie Atger is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u293	The Minister has the floor to support Amendment No. 3425.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u294	The aim of the Government's amendment is to resolve a legal difficulty by deleting the terms "jurisdictional powers", which are not defined. It's editorial in nature.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u295	Amendments Nos 2428, 2429 and 2430 by the draftsman are drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u296	The Minister has the floor to support Amendment No. 3305.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u297	It is an amendment of coordination – between Article 35 of the Law Committee of the National Assembly and the latest drafting of Article 12 – concerning the recentralisation of the RSA.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u298	Amendments Nos 2431 and 2432 by the draftsman are drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u299	I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support Amendment No. 1264.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u300	This amendment by the Group The Republicans are very important in understanding the effect, on all departments, of the recentralisation of the RSA for some departments. An impact assessment is also required, in addition to the planned evaluation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u301	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u302	This is a clarification that seems relevant, in any case it is intelligent, even if the effect will certainly be minimal on the equalization fund. I'll give you a favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u303	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u304	The Government is opposed to this report, which would probably not be very useful, for several reasons. The neutralisation of the effects of the recentralisation of the RSA on the allocation of the Equalization Fund is a measure of equity for departments which cannot contribute, on the basis of the transfer fees for consideration (DMTO) which they do not receive. Failure to do so would pose a problem of equality before public office. This is a minimal effect of the order of 0.3% of the fund, which represents EUR 5 million out of 1.6 billion, which will be largely absorbed in 2022, with the strengthening of the fund linked to the increase in DMTO, which is massive in most territories. An evaluation would therefore not be appropriate. After several years of experimentation and evolution of DMTO's revenues, the effects of recentralisation on the fund are likely to be imperceptible. I would add, of course, that neutralisation could not be achieved if several dozen departments were to recentralize at once.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u305	Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u306	The reasons you have just developed to refuse my amendment surprise me: I am not trying to debate whether recentralisation should take place; I simply propose that an impact assessment could shed some light on what is going to be done. The latter would be very interesting because, as my colleague Jérôme Nury told me, the subject of the DMTO is not the same according to the departments. As you know: in some departments, there are far more volume changes than in others, which does not have the same impact on budgets. This is a real concern for the departments, including those who would like to try to recentralize. They need to see more clearly,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u307	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u308	... so I think this amendment deserves to be adopted.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u309	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u310	First of all, this is a matter that falls within the scope of the finance bill. In addition, we work continuously in close collaboration with the Assemblée des départements de France (ADF), since the equalization fund was invented by the departments themselves. We have even accepted an amendment allowing departments that receive a lot of DMTO to reserve them. All this is closely followed. I fully understand your concern, but I think that has nothing to do with the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u311	I call Mrs Guion-Firmin to support Amendment No. 1852.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u312	My amendment allows me to go back to the RSA file in Saint-Martin. As you know, the territory wants to demonize the RSA, and an experiment was to come into effect in 2019. Since then, the file has been completely blocked, which severely penalizes the community. With this amendment, I propose to resolve this situation and finally bring into force a provision guaranteed by law that also responds to a commitment by the Head of State to the community of Saint-Martin.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u313	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u314	Your amendment aims to extend the experiment to recentralize the financing of the management of the RSA and RSO – solidarity income – to the community of Saint-Martin. Section 35 of the original bill and section 12 of the draft finance bill already provide for this possibility. In fact, the experiment is open to all voluntary departments, which are candidates by way of deliberation. Since the amendment is satisfactory, I propose that you withdraw it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u315	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 3327 and 3225, on the additional article after Article 35. The Minister has the floor to support Amendment No. 3327.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u316	I'm going to talk about an experiment called Zero Non-Recourse Territories, which was the subject of an important work by Ms. Cloarec - Le Nabour. This experiment is a new tool made available to local actors in the fight against non-use of rights to develop and share initiatives taken in the territory concerned. Experimentation must lead to the emergence of innovative "go-to" solutions, closer to the demands and needs of the population. On the basis of the evaluation report, if the results are conclusive, the Government will be able to expand or generalize the experiment, if necessary. The proposed measure is thus fully in line with the active and proactive policy of improving access to the most precarious social rights.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u317	Mrs Christine Cloarec - Le Nabour, in support of Amendment No. 3225, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u318	Non-use of rights is an evil that weakens a large part of the French and causes situations of poverty and social exclusion. Combating non-use of rights is above all an issue of social justice and fairness of rights. Combating the non-use of rights means making our social protection system simpler, more automatic and more contemporary, but it also means better accompanying people, developing solutions to "go towards" and solutions to better inform, while simplifying approaches. The aim is to better support access to rights and to make every effort to avoid breaches of rights; This includes strengthening partnerships, in particular with France services houses. During the quinquennium, strong measures were taken to combat this scourge; These include the automatic calculation of the activity premium, the creation of complementary health care and its automatic allocation for the beneficiaries of the RSA, or, since the Social Security Financing Act for 2021, the mission to combat the non-use of rights and the request to social security bodies to adopt an approach of "go towards" and exchange of data useful for the identification of the rights of individuals. This amendment proposes to include in the law the possibility for any voluntary territory to become a zero non-recourse territory. To give the territories the opportunity to experiment is to enable them to innovate and evaluate schemes already in place or to come. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] I am therefore pleased and thank the Government for supporting this amendment, as well as the Republic on the move to take it back on its own. The Zero Non-Recourse Territories experiment is one of the proposals in the report "The Fair Benefit for Adjusted Benefits and Accompaniment", which I wrote with Julien Damon and which we presented to the Prime Minister in September 2018. This proposal has long been advocated by the Catholic Relief, which I welcome for its work on the subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u319	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u320	Very favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u321	Ladies and gentlemen, we still have 270 amendments to consider, 70 of which concern requests for reports. I therefore ask you whether you wish to extend our sitting or whether you would like to finish tomorrow's examination of the text. What do you think, Minister? The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u322	I think it's more reasonable to stop us here for tonight.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u323	All right. It was so decided. Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-16-O1104.u324	Next meeting, at 9 a.m.: Further consideration of the draft law on differentiation, decentralization, deconcentration and various measures to simplify local public action. The meeting is adjourned.
