ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u1	The next item is the debate on the motion for a resolution to amend the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly with regard to the organization of parliamentary work in times of crisis (No 3798, 3893). I should like to inform you that, at the request of the committee, pursuant to Rule 95(4) of the Rules of Procedure, the Assembly will consider as a matter of priority the single article at the end of the general discussion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u2	I call Mr Sylvain Waserman, Rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u3	I would like to begin by saying thank you because, unlike a bill from the Government, and contrary to a bill from one of our groups, it is the result of work and a working group to which each of the political groups and MPs who have committed themselves have contributed. I'll be working all afternoon on reminding him. On 5 May, Mr. Chairman, you gave me a working group and we deployed a methodology like the dialogue you had conducted and the consensual decisions you had taken to steer the work of the National Assembly in times of crisis. In this working group, we reached four conclusions. The first, almost unanimous, is that we did not want a parliamentary state of emergency that would redefine a set of rules specific to crisis situations, but that we intended to rely on governance, on the texts, on our ways of working, on the flexibility offered by the rules governing our work. The second point of conclusion was that a toolbox had to be built. This was fuelled by the 60 ideas arising from the meetings I had with each of the political groups. These are tools that can be used by our governance, by ourselves, in times of crisis. Each of the political groups has contributed to this. I have noted a number of examples, of which we can talk, whether on the written contributions – with suggestions, in particular, from the UDI-I Group – on the rules applicable to written questions – notably proposals from the Liberties and Territories Group – on the 360-degree view of all government control actions – as proposed by the LaREM Group – on the tools and techniques of remote voting, on the subject of reflection of different groups – Take action together, LaREM and the others – or on the organisation of the debates, on which the FI Group, in particular, has proposed solutions. I do not forget the Dem Group, which was also represented in this working group. We have therefore, from this work, set up a toolbox that will be at the disposal of governance when we have to prepare for the next crisis. The third point of conclusion is a whole series of actions which do not relate to decisions in the Chamber but to Quaestors and Services, to find alternative sites and to work on a higher degree of security of IT tools, since they would be used more in crisis situations. These conclusions made it possible to draw up a report, which you all commented on and to which we have added, on the initiative of the Socialist and related groups, an appointment clause. This is the only difference between the text that I am presenting to you today and the report that I have just mentioned: an appointment clause every 15 days for the Conference of Presidents, as long as governance decides to switch to "crisis mode" and, for example, to use digital tools for debates or votes. I would like to stress the moral contract that organized our work. The moral contract and the mandate I have been given is to talk only about the National Assembly and our work in the event of a crisis. This moral contract was desired by the opposition, and several opposition groups have even made its respect the sine qua non condition for their participation in this work. There will therefore be no surprise in the fact that I will respect this moral contract until the end: on the amendments that would not deal with the subject for which I have been mandated – and on which we have worked from six to eight months – I will give an unfavourable opinion in principle, despite the interest they may have in substance. The second point, which I shall comment on at the end of the debate on the amendments, is whether the decision-making rules of the Conference of Presidents should be derogated from. Should we have qualified majorities, should we allow one of the presidents to oppose, before we switch to crisis mode? I will not deal with the subject here because I will do so when I consider the amendments; This has been a great subject of debate which has been decided, in the dialogue, by the proposal we have today and which is co-signed, I would remind you, by five political groups. Finally, I would like to conclude with a plea for our beautiful institution, the National Assembly. For 231 years, the Assembly has been speeding up the life of our democracy. I would like to say to all those who condemn it and find it unnecessary that every decision of the Government during the crisis has been made possible by a law, sometimes of emergency health, by a set of texts voted in this Chamber: by the same token, this crisis has shown the essential democratic function of our institution. To those who decry it, criticize its attendance or its work, I would like to say that at no time did the National Assembly fail and that, in all political families, we were there when we had to debate, rule on important laws, exercise our role of monitoring the action of the Government, which was so important in times of crisis. To those who also criticise its ability to unite, I would like to say that all the decisions that have been taken since the first day of this crisis, with regard to our functioning, have been taken unanimously by the political groups: this shows that, despite the diversity of political convictions that we can have, despite these differences which constitute the richness of our democratic debate, when the essential thing at stake – and the essential thing was indeed our institution and its functioning – all the political groups can unanimously support the President when he is led to take such important decisions. Finally, to those who describe our Assembly and would consider it almost as without added value, I would like to say that it is interesting to look at the difference between the state in which the texts enter the National Assembly and the state in which they emerge: in the crisis we are going through, many examples could illustrate this difference. Finally, parliamentary added value is the difference between what comes into Parliament and what comes out of it; And it doesn't matter, to the limit, whether the amendments come from the majority, the opposition, the Government, the Senate or the Assembly: this added parliamentary value, the crisis has brought it to light in many respects, on topics on which we can come back. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – MM. Jimmy Pahun and Philippe Gosselin also applaud]] Finally, to those who may wish to integrate the state of emergency into the common law a little too quickly, I must say that our institution has never failed. Today, we are taking it a little further so that, whatever crisis we would have to face, we will be there, respecting the common democratic interest, to play our role fully and completely.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u4	In the general debate, Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u5	In the exceptional context we know, the commitment of the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left to stem the covid-19 epidemic must be clear, and in no case should the seriousness of the health crisis be underestimated. Taking the situation seriously, measuring health risk, acting to protect our citizens, anticipating our way of working does not mean refraining from taking a critical look at how the executive intends to respond to it, in particular with regard to the extension of an emergency regime, mechanisms that violate fundamental freedoms or the exclusion of Parliament in decision-making and control processes. Let us bear in mind that it is precisely in its capacity to function in times of crisis that the effectiveness of the rule of law is measured, the observance of which is precisely one of the essential conditions for solving problems in times of crisis. Since the beginning of this health crisis, when exorbitant powers of the common law have been conferred on the executive, we have constantly warned about the need to strengthen the role of Parliament. However, the executive and its majority refuse to engage in demanding parliamentary scrutiny, the latest example being the dissolution of the parliamentary fact-finding mission on the crisis of the Covid-19. If Parliament is to adapt in times of crisis, we believe that this adjustment must be in the direction of strengthening its tasks, and in particular its monitoring mission. The work carried out under the leadership of rapporteur Sylvain Waserman, within the framework of the working group on the organisation of our work in times of crisis, has been conducted with mutual respect and listening by all the groups, and for this we sincerely thank him. We therefore welcome the trans-party refusal to create a parliamentary state of emergency and the refusal to institutionalise a mode of crisis under specific governance and a body of rules. In general, while we emphasize good, balanced work, we regret that nothing has been said about the use of ordinances, the need to strengthen the oversight functions of Parliament, particularly the opposition, or the rebalancing of relations between Parliament and the Government. Above all, we remain cautious about the choice made in this motion for a resolution and its single article to entrust the Conference of Presidents with the possibility of temporarily adapting the arrangements for the organization of the work of the National Assembly. With this change, the majority alone, I say alone, will be able to decide to completely upset our parliamentary way of functioning in the event of exceptional circumstances – circumstances not listed, therefore left to its free will – including by excluding members of the national representation from committee meetings or public sittings. Even temporary, this eviction cannot be taken lightly and requires solid safeguards. A priori information of the group presidents by the President of the Assembly and an appointment clause every fortnight cannot be considered sufficient. The implementation of an exceptional mode of operation for our work must be the subject of an exceptional decision itself in its modalities, therefore, in our view, to rule out the majority fact. In fact, that is what our Rules of Procedure now provide: decisions of our House which limit or even deprive Members of their opportunity to express themselves in the Chamber, namely the scheduled legislative time, the simplified examination procedure or the procedure of legislation in committee, are not subject to the majority fact, since the legislator considered that these were decisions which were serious enough that only one group chairman could object to them. We have therefore tabled amendments which guarantee a decision taken unanimously by the parliamentary groups or, in retrospect, which could not be taken if two groups opposed it. If one of these amendments is not adopted, we will refuse to go along with an amendment to our Rules of Procedure that we could bitterly regret – yes, regret – if a future majority were willing to seize any pretext to rule out a full expression of the people's representatives. Because, every one of us knows, tomorrow is another day.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u6	Mr Jean-Michel Mis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u7	As we face an unprecedented crisis, we have been forced, since spring 2020, to adapt the way in which our Assembly operates in order to reconcile the continuity of our missions with the establishment of strict health rules. Most of the national parliaments subject to the same social distancing measures had to resort to new ways of working and organising. This pragmatic adaptation to an unprecedented critical situation has been the guarantee of the functioning of our institutions. As Yaël Braun-Pivet, President of the Law Commission, recently pointed out: "In times of crisis, only respect for the rules and institutions allows the democratic state to hold. » It is with this in mind that we are considering the motion for a resolution to amend the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly with regard to the organization of parliamentary work in times of crisis. This text is a translation of the conclusions of a trans-party working group of the Law Committee, set up on 5 May by the President of our Assembly, Richard Ferrand. The report of this working group was adopted on 12 November, and I would like to thank our colleague Sylvain Waserman for his investment and his commitment as rapporteur. While it is not appropriate to respond to a crisis situation by creating a body of specific rules, it is essential that the National Assembly continue to carry out its constitutional tasks. That is why the working group has chosen, on the one hand, to create a toolbox to strengthen the means of monitoring the Government's action by our assembly and, on the other hand, to amend the rules of the National Assembly. This change is pragmatic and adapted to the evolution of our missions in times of crisis. Indeed, we must be able to use digital tools that facilitate remote work, both in the debate and in the vote, both in committee and in public sittings. The amendment of the Rules of Procedure will allow the Conference of Presidents to adapt our work temporarily in the event of exceptional circumstances which would significantly affect the conditions for the participation, deliberation and vote of Members. This means, first of all, that the arrangements for the participation of Members in committee and in public sittings will be facilitated, if necessary, by the use of remote working tools, taking into account the political configuration of the Assembly, which cannot function without the presence of a minimum number of Members to debate freely. Secondly, the voting arrangements are designed to make it possible to vote remotely in two cases: when we decide on the whole text and when we decide on the Government's statements that give rise to a vote by Parliament under Article 50-1 of the Constitution. However, these adjustments cannot be considered without guarantees as to the sincerity of our discussions. I therefore welcome the fact that the motion for a resolution goes beyond the report by providing for a framework by the Conference of Presidents, which will have to decide every 15 days on the maintenance or modification of the decisions taken pursuant to the text, as well as a prior obligation for the President of the National Assembly to inform the presidents of the political groups. In conclusion, I would like to thank all of our colleagues who have been involved on this issue, and in particular Nicolas Demoulin, who contributed greatly to the work of the working group until 12 November. More than ever before, we need to be able to show responsibility and overcome our oppositions in order to reach a broad consensus. The Assembly has been able to reinvent itself by adapting its working conditions in this unique period. However, it should not exercise its tasks in a precarious environment, but should change its way of functioning over time. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] That is why I support the motion for a resolution to amend the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly with regard to the organisation of parliamentary work in times of crisis. The La République en marche group will vote in favour of this text and, in accordance with its spirit throughout the work that led to the drafting of the motion for a resolution, will not present any amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u8	Mr Philippe Gosselin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u9	The text that brings us together today concerns the amendment of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly with regard to the organization of parliamentary work in times of crisis. Here's a good technical title, maybe even a little techno. Subtitling is therefore necessary: it is really a question of ensuring parliamentary democracy in times of crisis, or of ensuring that Parliament is respected in times of crisis. Why should this need be repeated again? Because almost a year ago we entered a period of curfew: not the curfew at eighteen hours that we know today, but a curfew on the powers of Parliament and especially on those of the National Assembly. Let us make it clear that Parliament, in particular the National Assembly, was mistreated a few months ago – I am not sure, unfortunately, that all this is totally behind us. That is why the President of the National Assembly called for the creation of a working group within the Law Commission to work on an amendment to the National Assembly's Rules of Procedure with regard to the organization of parliamentary work in times of crisis, even though our group, like others, had already taken stock of things, made a diagnosis and made proposals. Our proposals, I must say, have been widely echoed by the working group led by Sylvain Waserman, whom I want to publicly thank, as I have already done, on my own behalf and on behalf of my group. Many of our proposals were brought together under the term "toolbox", the very one that flourished under other legislatures and other presidents of the Republic. It is true that it is a matter of giving Parliament and parliamentarians different means to continue to work, evaluate and monitor the Government's policy in times of crisis – this is not a small matter! It is, in fact, a matter of enabling Parliament and the National Assembly to preserve their constitutional missions, especially in times of crisis. The choice we have made collectively in this motion for a resolution is to ensure as much as possible the use of common law. André Chassaigne reminded him a few minutes ago: parliamentarians did not want an additional state of emergency, a new emergency regime, to be created; They did not want a parliamentary state of emergency to be recognised and further distance us from our democratic responsibilities. We collectively wanted to maintain the flexibility of parliamentary law in an operational and targeted manner. So that's what brings us together, although there are still some nuances between us. The motion for a resolution is part of the Conference of Presidents, therefore the majority group. Of course, we are under the Fifth Republic and the majority fact is well established in our country, but it seemed to us, on such a subject, that a qualified majority would have been preferable – unanimity, on the other hand, would have led to the introduction of a veto power for one of the groups. Of course, we can be told that the text takes into account the political configuration of the Assembly, but that was the least of the things. It should be remembered that this was not the case during the first confinement. Of course, a re-visitation clause is also provided for every fortnight, but it may only be declarative and incantatory. Finally, the President of the National Assembly will provide advance information to the groups. All these measures provide a framework for the organisation of work in times of crisis, but we believe that further action should have been taken. Because we consider it essential to set the law for periods of crisis, guided by reason, we will, for once, unite our voices with those of the majority. It is equally essential to clarify the rules on remote electronic voting in order to allow all MPs to meet and speak before the nation – which is the very essence of national representation. If, today, we find ourselves alongside our colleagues in the majority, despite our reservations, despite the inadequacies of the text, it is that the essential thing is at stake: democracy and the balance of institutions. When the essentials are at stake, then the hope of bringing us together arises. May this change in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly allow us to do so. In the best interests of democracy and the nation, the Republican Group will vote in favour of the motion for a resolution. [[MM. Sylvain Waserman, rapporteur, and Jimmy Pahun applaud]] Although you have warned us that you would refuse to consider certain subjects, Mr rapporteur, we will not, however, be deprived of making new proposals in the discussion of the amendments, not only to correct the mistakes of the past, but also to prepare for the future, and always, do not doubt it, in a constructive state of mind, with sincerity but vigilance.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u10	Mrs Isabelle Florennes has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u11	I want to say this from the outset and very frankly: the text that we are going to discuss is not annoyed, and I am convinced that we will be able to assess its scope very quickly. My colleague Sylvain Waserman, Vice-President of the Assembly and rapporteur of the Committee on Laws, proposes that we move our Rules of Procedure to work better and more effectively in times of crisis. How can we not agree with this objective in the period we are living in? Beyond the current health crisis, I am, as you know, a fervent supporter of modernising our rules of operation: a living parliament is a parliament that adapts and uses the new tools at its disposal. I believe that is what the National Assembly will do by adopting the motion for a resolution. Let us remember the many exchanges we had and the uncertainties we faced a year ago when the pandemic forced us to work in emergency, in full confinement. We had to adapt our rules quickly to continue our work and ensure that the democratic debate continued. We can collectively congratulate ourselves on what we did at that time: within a few months, we were able to consider seven bills by sitting almost one hundred and four hours, which is quite unprecedented. We can all be proud of this: we have been able to make Parliament live in spite of everything. I myself was present in the House to represent my group and I remember the many difficulties we encountered at that time: small gauge, late discussions, voting delegations... I want to believe that we will be able to agree today to equip ourselves with the tools that will enable us to be as effective in the future. [[MM. Sylvain Waserman, rapporteur, and Jimmy Pahun applaud]] Like its peers, the Group of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats is committed to democratic expression and welcomes the tools proposed by the motion for a resolution, which, as I said in committee, avoids the pitfall of creating a crisis regime. No complexity of our mode of operation, no burden of our procedures in this text; simply an adaptation of our rules allowing us to continue our work in all circumstances. No political strategy either, unlike what I was able to read here and there. The agility offered by these new operating rules will serve us all, but above all in Parliament. That is why the Group of the European Democratic Movement (MODEM) and the Group of the European People's Party (Allied Democrats) fully supports the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u12	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u13	Making changes to our Assembly's rules of procedure is not a subject that is passionate about outside this chamber: from the outside, it is like organizational stewardship – but a crucial organizational stewardship because the rules it sets determine how democracy is organized. With this motion for a resolution, we are invited to include in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly a method of organization specific to times of crisis. That's indispensable. All major organisations have one, so it was essential that our Assembly codifies in its settlement a functioning for times of crisis. In this regard, I welcome President Ferrand's approach, which was then initiated by Vice-President Waserman. We have been trying for almost a year now, whether it is the reduced presence of Members in the House, which is necessary but of course a source of frustration, or the vote on the amendments, which, de facto, is no longer effective for our colleagues who cannot be present, not because they do not want it, but because they cannot do so with regard to the health gauge. Despite these trials, our Assembly is one of the parliaments which have never stopped sitting and which, no doubt, even sat most during the health crisis. For example, some parliaments have restricted their sessions to the consideration of emergency texts, or even have simply ceased to sit. In the motion for a resolution, you propose three mechanisms. The first allows absent Members to participate in the debates. The second, on which I shall return, opens the possibility of remote voting for certain types of very limited ballots. Finally, you are proposing a welcome toolbox to adapt the various tools available to Members, such as written questions or written contributions, to deal with future crises. Because it seems essential to me that an emergency regime should not be prolonged, I proposed to you, at the Conference of Presidents on 12 November 2020 – as you recalled earlier – that every restriction on the rights of parliamentarians should be regulated. It has not been possible to do so by providing for referral to the Constitutional Council, but you have introduced a mandatory review clause by the Conference of Presidents every 15 days from the adoption of such measures; I thank you, Mr rapporteur, and I think this is a satisfactory solution. However, these are rules of exception that pose risks to our democracy. I would like to mention a few of them here. Firstly, according to the motion for a resolution, the decision to adapt the arrangements for the participation and vote of Members would be taken by the Conference of Presidents: in fact, it would be based essentially on the majority group. Perhaps we could have made it conditional on qualified majority approval by the groups, as was said earlier. In any event, the re-visit clause will allow us to carry out a very precise follow-up on this matter. A second point saddens me a little more; It relates to the lack of solutions for effective remote voting, in particular electronic voting. As you recalled, your motion for a resolution makes it possible for two types of elections, by decision of the Conference of Presidents: the solemn votes on the whole text, as well as those on a declaration by the Government, pursuant to Article 50-1 of the Constitution. The vote on the amendments and on the articles of the texts under discussion would therefore be excluded. It must be admitted, however, that the essence of our parliamentary work lies in this type of vote. On this point, you are not making a concrete proposal and we regret it. However, remote voting is practised in several parliaments in Europe, particularly in the context of this crisis. For example, at the beginning of the crisis, the Belgian House of Representatives urgently amended its rules to allow distance voting in committee, either by show of hands – in video conferencing – or by a nominal vote taken orally using video conferencing software. Mr rapporteur, I hear you already saying that the Constitution does not allow this. Nevertheless, I still believe that the National Assembly must quickly work to make such a mechanism possible. [[Applause on the SOC and Dem panels]] We are of course aware of the difficulty of adapting our settlement in times of crisis: it is a question of finding a compromise between the requirement of protection in the face of exceptional circumstances and the need to continue to exercise democracy. That is why the Socialist and related Group has not tabled any amendments to your motion for a resolution and will vote on it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u14	Mr Thomas Gassilloud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u15	We are meeting to discuss a proposal to amend our rules of procedure, in the light of the exceptional circumstances we have experienced since last spring. The National Assembly's Rules of Procedure should enable democracy to function effectively in any situation, despite the crises it may have to overcome. This is a challenge for us all the more difficult because our country has Members from all over the world – I am of course thinking of the ultramarine Members and those who represent the French from abroad. During the early days of the crisis last year, all the political groups and all the Assembly's services suffered what the armies call the sideration effect, proof that in the twenty-first century strategic surprise remains a reality. When it flirts, there are only two possibilities: to be ready or not to be ready. Unfortunately, it is often the second that wins; We must then be able to adapt, which requires great agility of thought. It was thanks to such adaptability that the Assembly was able to continue to function, despite the unprecedented nature of the situation. Between March 15 and May 15, 2020, during the first confinement, seven bills were considered. The crisis has never prevented Parliament from functioning, but organisational improvements resulting from the report drawn up by the working group set up on 5 May 2020 will help to better understand future crises, if necessary. Moreover, if the present feedback concerns a health crisis, it is indeed to any type of crisis that we must now prepare, whether it is social, linked to a computer attack – this has been the case recently –, a technological accident or a major international conflict. The report of 20 November 2020 identifies four areas that should enable the Assembly to respond effectively to the potential challenges of future crises: the preservation of its constitutional tasks, the preservation of the flexibility of parliamentary law, the use of a toolbox and the adaptation of practical measures to be applied without delay. The presence of Members of Parliament is an essential question: to answer it is to organize the way in which national representation will be ensured. What rules should be laid down to allow Members to participate in the discussions? For the future, consideration should be given to a mode of presence which, whatever the circumstances, ensures the proportional representation of groups, in accordance with the principle requirement referred to many times in the National Assembly's Rules of Procedure. The amendment proposed to us is therefore necessary: it will make it possible to secure legally the decisions which can be taken in this area by the Assembly's bodies, taking into account exceptional circumstances. The question of remote voting is included in the question of deliberation. This is not a flawless solution, but it is a tool that we must seize. It gives some flexibility to the parliamentary functioning, which is more so in situations where Members cannot be present. The Group of the European People's Party welcomes the trans-party work which has been carried out and which is a successful outcome of this motion for a resolution; It is an undeniable step forward for our democracy. The text has the advantage of updating the Assembly's rules in the light of the experience of the crisis, using technology to address the obstacles faced by some of our colleagues, including ultramarine Members. We owe the consensus we have reached in particular to the work of our colleague Sylvain Waserman, who has constantly been committed to reconciling the views of each other. Thank you, rapporteur. The Group of the European People's Party will therefore enthusiastically vote in favour of the motion for a resolution. [[Sylvain Waserman, rapporteur, applauds]] Finally, we take advantage of the amendment to our Rules of Procedure to formulate a proposal which we believe would improve our organisation and the effectiveness of our parliamentary work. This is the meaning of Amendment No 95, tabled by our colleague Jean-Charles Larsonneur, which aims to better distribute the work in committee by allowing the Committee on National Defence and the Armed Forces to be seized on the merits with regard to draft legislation authorizing the approval of agreements on cooperation in the field of defence. Indeed, in view of the expertise of the Commissioners concerned, it seems appropriate to entrust them with the examination of such texts.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u16	Mr Michel Zumkeller has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u17	Soon a year ago, thousands of businesses, self-employed, administrations and public services had to adapt, often in an emergency, to continue to operate despite the crisis of the covid-19. The National Assembly also succeeded, thanks to the competence of its services: at the height of the crisis, we found ourselves in this Chamber one or two per group to vote emergency laws very often composed of ordinances, to audition by video conference and to restrict parliamentary control to questions to the Government. Have we learned the lessons of this crisis? We have probably done so only very partially, first because it is not finished, then because the modification of such deep-rooted habits requires long-term work. The working group that you led, Mr rapporteur, contributed to this in a spirit of dialogue. In our view, this is one of the first concrete lessons we need to learn: we need to make other places operational so that they can welcome parliamentary work in the event of a new crisis. Secondly, the motion for a resolution responds to the urgency of the situation. Everything worked well in the spring of 2020 thanks to the flexibility of our Rules of Procedure but also to the unanimous cooperation of all groups in the face of the urgency. However, we need to create a mechanism that can secure the innovations of remote voting – which is indisputably necessary – and limited physical deliberation, particularly with regard to the Constitutional Council. As we cannot anticipate future crises, we must make ourselves adaptable. We therefore agree with your logic of flexibility, particularly in terms of governance. Yes, it is for the Conference of Presidents to act in exceptional circumstances. But we have been diverging from the beginning on one point. At the Conference of Presidents, each group chairman holds as many votes as his group has of members. In other words, the majority decides. It would therefore be up to her to decide whether or not we are facing "exceptional circumstances", and to force some representatives of the nation not to deliberate physically. If everything went well in 2020, will it always be the same? We believe that a lock must be installed that is sufficiently strong without blocking our operation, for example a two-thirds majority or a double veto. If we make this proposal, it is not to attack the majority or this proposal, but it is because we are guided by a principle: whenever we take a restrictive measure of our rights, we have to imagine what other elected representatives who are less democrats could do with it. Even within our own assembly, power must stop power. In committee, Mr rapporteur, you have told me that decisions have been taken by a simple majority since 1954. But this cannot be an argument: between 1954 and 2020, there was no invasion of the territory, no crisis of this magnitude, no global epidemic! The very nature of the crises is to be exceptional, and last year's crisis was exceptional. We are talking about extraordinary cases, for which there should be no difficulty in imagining new devices. We need to be able to challenge well-established processes to deal with the unknown and the worst. If the text is maintained as it stands, a simplified review procedure may be subject to a veto, but the introduction of a crisis operation whereby presences would be capped will not be able to do so; We should therefore take note of this as a banal decision. You have retained the re-visit clause suggested by many groups and in particular by Jean-Christophe Lagarde, which is a very good thing. On the other hand, as you have understood, the mere information of the group presidents is not sufficient in our view. That is what led us to abstain during the examination of the text in committee. We hope to change it in order to "dispel the fears expressed", as President Richard Ferrand said when the report was presented. We would not like to reiterate the experience of the reform of the 2019 Rules of Procedure, because the need for consultation had not always materialised during the parliamentary discussion. Because we want to learn from the crisis, we are at your disposal to improve some of the tools widely used in 2020, in particular the written questions and written contributions, which are dear to us, but also the orders, for which maximum association of Parliament is necessary. Finally, crises must also be an opportunity to change routine logics. The parliamentary "after-world" must be modernised by taking into account the particular situation of our ultramarine colleagues: they must be able to vote and participate as far as possible, in order to compensate for the geographical inequality they suffer. The IDU and independent group hopes that the parliamentary debate will allow us to make progress on all these points, in order to move towards a mechanism that is as successful as possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u18	Mr Michel Larive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u19	It was almost a year ago – on 23 March 2020 – that the state of health emergency was proclaimed, giving the Prime Minister the opportunity to take by decree all the measures deemed necessary to deal with the epidemic. While the urgency of the situation requires exceptional measures, there is no justification for excluding representatives of the nation from the construction of the solutions and decisions resulting therefrom. Despite the Government's attempts to ignore the legislative power, the group La France insoumée has worked tirelessly, since the arrival of the covid-19 in France, to be a force of proposal. His serious work, made available to all in order to offer alternatives to those proposed by the Government, has since March 2020 resulted in the publication of eleven bills, six plans and four guides and the formation of a specific committee of inquiry on crisis management. After bypassing Parliament, the Government muzzled him. After the submission of a first report in June 2020, accompanied by new conclusions in December, it was decided at the end of January last year, it is not known why, to dissolve the parliamentary committee of inquiry on the management of the covid-19. Perhaps the explanation is on the side of a risky crisis management policy, which you would rather hide than assume. The climax of your drift refers to the preponderance of the defence counsel in the conduct of national health policy. This decision-making body is governed by secrecy. Parliamentarians are excluded and discover the identity of some of its members through the press. Today, we are discussing a motion for a resolution to amend the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in order to facilitate the work of Parliament in times of crisis. We are pleased, as in committee, that the presidential majority is trying to plan health – a method that we have been demanding for months in all areas of public action. With this in mind, a plan commissioner, Mr. François Bayrou, has been appointed, but it seems that the way in which the next general election will be organised is more worrying than the prospects for resolving the crisis. We regret that this motion for a resolution serves as a pretext for a further weakening of Parliament. The National Assembly's Rules of Procedure resulting from the 2008 constitutional review provide that the composition of the eight standing committees, of seventy-three deputies each, respects the proportions of the political groups. Some minority groups, including ours, have only two seats per standing committee. By dividing by two, for months, the number of deputies who can sit in committee, you are putting in jeopardy the possibility for opposition groups to exercise their prerogatives of legislative proposal and of monitoring the action of the Government. In addition, with this text, the Conference of Presidents will be able to adapt voting arrangements, in particular by using remote working tools. The explanatory memorandum to the motion for a resolution indicates that two types of voting may be included in the field of remote voting: votes on the whole text and those on Government declarations made pursuant to Article 50-1 of the Constitution. But respect for the principle of personal voting and for the requirements of clarity and sincerity in the parliamentary debate do not seem to us to be able to exclude from the operative part all other types of voting. The presidential majority is not in the process of trying to limit Parliament's powers. Expedited procedures, the systematic use of orders, the passage into force by Article 49.3 during the debate on pension reform, the reform of our Assembly's Rules of Procedure in 2019, the opposition amendments deemed inadmissible when they are too numerous, the second vote when the first one does not satisfy the Government: everything suggests that this proposal is a new step in the questioning of our institution. No crisis can justify such a drift. Even if it is essential to anticipate by adopting appropriate procedures, the imprecise nature of your text suggests that the subjectivity it generates makes it a legal support for the supervision of the National Assembly. We, the unsubstantiated parliamentarians, refuse to increase the infringement of our institution and the concentration of powers in the hands of the executive. We will therefore propose amendments aimed at giving this text a meaning that better corresponds to the functioning of modern democracies.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u20	Mrs Sylvia Pinel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u21	The Liberties and Territories Group would like first of all to welcome the quality of the work undertaken at the initiative of President Ferrand, which led to the conclusion of this proposal, which we have co-signed. In particular, I would like to highlight the important concerted efforts made by our rapporteur, Sylvain Waserman, as well as the spirit of consensus and the quality of the exchanges that have prevailed, both within the working group and during the examination of the text in committee. The aim of this motion for a resolution is to introduce into the Rules of Procedure a more flexible option allowing the Conference of Presidents, in times of crisis, to have the flexibility to adapt the methods of discussion and voting, both in committee and in public sittings. This solution seems to us to be the most appropriate. The creation of an ad hoc working structure of Parliament in times of crisis, which had been mentioned at the beginning of the work, would have led to a functioning of the National Assembly at a discount, which we do not wish. We believe that every effort must be made to preserve the proper functioning of our democratic life and our institutions, including in the most serious crises. The National Assembly must work as far as possible on a constant regulatory framework, in particular to effectively monitor crisis management. The derogatory legislative work measures introduced at the heart of last spring's health crisis – two representatives per group in session – were not satisfactory from either a constitutional or a political point of view. We therefore welcome the rapporteur's clarity that these modalities are now excluded. One of the lines of the report is to adapt the arrangements for the participation of Members in committee meetings or public meetings to the political configuration of the Assembly. This seems to us to be a step in the right direction, as at least the proportionality of the representation of groups must be maintained. However, it seems unthinkable to us to formally deny a Member access to the Chamber or to a committee. A Member of Parliament cannot be prevented from sitting and doing his most fundamental work. The right organisation in times of crisis is also – I stress this point – the responsibility of each of the groups, which must be trusted. That is why, if we see this change in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of a good?it, we call, like several other groups, to avoid as much as possible the pitfall of a decision at the Conference of Presidents by the vote of the?majority, which de facto can decide alone in this body. We would have liked the solution of a decision by qualified majority. While unanimity may be problematic, since only one group has the power to block any decision, the decision by qualified majority seems to us to be a measure of common sense, respectful of the opposition, which is able to live up to its responsibilities during times of crisis. We could think collectively about ways in which it could be established. If this qualified majority decision is not adopted, we insist that consensus be sought as far as possible. The introduction of a re-visit clause in the text, allowing the Conference of Presidents to decide, every 15 days, whether or not to maintain its decisions, is a welcome provision. Finally, among the various proposals contained in the toolbox developed by the working group, we support the introduction of remote voting for voting on the whole text or on a Government declaration under article 50 (1) of the Constitution. We even hope that this method of voting, which exists in the European Parliament, will be explored in the normal context of our work, and not only in times of crisis. We welcome the inclusion of my proposal in the working group as one of the tools to use written questions to strengthen Government control, giving priority to crisis-related issues and strengthening the capacity of the groups to report on unanswered issues. We also support the tool to ensure that parliamentarians are informed at the local level through regular meetings with the prefects. This proposal, which corresponds to one of our recurring demands, would make it possible to adapt the public response to territorial specificities as best possible. [[Sylvain Waserman, rapporteur, applauds]] That is why our group will support this motion for a resolution which we have collectively contributed to building in a spirit of construction and responsibility.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u22	Mr Aurélien Taché has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u23	Whatever the crisis our country is going through, democracy must never cease to function. On 9 December 1893, when an artisanal bomb was launched in the Chamber, the Speaker of the House maintained the sitting. During the historic flood of the Seine in 1910, the deputies crossed the court on canoes, promising to sit on the stands if the water were to overwhelm their benches. In 1918, the Spanish flu was also not correct in the continuity of the debates. In the face of the covid -19 pandemic, we were forced, like our predecessors, to adapt to exceptional circumstances, but the challenge is great and poses a real democratic question because the essence of parliamentary work is not well suited to confinement. Our mission is to make the law, to build it through a debate that must be as thorough as it is contradictory and open. Under no circumstances should national representation become a passive forum for automatic registration of sovereign decisions of the Government. Parliament is the place where we vote, but it is also the place where we speak and speak to the French. The Assembly must not only persist in times of crisis, but must also ensure the quality and integrity of the debates, protect its political balances, ensure the expression of pluralism and ensure the effectiveness of the mandate of each of the elected members of the Assembly. If the upheavals are unpredictable, they are called upon to multiply. We must ensure that they do not serve as a pretext to weaken democratic counter-powers and muzzle oppositions. Since last March, the epidemic has made a lasting change in the functioning of Parliament, like all of our institutions, in a grey area where the most basic democratic guarantees are being undermined. A permanent state of emergency is being established as a result of a crisis that cannot be seen at the end of the crisis. Without calling into question the need to take strong measures to combat the epidemic, I believe that the perpetual extension of the state of emergency must alert us. In particular, the Government offers itself the possibility of taking all animal health measures by order, effectively excluding national representation in decision-making processes. In these circumstances, Parliament is definitely no longer in a position to exercise its constitutional mandate to monitor government action. The balance of power is no longer respected, the executive is predominant in the face of legislation already very weak in normal times, and now crushed. The danger is that this flawed operation will become normal. Adapting should not mean getting used to or resigning to anything. At the heart of the crisis, one ends up astonished at nothing and losing the most basic democratic reflexes; But we must not lower our guard, on the contrary. At a time when our institutions and our representative model are being called into question, the management of the health crisis becomes the scene of all the abuses linked to the dysfunctions of the Fifth Republic. Beyond strictly health issues, this situation must ask us more generally about the exercise of power and democracy in France. It is our duty to commit ourselves collectively to renewal, to the democratic revival of our country, and to open up a real reflection on the future of our institutions. If the crisis has exacerbated these symptoms, our democracy has been ill for many years. The difficulties we face today are the effects as the causes of older issues. Hyper-presidentialization, technocentrism, the lack of representativeness of our institutions – if parity has progressed in the Assembly under this legislature, what about diversity? –, all these substantive issues become clearly problematic. Crisis situations can emerge the worst, but also the best. By pushing us to reconsider how we operate, this crisis offers us the opportunity to look at these shortcomings and not only to adapt, but also to repair what is crumbling, to improve what is working and to dare to invent what is still missing. The initiative to revise our regulation is welcome and we will support it, but I can only deplore the lack of ambition. We could at least have taken an example of our colleagues in the European Parliament, who quickly took sufficient steps to enable Members to exercise their democratic rights and legislative duties through distance voting and dematerialised participation. The right of amendment, in particular, is constitutional and can only be effective if elected representatives are guaranteed the opportunity to defend their amendments and vote on them. On a larger scale, it is our entire institutional functioning that needs to evolve in depth. The proportional election of our assembly in particular, repeatedly promised, always postponed...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u24	It's not the subject of the day, it's not the subject of tomorrow, by the way!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u25	...– a simpler and fairer method of voting, similar to what exists and works in most European democracies – would facilitate the indispensable democratic transition. There is nothing negative about change if we move in the right direction. Our regulations, such as our laws and our Constitution, are not fixed texts; it is up to us to continually shape them to respond to the changes and challenges of our time.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u26	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u27	I now call, in the committee's text, the single article of the motion for a resolution, which is considered as a matter of priority.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u28	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u29	I often remind you, in this House, that when we legislate – but also, in this case, when we change the rules of the House – our hand must tremble. The decisions we make in a given context, with the current majority and the president you are, dear Richard Ferrand, may one day have repercussions that we do not measure. Today, a decision taken by the majority alone can involve the search for consensus, the willingness to communicate upstream with the group presidents, to share the reflection and to reach a collective solution. This may be the method that you will apply: I do not question your ethics. But tomorrow there may be another majority, which does not behave in the same way, and the decisions to be taken at the Conference of Presidents by that majority alone may have far more serious consequences than we imagine today. It is for this reason that I believe it is essential, as many speakers do, not to leave to the majority alone the responsibility of hindering the power of Members to legislate, because it is a serious thing. I mentioned this in the general discussion, but I wanted to go back to this point which seems to me to be crucial, given the serious consequences that such a provision could have.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u30	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u31	Mr. David Habib has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u32	The reflection I am about to make is based on an unpredictable situation, which the rapporteur, Waserman, could not anticipate: it arose from the difficulty we encountered in the Committee of Inquiry on the Management and Consequences of the Covid Epidemic19. There is nothing in the proposed amendment to the Rules of Procedure which makes it possible to provide, almost automatically, that once the founding element of the state of emergency remains valid, the Committee of Inquiry becomes, after the six-month period laid down in the Order of 17 November 1958, a fact-finding mission. I told you, Mr. Chair: I fully believe everything you say. When Mr. Borowczyk claims that he didn't make that choice, he's lying. In taking the decision to suspend the work of the commission of inquiry, as Michel Larive pointed out, he committed a major mistake in view of the concern of the French, but also of the questions posed by the management of the epidemic.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u33	Very bad signal!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u34	Thus, the committee of inquiry could not look at the vaccination campaign, when we all want to know how Europe – because it is not just a question of accusing the French government – failed on this crucial issue. In taking this example, I want to tell you, Mr President, that beyond this motion for a resolution – which our group will support, as our President Valérie Rabault announced during the general debate – we wish to reflect, under your authority and that of Mr Waserman, on the control of the Government by Parliament during a state of emergency. That is the meaning of my intervention.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u35	Mr Philippe Gosselin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u36	Only a few words at this stage, because we will have the opportunity to return to it: we too will vote, as I said in the rostrum, in favour of this motion for a resolution. We will not release an additional condition from our hat at the last minute: a commitment is a commitment, and we have taken it in the best interests of the Assembly, and therefore of the nation. However, to supplement my remarks during the general debate, this revision of the regulation should not exempt us from further reflections on the functioning of Parliament in times of crisis and from the ardent obligations imposed on us in this area. Astonishment came to light in March 2020 – no one can blame anyone for it, even if we can regret it: we have both found ourselves at the foot of the wall, facing an unprecedented situation. If parliamentary democracy has not wavered, it has still trembled and coughed well, and we have encountered difficulties. A commission of inquiry has indeed been set up, with some difficulty. However, while the report it has given has had a wide impact, the crisis is not over. It would therefore seem important for the Assembly to continue to assess its impact on a number of policies, whether good or worse, or the shortcomings that may have emerged. I will not insist on this point further because, if this is the place, this is not the time to do so. However, this reform of our Rules of Procedure, which is certainly limited but whose effects may prove to be quite significant, should not be regarded as the alpha and the omega of the functioning of the Assembly in times of crisis. Other elements, which we have repeatedly insisted on, particularly in the Committee's preparatory work, must also be taken into account, in particular as regards the listening and respect which the various groups must show, but also the rules of balance, hence the powers and counter-powers, which are equally important in a democracy and in an assembly like ours.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u37	Amendments Nos 83 and 84 by Mr Le Fur, which may be subject to a joint debate, are defended. What is the committee's opinion on these amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u38	They aim to reduce the flexibility we would have in deciding to adapt our operations in times of crisis, by replacing the terms "exceptional circumstances" with "state of emergency" or "state of emergency". Two factors lead me to express an unfavourable opinion. Firstly, and this is an important point, we do not limit the scope of this motion for a resolution to cases of health crisis. Secondly, more fundamentally, it is the executive that decides to trigger the state of health emergency. We cannot let him decide in our place whether we should turn into a crisis: we must retain our decision-making power, by entrusting this decision to the Conference of Presidents, under the control of the Constitutional Council. For this reason, I give an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u39	Very good argument!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u40	I have before me four amendments, Nos 107, 1, 109 and 2, which can be discussed jointly. I call Mr André Chassaigne to support Amendment No. 107.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u41	Its purpose is to provide an essential safeguard for the initiation of future rule 49-1 B of our Rules of Procedure. We cannot now decide that the freedom of expression and the power to legislate of Members could be hampered by the introduction of a gauge that would prevent an immense majority of them from accessing the work of committees or the Chamber in order to debate a text or to carry out their supervisory functions. Even exceptional circumstances could not justify a single majority calling into question the constitutional principle laid down in article 27 of the Constitution, which declared any mandatory mandate null and void. However, this can happen when this article is adopted: a Member could, because of the imposed gauge, be prevented from defending amendments that differ from his group's position – which happens, in particular, in groups such as my own, for the overseas Members. The use of this article is therefore not a small matter: just as with the start of the scheduled legislative time, the simplified examination procedure or the legislation in committee, all the group presidents must agree. Imagine that, tomorrow, a majority decides to launch this future article on the grounds that a strike paralyzing the country would be an exceptional circumstance likely to significantly affect the conditions of participation, deliberation or voting: this would not be impossible! It is up to us, here and now, to anticipate such situations. We therefore propose, through this amendment, that a group chairman should be able to object to the use of these exceptional arrangements for the organisation of our work: with exceptional procedure, exceptional start-up.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u42	Mr Michel Zumkeller has the floor to support Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u43	It follows the same logic as that advocated by our colleague Chassaigne. However, we propose that two group chairmen be able to oppose the triggering of Article 49-1 B, in order precisely to prevent a single group from blocking the process. Jean-Christophe Lagarde has said this on several occasions: we are in favour of this motion for a resolution, with the exception of one point which bothers us: the power given to the majority to decide everything. In an extraordinary situation, it seems important to us, in order to give even more force to such a decision, to ensure that it is validated by all parties and not only by the majority – as happened last year, since all group presidents were responsible – so that it cannot be taken if two group presidents veto it. It is simply a question of allowing everyone to be involved in the choices rather than letting the majority always decide everything alone. As we have said, there is no criticism of the current majority. However, such a tool, placed in the hands of elected officials with a different conception of democracy, could have other effects.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u44	I call Mr André Chassaigne to support Amendment No. 109.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u45	I am a little embarrassed, because this is an amendment to the back-up: it is obvious that if Amendment No 107 were to be adopted, it would not be necessary. I'm still defending him, but that's a little unfortunate. The aim of the amendment is to take into account the fears that you will probably not fail to express, Mr rapporteur, about the inconsiderate opposition of a single group chairman, who, for his pure pleasure, would be trying to block the process – I am seeking, as you often do, Mr President, a consensus. Why this amendment? You have indicated, Mr rapporteur, that you have been given a "parliamentary archaeology" exercise – I like this term. Therefore, during your research, you had to find the proceedings of the Conference of Presidents on Tuesday, 17 September 2013. What happened that day? The Communist Group objected to the scheduled legislative review of the pension reform project presented by the then socialist majority – a majority who used this procedure for almost all texts. For pension reform, we felt that this was not acceptable. The President and all the members of the Conference of Presidents looked at me as if I had gone mad – and for the reason that it was the first time since the introduction of this procedure in the Constitution and the Assembly's Rules of Procedure in 2008, that a group president opposed it. For five years, the scheduled legislative time had been used without anyone ever opposing it! My socialist comrades therefore thought, quite simply, that it was not possible to do so. [[Smile]] This parliamentary anecdote is important, because it proves that the opposition possibilities available to a group president are never used in an inconsiderate way – especially when I use them – but only when it proves essential for democracy. However, if you fear that a president or chair of a group will take on the political responsibility of opposing the start of this article when it is necessary, we propose that you give this opportunity to two presidents of a group, not one. Isn't that the way of wisdom?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u46	President Chassaigne, everyone understood that this was a subsidiary amendment, the main one having been set out earlier. Mr Michel Zumkeller has the floor to support Amendment No. 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u47	Like Mr Chassaigne, I am surprised to have to submit a withdrawal amendment before the vote on the original amendment. This seems to be a very special process, as we had already pointed out in the examination of previous texts; But don't worry about it. The aim here is to make the decision of the Conference of Presidents conditional on a two-thirds majority. I repeat: this article will be applied in extraordinary situations. When the Parliament, meeting in Congress in Versailles, amends the Constitution, for example, it does not do so by a simple majority but by a two-thirds majority. We might consider that, in exceptional circumstances, the same rule should apply. I assure you: the decision that would be so arrested would have more strength than if it were made by a simple majority.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u48	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u49	This has been a major factor in our work in committee: our discussions have focused on whether the Conference of Presidents should respect the majority fact. You mentioned parliamentary archaeology, Mr. President Chassaigne. This term refers to the very interesting thesis of Mr Bruniet, in which it appears that the adoption of the rule of the majority fact as a method of decision-making by the Conference of Presidents dates back to 1954. You're right, there are some exceptions. You referred to the opposition to the scheduled legislative time when the six-week time limit was not respected. Consideration can also be given to the simplified examination procedure, to which a group chairman may object if he considers that the text is too technical. At the end of our work, we voted against the derogation from the majority rule for two reasons. First of all, it would be to open Pandora's box: if the triggering of Article 49-1 B was submitted to a two-thirds majority, it would soon have been considered that this was not the only important decision taken by the Conference of Presidents – there are many others – and to begin a reflection on the majority fact. However, the latter is the founding principle of the rules of operation of the National Assembly, in that it derives from the democratic expression allowed by the majority vote. This issue was at the heart of the discussions with several group presidents – I remember in particular a discussion with Mr Abad. Obviously, the temptation exists, in all groups, to invent an ad hoc rule. We have finally considered – in any case, the balance we have found – that we should not derogate from respect for the majority fact, which underpins the functioning of our Parliament. To the arguments that you trust the current President of the Assembly, but fear that others will adopt less consensual behaviour and do not seek to unite all political groups, especially if representatives of totalitarian or anti-republican populist movements become the majority in the Assembly, I reply that you are obviously right, but that the use of Rule 49-1 B would then be the least of our concerns: it is the whole of our Rules of Procedure that would not stand up to the disaster scenario that you are referring to.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u50	What an optimism!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u51	The worst is never certain!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u52	On the substance, of course, decisions must be taken by the widest possible majority, as Mrs Pinel has said, among other things. I pointed out earlier that the decisions of the Conference of Presidents, taken throughout the management of the crisis of the Covid-19, were unanimous. The situation we experienced in March 2020 obviously produced a sideration effect and, as crises multiply, perhaps everyone's demand will grow. However, we must trust the majority fact that underpins the functioning of our Assembly. If we deviate from it, we will, it seems to me, put our finger in a gear that will overcome us. Finally, the balanced proposal we are submitting to you has been approved by the majority groups but also by the LR group with which we have exchanged a great deal. We have come to the conclusion that, in the context of a text on the functioning of the Assembly in times of crisis – which requires our agility and responsiveness – we should not derogate from the majority fact that underpins our institution.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u53	[[Smile]] I will not deduce from these debates that the simplest thing would be not to change a majority: it would be inappropriate...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u54	This statement will not be included in the record, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u55	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 46.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u56	It is intended to involve in the Conference of Presidents a representative of non-attached Members, a cause which, as you know, Mr President, rapporteur, is dear to me. In order to be fully informed, non-attached Members should be involved in the Conference of Presidents, since its decisions are aimed at changing the organisation of parliamentary work, decisions which, in fact, also concern them. I had already said in committee that the absence of a representative of Members not registered in the Conference of Presidents led to a lack of information. You then replied, Mr rapporteur, that this was not correct, since the non-attached Members are, like the other Members, informed of the decisions of the Conference of Presidents through the record of the Conference of Presidents. However, you are well aware that this record does not reflect the fullness of the discussions in this body – and for cause – which may relate to information that is extremely important to all Members, including non-attached Members. Members who do not attend the meeting therefore do not have full information. To give you very specific examples, one can discuss at the Conference of Presidents – without necessarily taking a decision – the possibility of examining a particular text under the accelerated procedure or according to that of the scheduled legislative time, but since this information does not appear in the record, Members who are not registered do not have access to it. They must therefore constantly go fishing to obtain this type of information. I reiterate my desire for full transparency. I do not say that decisions are taken in an opacity, but I regret that non-attached Members do not enjoy a full and complete existence in the House like other Members. Everything is done here for political groups and not for Members who do not belong to any group. In addition, since non-registered persons do not have a representative, the information transmitted to the group presidents is also not transmitted to them. In conclusion, I would like to point out that non-registered senators are associated, through one of their representatives, with the Conference of Presidents of the Upper House. What exists in the Senate should, just as legitimately, exist in our chamber. I do not see why we, non-attached members, should be less well off than non-attached senators.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u57	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u58	First of all, I am pleased that this text will help to dispel a misunderstanding. Your statement in committee suggested that the non-attached Members were not informed of the conclusions of the Conference of Presidents. We were able to establish in committee that this was not true and that all non-attached Members received, two hours after the end of the Conference of Presidents, a comprehensive account of its decisions. Our debates therefore made it clear that, at present, and contrary to what had been said here and there, all non-attached Members were well informed of the conclusions of the Conference of Presidents. I hear your wish to participate in this body, but I personally express an opinion against this proposal. I would like to reiterate how important and meaningful the existence of the political groups, which enjoy real recognition as they now have constitutional value. The opinion is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u59	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u60	I hear your argument and I know that the rules of procedure do not provide for this possibility, but I do not understand why the National Assembly could not decide to grant non-status members what is granted to non-status senators. It is also, it seems to me, a question of the equality of parliamentarians and of constitutional equality.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u61	Mr Michel Zumkeller has the floor to support Amendment No. 3.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u62	We support the idea that the limitation of the participation of Members in sittings should be proportional to the composition of the groups. Nevertheless, we bring a small flat. Under such a provision, small groups such as ours, IDU and independent, are very often represented by a single Member of Parliament. However, there is generally a diversity of opinions within these groups. In order to take this into account, we would like a minimum threshold of two Members to be set. I am sure that the rapporteur, a member of a centrist group like me, knows what I am talking about when I talk about the diversity of opinions within a group.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u63	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u64	It is unfavorable, even though I recognize the diversity of opinions within a group. We have opted for fairly flexible governance. Many requests could therefore be met for decisions taken in times of crisis. However, this flexibility must be left to the governance body – the Conference of Presidents – and trusted rather than rigidizing the rules of procedure. Every time we want to add constraints – we will come back to that during this discussion – it is to the detriment of the flexibility that we wish to leave at the Conference of Presidents.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u65	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 47.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u66	Mr Zumkeller has just mentioned the diversity of opinions within a small group. What can be said when it comes to non-attached Members who, as is the case at the moment, are sometimes more numerous than Members from small groups? There are currently 25 non-attached Members. There are fewer members of the Democratic and Republican Left Group, such as La France insoumise and IDU and independent groups. I do not, of course, claim that all non-attached Members share the same political ideas or belong to the same current; But if there existed, within a responsible institution such as the National Assembly, and as it is in the Senate – I am sorry to break the nail, but that is the reality – a representative of the non-attached MPs, who would be appointed or, why not, elected by all of them, he would be given a sufficiently important responsibility to pass on the information to all the others. There is equality between Members of Parliament, if only with regard to our constituents. You know that when they vote for a Member, they do not wonder whether or not he will be part of a group, simply because they cannot know when they vote. When they voted for you, colleagues from the Republic on the move, they could not know that you would be ultramajoritarian.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u67	Thanks for closing.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u68	When an elector votes for a Member of Parliament, he or she chooses him or her as a person and not as a member of a group. A non-registered Member of Parliament cannot therefore be a second-rate Member of Parliament. That is the meaning of my amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u69	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u70	Mrs Ménard, I will not allow myself to be confined to a debate which would be to ask whether there is a two-speed organisation depending on the Members. No, it doesn't exist. All MPs are elected members of the nation and have the freedom to join a group or not. Taking into account the political configuration, the text obviously takes into account all these situations. In consulting the preparatory work, I found, for example, that during the pandemic, non-registrant MPs had been able to speak in question sessions in the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u71	Luckily!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u72	So we are not at all in a two-speed system. Let's not caricatur the situation. Each Member is free to join a group or not. Some choose not to belong to any of them, and therefore not to be registered. Every Member present here has a full and complete place. I refuse and find it shocking that it can be insinuated that we would like to see some Members as second-class members. It's out of the question and not true. The opinion is therefore unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u73	Mr. President!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u74	I think the House has understood you, Mrs Ménard, but you have the floor – for a maximum of two minutes, I remind you.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u75	Thank you, Mr. President. First, by refusing to have unregistered MPs represented at the Conference of Presidents, as is the case in the Senate, a de facto category of MPs who do not have the same rights as others is created. Secondly, it seems to me that, at the very beginning of the first confinement, it was not initially foreseen that non-attached Members, like those who belong to a group, would be able to vote remotely. This was subsequently corrected, after discussion with the President's office – which I suppose can confirm.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u76	Mr Michel Larive has the floor to support Amendment No. 90. Mr President, can this amendment be presented together with Nos 91 and 92?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u77	No, Mr. Chairman, because they deal with completely different issues. Amendment No 90 is intended to ensure the physical presence of at least two Members per group in committee. The measures taken to adapt the activities of the National Assembly during this health crisis create problems for several parliamentary groups, as has already been said. When only one Member is allowed to sit in committee, it is difficult not only to maintain a presence at all meetings, but also to assume sole responsibility for the defences of amendments and debates for several hours in a row. We therefore believe that it is necessary for at least two Members to be allowed to sit in committee. Mr rapporteur, you said earlier that such a measure might "rigidify" the regulation. On the contrary, I believe that it would create flexibility. It would make it possible to remedy an impossibility. You choose not to solve this problem. That's too bad. For you this would not change anything since you have a large majority and substitutes. So you wouldn't be in danger. For small groups, on the other hand, the functioning of the Assembly would be much more satisfactory.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u78	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u79	I will give an opinion on this amendment and on the next two, even if they are a little different. With this proposal, we make the choice of flexibility and trust in specific governance. If the Conference of Presidents were to decide, in particular circumstances, to limit participation to one Member per group, it would be a measure taken at the last end. The text, as drafted, provides that this decision should be left to the discretion of the Conference of Presidents. As soon as it is possible to welcome several Members per group, it is obvious that this is the option that will be chosen. On the other hand, the change that we made with this text, in relation to the situation we experienced during the crisis of the covid-19, is to take into account the principle of proportionality. We wanted to reaffirm this principle, which is not to apply a mathematical rule and to count literally, but to translate the political configuration into the Chamber. The opinion is therefore unfavourable on these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u80	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u81	I am very much in favour of this amendment tabled by Mr Larive because it must be understood that, on a piece of legislation that contains many articles, there is a division of labour in committee between Members who have worked more on a particular article. This is not a problem for Members of the majority, many of whom are in committee, but I can testify to incredible situations, linked to the maximum number of Members admitted according to the total number of their group: a Member is waiting in the corridor for his colleague to leave, without knowing exactly what time the debate on his article is going to take place, and it also applies to the public sitting. I think you are really too closed, Mr rapporteur, to this type of amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u82	I call Mr Michel Larive to support Amendment No. 91.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u83	It is intended to set a minimum level of attendance at public meetings and committee meetings. The motion for a resolution seeks to adapt the activities of the National Assembly in the event of an exceptional crisis, but it must be ensured that these adjustments ensure that the Assembly's role is not even more restricted than it is today. In this respect, a gauge too limited in session and committee would necessarily undermine the quality of our work. We therefore propose to set a minimum gauge of 50% of the total number of Members for public sittings and, for committees, the total number of their respective members.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u84	I call Mr Michel Larive to support Amendment No. 92.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u85	Another measure of flexibility: this amendment proposes that a Member should be able to attend a committee meeting even if he is not a member of the committee. As my colleague Chassaigne has said, it happens that none of the members of your group can replace you, which means that the same Member will be able, with your text, to stick to it from nine hours to midnight – and that also applies to the House, by the way. You have to breathe at some point, get a little airy. The measures taken to adapt the activities of the National Assembly during this health crisis create such problems for several parliamentary groups. When only one Member of Parliament is allowed to sit in committee and the pace of review of a text or hearings accelerates, it is really difficult to maintain a group presence at all meetings – a fortiori when they overlap. We therefore propose to remedy this by allowing Members who are not members of the committee, in accordance with the gauges of presence, to go there to take part in the debates.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u86	The rapporteur expressed an unfavourable opinion. Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u87	I have also experienced the situation mentioned by this amendment in practice: the only Communist Member of the Commission who cannot be present, another Member of the Group had to change his committee in order to follow the examination of the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u88	No! Not at my place!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u89	Oh, yes, I've lived it! This may not be practiced in all of them, but then we should clarify what is happening, Mr President. I can give you a very concrete example: I was asked to change my commission to be able to participate in another, and all this to make the change again the following week... You can imagine the circus! More flexibility would be needed because in that case it is not possible to work properly.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u90	All Members can attend the work of all the committees, I would remind you: only the vote is reserved for the members of the committees. Mr Philippe Gosselin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u91	I thank you, Mr President, for reminding us that the Rules of Procedure allow every Member to attend any standing committee, but that he cannot vote on his behalf unless he is a member of it after he has been appointed to the Official Journal, i.e. after an official change of committee. This is an additional difficulty in times of crisis, but there are others in the ordinary functioning of our assembly. Beyond these arguments, which may seem narrowly legal, I doubt that the regulatory amendment proposed here is likely to satisfy fully, on this point, the Members of smaller groups, who, because of their small numbers, must be on all fronts – which is probably even more difficult in times of crisis. It would be good to ensure, as far as possible, fairness and equality between parliamentarians, even if I defend, my dear colleague Emmanuelle Ménard, the existence of groups because they are the preferred way of organising parliamentary democracy. We cannot aggregate 577 individualities, even if their democratic legitimacy is not at stake, it is obvious. Therefore, beyond this reform of our mode of operation in times of crisis, I think it would be really important to find ways and means to answer the questions raised by President Chassaigne, Michel Larive and Emmanuelle Ménard.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u92	Mr Michel Zumkeller has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u93	I confirm what President Chassaigne has said, because it has also happened to the members of our group. In normal times, of course, all Members can attend the meetings of all the committees, but in this time of crisis some committee chairmen refuse entry to colleagues who are not members of them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u94	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u95	This may be due only to an interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, but we too have experienced it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u96	They're sectarians!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u97	The Chair of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u98	With regard to the functioning of the Law Commission...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u99	That's not a good example!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u100	...– the only one I really know, my dear colleague – beyond this period of crisis that we have known since March and beyond the letter of the Rules of Procedure, it is above all flexibility and common sense that must be the rule. What is more important in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure is the total number of people present in the room in terms of health conditions: if there is room, we are not on top of the number of Members present in each group, including, of course, for small groups, whether it is inconvenient France, the GDR group or the others: when they need to have two Members present, the chairman of the committee obviously lets the two colleagues in, whether they are members of that committee or not. This is really called common sense, and I believe that all the committee chairmen of the National Assembly are showing common sense in this period of health crisis. In any case, that is how we should function.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u101	Mr Michel Larive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u102	I am delighted that the Committee on the Rules of Procedure is exemplary, but in times of crisis we have explained how this is going. And if, in addition to calling for common sense, the practices we are talking about were to be included in the regulations, everyone would be even more pleased.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u103	Mr Michel Zumkeller has the floor to support Amendment No. 4.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u104	In return for restricting access to the proceedings, it appears necessary to temporarily amend the limits for the submission of written questions and written contributions so that Members can ask more and table more.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u105	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u106	This amendment seems to me to be fully satisfied because the measure it proposes is part of the toolbox. Your suggestion has therefore been heard, my dear colleague, but it can only be activated by the Conference of Presidents in the event of a crisis and in the way it will specify. Unfavorable opinion, therefore, unless you withdraw your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u107	I call Mr Michel Larive to support Amendment No. 93.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u108	It is based on recent news, particularly in hospitals. Paragraph 3 of the motion for a resolution provides for the use of remote voting in exceptional circumstances, which raises several questions. The explanatory memorandum explains that two types of balloting are likely to be conducted remotely: "votes on the whole text and those held on government statements made pursuant to article 50 (1) of the Constitution. » However, the article remains silent on the field of the elections concerned. This lack of precision is detrimental because, as I said in the general discussion, if other types of voting are excluded, as stated in the report of the working group which initiated this motion for a resolution, why not clarify the potential scope of remote voting? On the other hand, technical obstacles pose a risk to the proper conduct and security of the ballot. The report of the working group refers to the different practical arrangements for distance voting, with voting being possible at a given time, on the basis of solemn votes, but with the risk of technical shortcomings which would prevent some Members from voting when necessary. Opening the vote on a time frame would partly solve the problem, but would facilitate acts of piracy. Recent cyber attacks on hospitals across the country are a harsh reminder that we are underprepared. In view of the current state of our computer security systems, this amendment calls for the deletion of paragraph 3, which provides for the possibility of remote voting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u109	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u110	This is an extremely unfavourable opinion for several reasons. First of all, if you raise a real problem, that of the risk associated with the use of tools for distance voting, a real subject that should not be overlooked, I would like to point out one point that has not yet been mentioned in our debate: the Constitutional Council, which will either validate or not validate each of the provisions of the new regulation, is, in order to paraphrase Mr Chassaigne, the supreme guard. Of course, there could be fear of cyberattacks, of votes diverted by the cunning, but such manoeuvres would obviously not resist the wise and scrupulous eye of the constitutional judge. And then I point out that the toolbox is also made to avoid rigidizing the rules of procedure. I will take a simple example: our working group led by Mounir Mahjoubi on digital tools has led us to advocate that all distance voting should be about public elections, because it makes it possible to reconcile simplicity and solemnity – indeed everyone has insisted that the vote should retain, despite the distance voting, a certain solemn character. We can very well imagine, for example, that at 15:30 we proceed to the vote and that the result remains displayed for a few minutes so that each Member can exercise democratic self-control, which would allow the chairman of the sitting, in case of hacking or blatant manipulation, to cancel the vote – obviously –. But this is a toolbox, not a rule of procedure that would make the whole procedure rigid. I stress that we have really worked on the concrete, realistic and pragmatic nature of the proposed measures to ensure that the very important issues that you raise can be resolved. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u111	Mr Michel Larive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u112	I hear what you are saying, Mr rapporteur, but you have not revealed to us the content of this toolbox. And I'm even more worried than before when you say that it is the Constitutional Council that will guarantee the security of the vote!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u113	No, I didn't say that!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u114	It's not his job at all. He will check the constitutionality of the voting procedure, but not his safety. He's not the one who'll see if there's a flaw at the time of the vote! We can go back to a dubious vote in the sitting, but what will happen at a distance? No, really no, the Constitutional Council cannot guarantee the security of the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u115	I call Mr André Chassaigne to support Amendments Nos 108 and 110, which can be put together.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u116	We propose once again, in this case in paragraph 3, that the possibility of adapting in exceptional circumstances the methods of deliberation and voting in our Assembly should be strictly regulated. I repeat: it is not reasonable to leave the majority, according to the majority rule, to decide alone to limit the rights of Members. Mr rapporteur, to take up a formula from General de Gaulle who has come back to me, you jump like a cabre by repeating "majority fact", as if it were an intangible rule. However, the majority fact already has three exceptions, since a president of a political group may object to the start of scheduled legislative time – this happened to me in the previous legislature –, to the simplified examination procedure and to the legislation in committee. Why, in this case, are you so closed without taking into account the risks that this may represent? I appeal to my colleagues in the other groups, whether they are members of the Republican Group or my Socialist comrades, because on this point we find ourselves with the members of the IDU and independent groups and France unsolicited. I do not understand that in the name of the sacrosanct majority – who knows exceptions – we can leave this enormous risk to run: tomorrow another majority with another functioning could make decisions that would jeopardize the proper functioning of our assembly. I'm calling: it's not serious. It is not my nature, but I will not vote for the text if we do not provide for a right of opposition. If at least two group presidents oppose this, as my withdrawal amendment proposes, I do not see that such serious decisions can be taken for democratic exercise in this House.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u117	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u118	I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the amendments to the Rules of Procedure are decided on the basis of the majority fact. So it doesn't matter what we decide today: if a crazy majority arrives tomorrow, it will amend the regulation in the same way as we are doing; It will be able to vote for a total change in the Rules of Procedure by rewriting everything it wishes.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u119	It's not the same!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u120	I just wanted to respond, in the mirror, to your argument of the arrival of a crazy majority. More fundamentally, do not put my position on account of the rigidity of an autistic rapporteur to a debate that we have had for hours. Let us be clear: I do not propose an absolutely closed idea without wanting to break up; It is the result of the balance that has been found, in particular between the majority and the Republicans group. With Philippe Gosselin, we debated a lot, and this was also the case in the LaREM and Dem groups. Should we invent a new rule? Finally, we found a balance by proposing that we stick to respect for the majority fact. According to the rules of the majority, we will vote on this balance. It is an outcome and not a refusal to engage in dialogue which, I believe, has gathered far beyond the benches of the majority.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u121	Amendment No 97 by Mr Aurélien Taché is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u122	I have two identical amendments before me, Nos 94 and 106. I call Mr Michel Larive to support Amendment No. 94.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u123	The purpose of this amendment is to amend the re-visit clause to provide for a more frequent consultation of the Conference of Presidents. The motion for a resolution seeks to adapt the activities of the National Assembly in the event of an exceptional crisis, but it must be ensured that these adjustments do not further restrict the role of the Assembly in relation to what it is today. A re-visit clause, as provided for in the motion for a resolution, is therefore essential. On the other hand, the diversity of crises covered by the article requires a more frequent consultation of the Conference of Presidents: the situation could change very quickly and involve revisions and adjustments. We therefore propose to seek the opinion of the Conference of Presidents on the maintenance or modification of decisions every week and not every 15 days.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u124	Amendment No 106 by Mr Dino Cinieri is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u125	That's an unfavorable opinion. Mr Larive, your amendment is almost satisfied since the Conference of Presidents meets traditionally every week and each political group can include, by asking the President of the Assembly, a point of reflection on the agenda. We are simply setting a minimum, but this does not exclude, if the pace is to be more sustained, the possibility for each political group to request the inclusion of a debate in the Conference of Presidents.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u126	Mr Michel Larive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u127	Mr rapporteur, all our discussions show that, even though we are trying to improve the text, you are not changing your stance. You said it yourself: every week, the Conference of Presidents meets; Why, then, could she not review and change the situation every week?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u128	She can!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u129	That's a position you're taking. Why not include it in the text? We make proposals and your arguments, which are contradictory to your positions...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u130	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u131	...doesn't suit me at all.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u132	Amendments Nos 101 by Mr Dino Cinieri and 9, 7 and 8 by Mr Le Fur, which may be subject to a joint debate, are to be defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u133	Mr Le Fur's Amendment No 17 is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u134	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 77.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u135	I propose to supplement Rule 19 of our Rules of Procedure with a paragraph which would read as follows: "Members who are neither registered, related nor administratively attached to a group shall form an administrative meeting represented by an elected delegate within it. The administrative meeting shall be constituted for the purpose of managing it in the form of an association, chaired by its delegate and composed of the Members who form it. » Of course, I did not invent this wording: it is the exact recapture of the third paragraph of rule 6 of the Rules of the Senate, where non-registered parliamentarians are cared for. Indeed, the working conditions of non-attached senators are more flexible and comfortable than those of non-attached members, since the former even have a budget to pay a part-time member of Parliament, which is obviously not the case for non-attached members who do not have access to any of the advantages conferred on the groups. This amendment would make it possible to remedy this.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u136	[[The Chair of the Law Commission smiles]] It should be recalled that, traditionally, the Senate is not the main source of inspiration for the Assembly. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u137	Despite all the wisdom of our honourable senators, I would like to say two things. First of all, we are dealing with a whole series of amendments unrelated to the functioning of the National Assembly in the event of a crisis. It is not by ideological posture, but simply out of respect for the moral contract that I have passed, including with all opposition groups, that I will give an unfavorable opinion to all the amendments which do not deal with the subject for which I have been assigned. However, out of respect, I will respond very briefly to the amendments tabled. Mrs Ménard, there is nothing to prevent non-attached Members from meeting in a group that they could call "technical group." This was the case in 1993: the non-registered had formed a group.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u138	Mr Philippe Gosselin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u139	As I said earlier, I am not particularly in favour of recognizing the existence of groups of non-attached Members; We're either a member of a group or we're not registered. Nevertheless, I hear that a number of electoral constraints make it sometimes impossible to meet in a political group. This is the case for Mrs Ménard and other colleagues, and it is a difficulty that everyone has in mind. Even if we do not draw our inspiration from it, it is still rather curious that one of the two chambers allows this type of organization and not the other. This raises several questions for the jurists in matters of parliamentary law and equal means between the parliamentarians of the two chambers. That is true, sometimes there are other mysteries, particularly as regards the inadmissibility of certain amendments; truth below the Pyrenees, error beyond. We'll probably have to look at these little mysteries one day.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u140	Let me remind you that our Rules of Procedure allow for the establishment of a technical group...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u141	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u142	... which is equivalent to what is called an administrative meeting in the Senate. Between 1993 and 1997, there was a "Republic and Freedom" group which brought together personalities from a wide range of sensitivities.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u143	Very different!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u144	This enabled them to have common administrative resources. This subject is therefore better dealt with here than elsewhere. Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u145	Mr. Speaker, allow me a little clarification: non-registered senators do not need to form an administrative meeting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u146	Well, in the House we have to!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u147	Yes, but it's a size difference! The administrative meeting is set up automatically, and this is not the case in the Assembly. Even though he is not entirely in favour of the fact that our assembly is made up of 577 individuals and that it is attached to the principle of political groups, I agree with Mr.Gosselin: how can I explain that non-attached senators have greater working facilities than Members of Parliament when the National Assembly is the strong house, since it is it that holds the last word?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u148	We have understood the argument, we are not going to spend the evening on this subject. Mr. David Habib has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u149	[[The Chair of the Law Commission smiles]] Mr President, I have no interest in extending our work. Very clearly, one of the difficulties we face in this Parliament is the number of groups. Any mechanism that would encourage the formation of groups would run counter to the organization on which we founded our parliamentary democracy. For having had four legislatures, I can say that I have never seen so many material difficulties add up, and all this because there are nine groups. As a matter of responsibility, we must measure the effects of the infringement of representation in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u150	Mr Jean-Charles Larsonneur has the floor to support Amendment No. 95.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u151	The aim is to allocate the examination of the substance of the defence agreements to the National Defence and Armed Forces Commission. I have noted that this is not an amendment relating to a period of crisis. However, if there are legislative riders, I do not believe that there are regulatory riders.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u152	No, there isn't!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u153	I would therefore like to introduce this amendment in principle. The defence agreements are discussed in substance by the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Defence Committee is seized of them only for its opinion. In view of the technical nature of the subjects dealt with and the areas of expertise favoured by each of the two committees, it would seem appropriate to entrust the examination of the substance of these texts to the National Defence and Armed Forces Commission.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u154	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u155	It is unfavorable, even though I am personally very much in favour of a reflection on the subject, knowing that all this cannot be done without consultation: if the Constitution limits the number of permanent committees to eight, we have full freedom to work together on the limits of their respective fields of competence, on their organisation and possible merger.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u156	Mr Jean-Charles Larsonneur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u157	Thank you, rapporteur. We shall therefore continue our reflection.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u158	I call Mr Cinieri to support Amendment No. 20.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u159	Mr. Marc Le Fur is the first signatory of this amendment, which is intended to provide, by decision of the bureau of a commission, for the distribution on screen, during a meeting, of images or texts. During hearings, for example, slideshows accompanying the speech(s) of the speaker(s) could be distributed rather than paper documents.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u160	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u161	What is requested is already completely possible: the amendment is 100% satisfied. If it is not withdrawn, I will give an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u162	Mr Cinieri, do you maintain the amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u163	If he's satisfied, I'll take him off.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u164	I have before me two amendments, Nos 102 and 18, which can be discussed jointly. I call Mr Cinieri to support Amendment No. 102.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u165	As a result of the reduction in the number of staff assigned to the reporting service, it is becoming increasingly common for written records to be replaced by the mere posting of videos of committee meetings. While the posting of these videos can be understood in order to facilitate the general public's access to parliamentary proceedings, it cannot replace, in particular for the work of Members and their collaborators, the publication of a full written record. The purpose of this amendment is therefore to make it mandatory to publish a written record of the work of the committees within a maximum of four working days.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u166	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u167	Mr Cinieri, you have the floor to support Amendment No 18.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u168	Filed by Mr. Marc Le Fur, it is intended to make the written record of committee proceedings mandatory, as is the case with those of the sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u169	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u170	First of all, I would like to point out that all the legislative work of the committees is, as such, the subject of a written record. On the substance, then, this question is asked on many benches: we can work on continuous improvement and dialogue on the subject with the service of the session. However, this issue is not part of an amendment to the Rules of Procedure on the organisation of the Assembly in times of crisis. Unfavorable opinion. I again insist, because it is important, that any minister's hearing or legislative work be the subject of a written record.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u171	Oh, no! Not all auditions!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u172	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u173	These two amendments are extremely timely. Since the beginning of the legislature, we have discovered the absence of the written record of a great deal of committee meetings. That's amazing! If we want to communicate, we can't be content with videos. Many of our fellow citizens, in rural areas as well as among the elderly, do not have access to this type of communication. Mr President, we must take this subject in arms: it is no longer possible!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u174	I agree!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u175	I started by saying to my collaborators who explained to me that there was no report for a meeting: you can't find it! It took me a long time to realize that, in many cases, there was no longer a written record.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u176	Mr Philippe Gosselin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u177	I totally agree with what has just been said. In the world of communication that is ours, I understand very well that we can use videos. I am using them myself, like other colleagues, especially to communicate a little about brief speeches. But what we do, the art, the law and the democracy of Parliament, is not just communication, so much so; This is a very important substantive work. The fact is that, in recent years, the written traces, those that remain, which will be useful tomorrow and the day after tomorrow for other parliamentary work, which will be used to evaluate the law beyond the record of the public sitting published in the Official Gazette, which will be a tool for historians and constitutionalists, are becoming poorer. I understand the rapporteur's negative opinion, but beyond this amendment to the Rules of Procedure, we are dealing with an issue that goes beyond all political divisions, that of access to parliamentary work not only by parliamentarians themselves but also by our fellow citizens, researchers and lawyers. This subject is far from annoyed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u178	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u179	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u180	The amendment has nothing to do with the motion for a resolution, but it is very important. We discover, year after year, that the number of committee meetings that are the subject of written proceedings is decreasing. This is very damaging to our democratic life. The videos are great, but nothing replaces the writing. You can read a written document at any time, and then not everyone has access to the internet permanently to view videos. I would add that we do not always want, when we are calm, to broadcast a sound. No matter what, writing is indispensable and, since the French Revolution, all debates are based on writing. I repeat the request made by our colleagues: all committee meetings must be the subject of written records. We must return to that functioning. I imagine, Mr President, that this has a cost, but it is indispensable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u181	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u182	I urge you, above all, not to vote for these amendments in this text – it would be aberrant, asymmetrical and totally contrary to the consistency of our legal work – but we must indeed reflect on this very real problem.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u183	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 76.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u184	It is intended to supplement the first paragraph of Rule 47 of the Rules of Procedure with the following words: "as well as a representative of Members who do not belong to any group. Non-attached Members shall determine the arrangements for the appointment of their representative. » I understand that you are upset about this, but I would like to point out that non-attached persons do not enjoy the same administrative and structural advantages as parliamentary groups. They have the opportunity to ask only a very small number of questions to the Government – each unregistered MP can hardly ask one question a year, which means that his or her power of control over the action of the Government is very limited. The icing on the cake: non-attached MPs with no "parliamentary niche", so they have no chance of seeing one of the many bills that they are tabling come to fruition. Again, this raises the question of the representation of all the French in our assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u185	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u186	Unfavorable opinion. I have already answered on this subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u187	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u188	I am in favour of all these amendments relating to non-attached persons, which I voted in committee. Mr President, I really think we should start thinking about this, especially since we do not know how the size of the groups can change: tomorrow, non-attached Members may not wish to join a group whose positions do not correspond to their political commitments. We need to think together to ensure that the non-attached people of today and those who may be sitting tomorrow are not second-rate Members.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u189	I call Mr Gosselin to support Amendment No. 126.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u190	I know in advance what is going to be answered, but I am putting the subject on the table: our Assembly has more and more parliamentary groups – one less for some time, but one more since last spring, and this can still change a lot – which has an impact on the "parliamentary niches", the days of parliamentary initiative. One sitting day per month is in principle reserved for these niches, but the parliamentary calendar is thus that each group, regardless of its size, has fifteen members – the minimum number necessary to form a group – or that it has one hundred and five, like the Republican Group, only one day per session. It is, of course, too little and it does not respect the proportionality of the representation of the groups which the motion for a resolution takes into account. This subject is therefore closely linked to our agenda. The amendment seeks to reason at the level of the sitting rather than at the level of the day – one day consisting of three sittings – which would ensure more fluidity and proportionality.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u191	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u192	Unfavorable opinion, for the reasons set out above.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u193	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 40 and 112. I call Mr Cinieri to support Amendment No. 40.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u194	It is intended to draw up the second paragraph of Rule 49 of the Rules of Procedure: "Each group shall have in the general discussion a speaking time of 10 minutes for one or two speakers. A five-minute speaking time is also allocated to a Member who does not belong to any group. » The resolution to amend the Rules of Procedure of our Assembly, adopted by the Assembly on 4 June 2019, too severely restricted the general discussion of the texts while putting on an equal footing the groups and non-attached Members. As I have just indicated, the purpose of this amendment is to allocate to each group in the general discussion ten minutes for a maximum of two speakers per group while reserving five minutes for one non-attached Member.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u195	I call Mr Gosselin to support Amendment No. 112.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u196	The aim is to return to one of the elements of the reform of the 2019 Regulation. Some of its aspects were positive, no one disputes it,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u197	Excellent reform!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u198	... but it also had many excesses. By wanting to put groups and non-registrants on an equal footing – this time, our colleague Emmanuelle Ménard can be there – we cut everyone's head a bit. Today, the proportionality of the representation of each other has no place in the allocation of speaking time in the general discussion. The amendment aims to return to a more equitable and balanced situation by avoiding equality that turns to egalitarianism.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u199	What is the opinion of the committee on the identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u200	I haven't changed my mind since 2019: I was rapporteur for the motion for a resolution at the time and I didn't feel like I had "cut heads". I am against these amendments both in terms of form and substance.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u201	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u202	Mr rapporteur, there may be some contradiction between telling non-attached persons that they only have to join or form a group and limiting the expression of a group to a single word in the general discussion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u203	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u204	The Group of the Democratic and Republican Left, which I chair, has eleven Communist MPs and five Overseas MPs. On some subjects, they may want to express positions that we do not share, which is not possible when we have only five minutes for one speaker. If each group had ten minutes and the possibility of allocating five minutes per speaker, this would allow for a much more diverse expression that could help in the composition of groups of technical dimension like ours – we have, on the one hand, a sensitivity, and, on the other hand, several Members who may have different approaches.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u205	I have before me three amendments, Nos 124, 128 and 48, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 124 and 128 are identical. Amendment No 124 by Mr Patrick Hetzel is being defended. Mr Aurélien Taché has the floor to support Amendment No. 128.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u206	It relates to the "programmed legislative time" procedure, introduced in 2008, which allows for a maximum time limit for the examination of the whole text in order to avoid parliamentary obstruction. In my view, however, it has far more disadvantages than advantages. Whenever this procedure has been used, the quality of the debates and the legislative work has suffered, especially at the end of the discussion, as the examination of the last articles is systematically undermined. Moreover, when a group has exhausted its speaking time, it can no longer speak, although it can obviously have a thousand good reasons to do so. I would add that this procedure makes things very complicated for non-attached Members. Taking the example of the recent examination of the bill to uphold the principles of the Republic, which had been the subject of this procedure, the non-attached deputies were given ten speakers during the general debate, so they did not have a single minute left to defend their amendments. We do not have to appreciate my views or those of Mrs Ménard, but I believe that on a text like this we had things to say and amendments to defend, and that democracy would certainly have been better if we had been given the opportunity to do so. I therefore propose to delete the procedure from the scheduled legislative time.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u207	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 48.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u208	Mr President, I will not be surprised if you fully agree with Mr Taché on this point. I just want to give you an example, since we are quoting the bill against separatism: seventeen deputies of La France insoumée, three hours thirty of speaking time; Twenty-five non-attached Members, fifty minutes of speaking time. In July, at second reading of the bioethics bill, 30 minutes of speaking time for non-registered MPs. What is the concrete result of this? As Mr Taché pointed out, at the best, at the end of the general discussion, there are four or five minutes left to defend some of the amendments. In general, we do not reach the end of the discussion of Article 1, and we are obliged to remain silent. It's one thing. But, moreover, if we want our amendments to be considered, we are obliged to stay in the Chamber and wait for things to happen by raising our hands and saying, 'defended, defended', in the best of cases. I understand that it is not too disturbing for the groups, but you can imagine that it is very frustrating for a non-registered Member to stay on his bench for 15 days until the end of the text, as was the case with the bill against separatism, and to be there only for his amendments to be considered, without being able to say a word and without participating in the discussion, except, from time to time, on the occasion of a point of order, when he is allowed to do so.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u209	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u210	There is no method of expression superior to the others, nor a procedure that would have only qualities or defects. Having said that, I am a fervent advocate of scheduled legislative time. I have seen, from the perch, the emergence of debates that have made it possible to really evolve texts, when the groups chose to invest thirty minutes, fifteen minutes of their time to go through a discussion and try to bring about a consensus, which is less possible in the rigour of the ordinary procedure. The scheduled legislative time is an immense freedom; It is sometimes intoxicating, which means that each group must use it wisely. The question of non-attached Members is a separate subject, although important, and I understand that the scheduled legislative time does not satisfy you. Having said that, I am sorry that our colleague Le Fur, who voted for the creation of legislative time scheduled for 2008, is now against it. I think it's a great tool that needs to be used wisely. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u211	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u212	Mr President, when you deliver a speech, I have noted that you are often going to feed yourself in a good way from former parliamentarians like Clemenceau, like Jean Jaurès, like Victor Hugo. And, out of curiosity, I've consulted the speeches you're quoting. But today, a Jean Jaurès, a Clemenceau, a Victor Hugo could no longer express themselves in the same way.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u213	Yes, I do!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u214	These speeches, of course long, but which pass the sap of our country and democracy through a word that allows us to express things well, with the scheduled legislative time, we can no longer hold them...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u215	On the contrary!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u216	...or else we eat our time, and then we cannot discuss the amendments that we want to support.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u217	Mr President Chassaigne, you are right to repeat these speeches, but I also urge you to take up the number of amendments there were at the time!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u218	Maybe the number of groups, too!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u219	Mr. David Habib has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u220	That is true, Mr President: it is not the general debate that presents difficulties, it is the number of amendments. In the absence of an agreement with the Constitutional Council, it is our collective capacity to organise the tabling of amendments that is being consulted, and we will not stalemate a discussion between us – or a constitutional reform – on the issue. I am absolutely opposed to scheduled legislative time. What makes the parliamentary debate interesting is our ability to interrupt, sometimes even vehemently; It's our ability to trade; But it's not that a monologue succeeds another monologue. On the other hand, contrary to what Mr Waserman has just said, I have rarely seen groups targeting a particular article to devote the bulk of their time to it. It is a view of the mind often used to justify the scheduled legislative time. I heard a few minutes ago, Mr. Taché praises the merits of the European Parliament: the scheduled legislative time may be worthy of the European Parliament, but it is not worthy of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u221	Mr Philippe Gosselin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u222	I am divided on this legislative time, too. The scheduled legislative time may be useful to prevent a debate from getting bogged down under the pressure of an immeasurable number of amendments, since that is its raison d'être. But, as the rapporteur rightly pointed out, we need to have a good use of scheduled legislative time, and it is rather this reproach that has been made to us in recent times: some debates have not been conducted to the end because some subjects have focused attention – quite rightly most often, and perhaps sometimes in a somewhat unfair way, but it is also the passion and the strength of the debates. We should take stock of what has been done for almost ten years in the legislative time programmed to return, not to the status quo ante, but probably to more balance, in order to allow Parliament to deliberate under more favourable conditions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u223	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u224	[[Exclaims on all benches]] That's exactly the opposite. Take the bill that reinforces the principles of the Republic – I was looking at the figures on the last texts: you had three thirty hours of speaking time; You had an hour and seven left at the end. Precisely, the scheduled legislative time is freedom! If Hugo – I think he would have been in Modem, if he had been with us today...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u225	It's very risky as an appreciation!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u226	...but if he had been to the GDR group, he would have had an hour and seven more speaking time. The scheduled legislative time is freedom, freedom to make beautiful speeches to Victor Hugo; Do not hesitate, it is made for this, and you will not be confined to the five minutes of the general discussion or to the two minutes of the defence of an amendment, which, I understand, form a more narrower carcan.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u227	He would've been unregistered!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u228	I call Mr Cinieri to support Amendment No. 42.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u229	This amendment by my colleague Le Fur aims to strengthen the rights of opposition groups in the context of the scheduled legislative time procedure by granting each opposition group chairman the right to prevent the use of this procedure once in a session.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u230	I have before me three amendments, Nos 88, 113 and 96, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 88 and 113 are identical. I call Mr Cinieri to support Amendment No. 88.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u231	The combination of the accelerated procedure and the scheduled legislative time leads to an excessive reduction in the time for parliamentary discussion. Therefore, the purpose of this amendment is to exclude the possibility of using scheduled legislative time when the Government decides to use the expedited procedure.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u232	I call Mr Gosselin to support Amendment No. 113.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u233	To limit untimely slippage, we invented, a few years ago, the scheduled legislative time. We just talked about it; Its use is sometimes complicated. But if, in addition, the accelerated procedure is used, it is the belt and the straps – allow me to be trivial but, since this debate is broadcasted in video, the expression may work better by saying it than by writing it, to resume a previous debate... You realize that Parliament is being locked up in a funnel-discussion that actually leads it to a non-discussion. The amendment aims to limit the cumulative effects of scheduled legislative time and the accelerated procedure in order to restore the full lungs to each speaker and to bring back, beyond the oratory art, greater powers within the Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u234	I call Mr Le Fur to support Amendment No. 96.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u235	The subject we are concerned about is the combination of two procedures, each extremely severe for the House: the scheduled legislative time and the urgent procedure. The question did not arise a few years ago, when the emergency procedure was used more rarely, when there was a real urgency. Since then, we have seen a drift in this procedure, which is used systematically or almost. What's going on in the emergency procedure? There is only one reading in each of the two rooms. We saw it in the last debate that took place two weeks ago on a text that changed its name several times – each of which will include: the two procedures were used, the scheduled legislative time and the emergency procedure. Let us say that the groups have exhausted their speaking time before the end of the debate: certain articles would never have been mentioned or debated in the House because of the urgency procedure. It's a real problem. It is a deprivation of the public expression of Parliament, and in particular of the Assembly, on provisions that may be essential. It is not because articles bear the ultimate numbers of a law that they are less important than others, and it seems to me quite abnormal to combine the two procedures. Each of them can understand itself, each has its own logic, but the conjunction of the two – and I say it by calling on your authority, Mr.President – poses a real problem.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u236	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u237	We have discussed at length the scheduled legislative time. Unfavorable opinion, for the reasons already set out.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u238	That would require some answers!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u239	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendments Nos 86 and 49, which can be put together.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u240	These are two back-up amendments. Amendment No 86 deals with the state of emergency and Amendment No 49 deals with the state of emergency, but both have the same aim, which is not to allow recourse to the legislative time scheduled for these emergency procedures. In both cases, the Government directs the nation's policy autonomously and very dirigistly vis-à-vis Parliament, most often by decrees, ordinances or decrees, thus limiting the prerogatives of Parliament. It seems to me essential in this situation not to further weaken the democratic debate. That is why I believe it is essential, in a state of emergency or a state of health emergency, to suspend the procedure of scheduled legislative time, which is seriously detrimental to the debate. [[Smile on several benches]] And if I may add a word, Mr President, it seems to me that Victor Hugo, with the spirit of independence that characterized him, would probably be an unregistered Member and that he could not have spoken.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u241	Don't make the dead talk, their word is already so beautiful. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u242	Unfavorable opinion for all the reasons already set out on the scheduled legislative time.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u243	Mr Michel Zumkeller's amendment No 62 is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u244	Mr Michel Zumkeller has the floor to support Amendment No. 5.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u245	It touches on an important subject which concerns us, namely the place of our ultramarine colleagues and representatives of the French abroad. It is already not easy for them, in normal times, to exercise their mandate, and the possibility for them to go to the Chamber is now being reduced. We therefore hope that our working conditions will allow these deputies – at least their own – to participate remotely in the votes and questions to the Government, which are, I would remind you, topical issues. Our ultramarine colleagues sometimes come for fifteen days and do not return for a month; If a topical issue emerges on a Sunday, it is difficult for them to ask a topical question a month later. It is simply a matter of adapting our working methods – there are beautiful screens in the Chamber – to allow our ultramarine colleagues and representatives of the French abroad to ask questions to the Government on Tuesday from their constituency.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u246	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u247	The issue deserves further work, but it goes beyond the scope of our debate on the Assembly in times of crisis. The subject has appeared on several occasions; it is relevant, and the difficulties are understood. Nevertheless, I am very committed to the physical debate in the Chamber and I personally do not support the idea of making remote interventions a systematic practice, which would de facto allow ultramarine Members to stay at home too much and make the choice of whether or not to come. It is a good idea, to work, but surely not to validate today, since the motion for a resolution is limited to cases of crisis.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u248	Mr. David Habib has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u249	Apart from the fact that you have confined yourself to the crisis situations with these provisions, these concern, if I may remind you, all Members. I am elected to a department located 800 kilometres from Paris, where there was no train or plane between March and May. Until June, I had to drive to Bordeaux, in order to take a train to Paris, at least when there were. This is an opportunity for me to highlight the bankruptcy of these two French companies, SNCF and Air France. Mr Zumkeller deals with a real problem; I hope that we will work on these questions, and I welcome your answer, Mr rapporteur. If it is necessary to promote the Assembly's presence, where it is impossible, solutions must be found.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u250	I have two identical amendments before me, Nos 43 and 114. The debate is with Mr Le Fur in support of Amendment No 43.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u251	It aims to restore the possibility, removed by the reform of the 2019 Regulation – adopted under the conditions we know – that several speakers from a group will speak on the same article. This allowed for a real, concrete discussion before the amendments were discussed. Since this suppression, a drift has appeared. Indeed, Members have fully understood that, since they can no longer speak to the Rule, the only way to have a right of speech is to table amendments. That's the obvious absurdity of the system! Prior to that, Members knew that they had the opportunity to speak cold on the articles. They are now tabling amendments to allow for two minutes of speaking time. It's like the Shadoks! I would therefore like to return to simpler, more obvious provisions: let us give each Member an opportunity to speak to each article, even if we find a formula to avoid excesses, which would be logical. What is not, in any case, a priori prohibiting the expression of Members.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u252	I call Mr Gosselin to support Amendment No. 114.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u253	I am in the same state of mind as my colleague Marc Le Fur. We are witnessing an inflation of the number of amendments. Perhaps the many important texts that deal with sometimes complicated subjects are leading to table a large number of them – which is quite legitimate, and corresponds to part of the work of Parliament – but sometimes some amendments are tabled by Members only to benefit from speaking time, because they can no longer speak more generally about the text. Prior to the reform, what was known as the "DG" – general discussion – on the articles allowed parliamentarians to lie down, alert on a subject, before fighting foot on foot on a paragraph or article. It was not necessary for the speakers concerned to take the floor every two minutes on their amendments. Even if, of course, a clause should be added to limit excesses, the debate would gain in fluidity if we retained these possibilities.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u254	What is the opinion of the committee on these two identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u255	He's unfavorable. I invite you not to repeat the game of the reform of the 2019 Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u256	We'd have to do it again!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u257	...but, frankly, it would be an abuse to make it bear the responsibility for inflation of the number of amendments...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u258	We say that she is partly responsible!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u259	... – but you will avoid this pitfall, I am sure.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u260	And you, you will avoid the pitfall of distorting our words!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u261	Mr Marc Le Fur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u262	I came back from our dear western province, Mr. President, to speak on subjects that, even if they appear technical at first glance and will not arouse the passion of opinion, determine the conditions for the exercise of our mandate – which is not nothing. We are mandated by the people to express our positions. Although of course the majority principle prevails, the opposition retains rights, if only the right to express itself. However, since the beginning of the pandemic crisis, which unfortunately continues, Parliament's ability to speak has been reduced, and this is a real subject. I refer you to an article by Mr Ferdinand Mélin-Soucramanien – which I have allowed myself to pass on to all of our colleagues. This specialist in constitutional law, we can no longer recognize, is familiar with this assembly, of which he was the ethics officer. Its text, published in a parliamentary law review, confirms that, since the constraints imposed by this disease, we have lost some of our ability to debate. That is precisely why we must reintroduce certain elements of common sense into the Rules of Procedure, as Mr Gosselin pointed out.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u263	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 44 and 115. I call Mr Le Fur to support Amendment No. 44.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u264	Amendment No 44 is being defended!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u265	[[Protests on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Perhaps you're not interested, ladies and gentlemen? After all, I understand, you have not entered parliamentary mechanics. For my part, I've been practicing it for some time, and I'm interested in her.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u266	Please don't question your colleagues, Mr. Le Fur.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u267	They're calling me.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u268	Defend your arguments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u269	That's exactly what I was planning to do, before these arrests. The amendment is intended to allow our colleagues who wish to do so to give their views at the end of the debate on an article, whether on their own behalf or on behalf of their group – membership in a group that does not necessarily involve voting discipline, at least among us. It must be allowed; excesses can be combated. Mr. Darmanin's recent bill contained very important articles; It would have been logical for both of them to be able to speak at the end of their examination, after the opinion of the rapporteur and the member of the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u270	Mr Gosselin's amendment No 115 is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u271	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 45 and 116. Mr Le Fur's Amendment No 45 is being defended. I call Mr Gosselin to support Amendment No. 116.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u272	It is important to give us a right of reply, a right of reply, like the one established for questions to the Government, which is exercised with varying degrees of happiness – we need to be able to manage our time, to be timely, to be agile, and we do not all have the right reflex at the right time. In any case, a right of reply must be opened in a more general way in a public meeting; that is the purpose of this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u273	What is the opinion of the committee on these two identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u274	The reflection is interesting, but this is not the subject of our discussions today; unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u275	Amendment No 50 by Mr Le Fur is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u276	Identical Amendments Nos 33 by Mr Marc Le Fur and 117 by Mr Philippe Gosselin are being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u277	Amendments Nos 51, 52, 53, 54, 55, 56 by Mr Le Fur and 61 by Mr Zumkeller are being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u278	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 38 and 118. I call Mr Le Fur to support Amendment No. 38.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u279	It aims to strengthen the functions of co-rapporteur, which would be reserved for members of the opposition. Whereas in the past only one or two rapporteurs were appointed for each text, there are now more rapporteurs, each of whom has a right to speak. This legitimate tendency had begun under the previous legislature, with greater recourse to the functions of rapporteur-general. The appointment of a co-rapporteur from the opposition would be systematized; This amendment could, of course, be amended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u280	I call Mr Gosselin to support Amendment No. 118.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u281	These identical amendments give you an almost unique opportunity to strengthen the rights of the opposition. A majority, whatever it may be, is distinguished by its respect for the groups that make up it, but also by its ability to inspire respect for the opposition. You could in any case make an interesting democratic gesture that would allow oppositions to be more associated with the reflection on the law and its writing. Currently, co-rapporteurs, usually from the opposition, are already appointed for certain law enforcement reports. In order to better respect the oppositions, we propose to institutionalise this system before the adoption of the texts, which would make it possible to better work the texts upstream and improve the quality of the texts.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u282	What is the opinion of the committee on these two identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u283	These proposals are extremely interesting and should be worked out, reflecting on the introduction of speaking time constraints for the co-rapporteur and the rapporteur. It is, of course, impossible to adopt them today, as I repeat, we are debating a targeted amendment to the Rules of Procedure concerning the organisation of work in times of crisis.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u284	Mr Marc Le Fur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u285	I welcome the rapporteur's statements. That being said, we are coming to the end of the legislature and we must already prepare for the future – we know that these provisions would not apply immediately. It is therefore our duty to make arrangements that may not concern us – for no one knows what their personal fate will be after 2022. What other opportunity will we have to revise the regulation, since the timetable is already terribly crowded – I am speaking under your control, Mr. President – and the Government has difficulty arbitrating between multiple projects?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u286	The opportunities, you just have to create them!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u287	Let us revise the Rules of Procedure today to allow further debate. Instead of being fed by the multiplication of the amendments, this would be done by statements on the articles, or those of the co-rapporteurs, and would therefore remain serene.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u288	We shall therefore put these two identical amendments to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u289	I asked a question!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u290	Of course, but the committee has already given its opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u291	Mr Le Fur's amendment No 57 is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u292	I call Mr Cinieri to support Amendment No. 10.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u293	This amendment provides for the possibility for a Member to object to the financial inadmissibility of an amendment under Article 40 of the Constitution to challenge the decision, and to request a written explanation before the bureau of the competent committee or the National Assembly, depending on the stage of the legislative procedure during which it was taken. The Bureau seized would decide as a last resort.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u294	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u295	He's unfavorable. While cases of inadmissibility require rigorous analysis, they often give rise to impressions, not based on the facts. In this regard, the decision is based on precise, objective criteria, following a very rational instruction organized by the services of the meeting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u296	Mr Philippe Gosselin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u297	The issue of inadmissibility has been a regular one in recent months. I carry out my third mandate and I do not remember such importance: I do not say that she has never landed, but from now on she returns regularly. Many of us do not understand the objective reasons for the inadmissibility of some of our amendments. This phenomenon involved hundreds and hundreds of amendments to the draft law that confirmed respect for the principles of the Republic: whole subjects were thus removed from the parliamentary discussion, because they had supposedly no direct or indirect connection with the subject matter. Who are we laughing at? Getting the concrete elements that justified the decisions on inadmissibility does not seem abnormal to me: it is not a matter of blocking the system, as some amendments are rightly declared inadmissible, but we fall into an excess which will soon condemn every amendment not to pass the ever narrower meshes of the inadmissibility net. This would seriously harm democratic health.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u298	I call Mr Le Fur to support Amendment No. 21.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u299	The arguments are identical: we are sometimes surprised at certain decisions taken on the basis of articles 40 or 45 of the Constitution and do not give rise to any written explanation. We ask for a written justification of the inadmissibility decisions. This measure seems all the more necessary since certain amendments are adopted at first reading before being rejected a few months later. Explanations are needed because the constitutional provisions have not changed in the meantime. The written explanation will also alleviate the difficulties in the public sitting, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u300	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u301	I would like to reaffirm my full confidence in the Chairman of the Committee on Finance, Eric Woerth, who rigorously applies Article 40 of the Constitution and who systematically explains his decisions when he is seized – I remember sittings, which I chaired, during which the dominant opinion in the Chamber assured that Article 40 had been flouted when President Woerth's decisions were explained and founded. Mr Gosselin, we must not forget the Constitutional Council's now much greater propensity to repossess provisions which it equates with legislative riders. In doing so, the Council reminds us of our duty to respect Article 45.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u302	Of course, but we're in Stockholm syndrome.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u303	The question is not the substantive proximity, direct or indirect, between the subject of the amendment and that of the text, but that of the legistic link: there are many examples in this respect. The opinion is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u304	I call Mr Le Fur to support Amendment No. 37.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u305	He's pursuing the same idea. Do not hide, rapporteur: you are referring to President Woerth to send us back the ball, but we know how this is going. President Woerth, like all his predecessors, does not have much time to endorse decisions taken by administrators, that is, by the administration of the National Assembly and not by politicians. It is not an insult to directors to point out that time is limited and technical questions: we can understand that it works this way, but we ask for written explanations. As everyone knows here, the decisions taken on the basis of rule 40 – we will see later on for rule 45, the reform of the Rules of Procedure dating only from 2019 – result in objective distortions between the Assembly and the Senate, which accords itself more freedom. Members thus deprived themselves of an opportunity to express themselves, this self-censorship being added to the censorship of the Constitutional Council. Self-censorship is worse than censorship because it deprives us of real debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u306	Amendment No 58 by Mr Le Fur is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u307	He's unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u308	Mr Philippe Gosselin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u309	In the continuity of what has just been said by Marc Le Fur, the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Council is constant and even tends to tighten. Mr President, you reminded every Member of this requirement at the end of 2020. However, this case law can be discussed and there is no need for self-limitation. We fall into a sort of parliamentary Stockholm syndrome: fearing the possible censorship of the Constitutional Council, we are censoring ourselves. Let's dare! It is not so dramatic to get hit by the Constitutional Council, the control exercised by it being merely proof of the proper functioning of our institutions. It is not a question of writing texts whose every line would be contrary to the Constitution, but let us stop restricting ourselves! By self-limiting ourselves, we will end up cutting the branch on which we sit, that of national representation, because we will no longer be able to express ourselves – at least the question of speaking times will be resolved in this way.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u310	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 64 and 119. Amendment No 64 by Mr Le Fur is being defended. I call Mr Gosselin to support Amendment No. 119.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u311	He follows the same logic. The 1958 Constitution rationalizes parliamentarism to the extreme: Article 37 enshrines the regulatory field as well as that of ordinary law and Article 34 lists the subjects for which, by exception, a law is required. As if that were not enough, the Constitution had established a Constitutional Council to, among other things, ensure the distribution of powers. And as this is still not enough, our own regulation stands as the watchdog of executive prerogatives. The amendment proposes to stop self-limiting and loosening the vise a little: in order to continue with the metaphor, it aims to lengthen the leash without leaving complete freedom for parliamentarians.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u312	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u313	You are making an error of interpretation: Article 41 of the Constitution is applied very little and the motion for a resolution seeks to clarify, in Article 93 of the Regulation, the procedure for applying the inadmissibility of a text or amendment which does not fall within the scope of the law.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u314	That's an example!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u315	Of course, but the opinion is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u316	Amendment No 65 by Mr Le Fur is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u317	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 79 and 121. I call Mr Le Fur to support Amendment No. 79.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u318	It makes it possible to discuss the application of Article 45 of the Constitution: before the reform of our 2019 regulation, the inadmissibility of the amendments was decided on the basis of Article 40, of a financial nature; It is now Rule 45 that is opposed to the authors of the amendments. The inadmissibility of an amendment penalises the removal of its object from that of the text under consideration. However, Rule 45 provides that amendments which are even indirectly related to the text are admissible. One could therefore consider that even a loose bond is sufficient, but practice goes in the opposite direction. We are told that Article 45 is as objective as Article 40; If it is relatively objective to incur an expenditure or reduce a revenue, deciding whether there is a link between the subject matter of an amendment and that of the text is much more subjective and follows much more vague criteria. The amendments declared inadmissible under Article 45 are proliferating. Mr President, I am committed to the right of amendment, which is one of the fundamental rights of parliamentarians: everyone says that they respect it, but many provisions restrict it, since this new use of Rule 45 is the latest. This is an appeal amendment because I see the logic, which I regret, of our rapporteur, but I invite you, ladies and gentlemen, to restore us the capacity to act. There is no equivalent of Articles 40 and 45 in other parliamentary democracies: at some point we have to shoulder our responsibilities.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u319	I call Mr Gosselin to support Amendment No. 121.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u320	Section 45 has become a cutlery. We need to loosen the stride and give a wider interpretation of the indirect link between the amendment and the text. Without this room for manoeuvre, the texts are very monolithic. Non-attached Members do not have the same rights as those belonging to a group, except by setting up a technical group – a possibility that you mentioned a few moments ago, Mr President. Care must therefore be taken to ensure that all Members have wide access to the right of amendment: this is a guarantee for oppositions and parliamentarians.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u321	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u322	The opinion is unfavourable. Mr Le Fur, do not blame me for respecting the moral contract that we entered into together at the launch of our working group, which states that we are dealing only with the functioning of the National Assembly in the event of a crisis. Do not take the conciseness of my answers for a lack of respect, whereas it is only the strict application of this moral contract. In fact, I will be brief in my next speeches.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u323	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 66 and 120. I call Mr Le Fur to support Amendment No. 66.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u324	The contract you are referring to, Mr rapporteur, may bind you as to the nature of your answer, but not as to its size: you can go to the bottom of things, it seems to me that we are here for that. Amendment No 66 seeks to ensure that the author of an amendment declared inadmissible under Rule 45 can request a written justification for that decision, so that an exchange can take place between the Member and the committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u325	Mr Gosselin's amendment No 120 is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u326	I have before me three amendments, Nos 6, 125 and 98, which can be discussed jointly. Mr Michel Zumkeller has the floor to support Amendment No. 6.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u327	It also concerns the application of Rule 45: you tell us, Mr rapporteur, that decisions on the admissibility or inadmissibility of amendments are governed by specific rules: we do not doubt them, so explain them! We have tabled amendments to the Social Security Financing Bill aimed at better combating social fraud in order to finance social security. These amendments have been declared inadmissible under Article 45: if there is no link between social fraud and the PLFSS, we must explain! We may be opposed to such amendments, but we cannot declare them inadmissible: it is incomprehensible! Believe me, no one's seen any legislative horsemen there! Explanations would shed light on and avoid resubmitting the same amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u328	Mr Patrick Hetzel's amendment No 125 is being defended. I call Mr Cinieri to support Amendment No. 98.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u329	The purpose of this amendment by my colleague Marc Le Fur is to allow a Member to request and obtain a written and reasoned explanation when one of his amendments is declared inadmissible, in order to increase the transparency of the a priori review of admissibility. In addition, parliamentarians will be able to make informed corrections to the drafting of their inadmissible amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u330	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u331	I understand your request for explanation, Mr. Zumkeller. The Chair of the Law Commission, present here, has never refused to give an explanation of an inadmissibility decision made under section 45. The chairpersons of committees shall respond to all requests for clarification. Let us not give the impression that the presidents are doing an administrative and distant treatment of these subjects!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u332	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u333	Not on article 45!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u334	Mr Philippe Gosselin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u335	[[The Chair of the Law Commission laughs]] Without defending the Chair of the Committee on Laws, I once again confirm the rapporteur's statement concerning her. However, the Law Committee is not the whole Assembly, and not all of them do this work. The special commission to examine the bill to uphold the principles of the Republic eliminated 300 amendments prior to the committee's consideration, and 800 before the committee's consideration. I personally requested a written explanation of the inadmissibility; I didn't get the slightest answer, not even an acknowledgement of receipt. I readily admit that you may be right in most cases, especially those under the standing committees, but comparison is not right: the answers are not exhaustive, so much so, and the requests are sometimes ostensibly rejected.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u336	I call Mr Le Fur to support Amendment No. 82.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u337	It will be understood by all those working with us on the drafting of the amendments. We are taking time, especially when we do not belong to the committee before us, so we have less thorough reading of the text. We need to draft the amendments, which leaves little time to solicit and obtain the signatures of our colleagues. The amendment that I am defending is intended to allow the addition of co-signatories after the deadline for tabling amendments has expired, without, of course, changing the operative part or the summary statement. It is already possible to withdraw co-signatories. This is a matter of common sense: on Thursdays and Fridays after seventeen hours, our employees multiply in vain. I support this provision all the more as the Senate applies it: when the filing date has passed, it is not possible to amend the amendment itself, for the sake of equality, but it is possible to add co-signatories. This is a good step, because it is not neutral to join an amendment, and some colleagues are in favour of it, for many reasons. This provision is more a matter of common sense than of our regulation, and its application would not be complicated. Rather than stress our employees, let us allow them to register co-signatories after the date of tabling the amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u338	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u339	Our employees are indeed stressed enough so that we do not add to their burden. The idea is very interesting and deserves work on its application. However, it is not possible to adopt this measure now: the opinion is unfavourable for today.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u340	For today or tomorrow?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u341	Mr Philippe Gosselin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u342	I am pleased that, after amendment, we were getting satisfactory answers. You will have serious elements for a future reform – if not this majority, others will be able to do it. Marc Le Fur, Michel Zumkeller and others provide them to you. We're holding them. That is something to improve the rights of the opposition and the functioning of our assembly; We're looking forward to it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u343	I have before me three amendments, Nos 89, 11 and 12, which can be discussed jointly. I call Mr Michel Larive to support Amendment No. 89.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u344	It is intended to introduce a minimum period between the publication of the latest version of a text and the deadline for tabling amendments. This proposal is made necessary by the gradual deterioration of parliamentary working conditions. Indeed, the health crisis has produced untenable situations for parliamentarians. For example, Act No. 2020-290 of 23 March 2020 emergency to deal with the covid-19 epidemic was introduced on 18 March, for consideration in the Senate the next day, in a commission in the National Assembly on Friday, 20 March, and in a public session on 21. How, in such a short period of time, can the national representation satisfactorily analyse a text composed of 22 articles, in constant evolution? It is essential to ensure the quality of parliamentary work in times of crisis. To this end, we believe that a minimum period of two working days is essential between the publication of a text and the deadline for tabling amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u345	I call Mr Le Fur to support Amendments Nos 11 and 12, which can be put together.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u346	Mr. Larive said this in his own way: we are more and more bound by very short deadlines, too short, between the tabling of the text and the deadline for tabling the amendments. I share his analysis. Indeed, the amendments made by the 2008 constitutional revision and the evolution of the regulation have not been taken into account. In the past, the situation was very different: the text was frozen, we were reviewing the text of the Government or the bill in session, the commission was issuing opinions without changing it. From now on, the text is rewritten during the examination in committee, sometimes substantially. That's good. Commissions are doing their job. However, sufficient time must be given to get to know it, especially when one is not a member of the committee, in order to draft the amendments which are considered necessary. This reflection does not concern certain texts, in particular the budget: the committee does not modify the government project. But the committees are making profound changes to the other texts: it is necessary to give the parliamentarians time to draft the amendments on a text which is sometimes very different from the text originally tabled.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u347	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u348	The deadline shall be set by the Conference of Presidents. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u349	I call Mr Le Fur to support Amendment No. 22.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u350	He's dear to me, Mr. President! It concerns the second deliberation; I am confident that he will bring up a lot of memories to some colleagues. We look at a text, the articles are adopted, but a provision does not please the greats of this world, especially the Government: a second deliberation is organized, usually at the end of the debate, around midnight, an hour or two in the morning, people are tired, the atmosphere is sometimes tense. The Government has mobilized its majority. Patatras, the votes cast after important debates are called into question. In my view, second deliberation should be conceivable only to coordinate articles, for example; It is inappropriate to go back on measures.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u351	Brittany will complete us!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u352	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u353	The second deliberation has existed for decades, it has been present almost throughout the Fifth Republic: it is a safeguard. I suggest that we not end 50 years of tradition without a detailed analysis of the consequences. Unfavorable opinion – for today.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u354	Mr Marc Le Fur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u355	Don't play the keeper of the temple. The situation can change. New developments have taken place. I have a little experience of this assembly: there was a time when second deliberations were rare; Now they happen. I would also like to have the statistics, Mr rapporteur – you certainly have them in store, and you will provide them to us.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u356	Mr Marc Le Fur's amendment No 81 is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u357	I have before me two amendments, Nos 13 and 103, which can be discussed jointly. Amendment No 13 by Mr Le Fur is being defended. I call Mr Cinieri to support Amendment No. 103.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u358	The work of the Joint Joint Committees – CMP – is too opaque. They should be made public, like other committee meetings.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u359	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u360	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u361	Mr Marc Le Fur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u362	Joint Joint Committees are a special feature. Normally, everything is public in parliamentary life, and gives rise to an account. However, the CMP is not public, and only the result is known, namely the text adopted at the end of its meeting, which is sometimes substantially amended. I believe that our advertising rule should apply to all the work. I defend this amendment all the more firmly, Mr President, because I know you are sensitive to the issue of the influence of lobbies. However, the CMP is their preferred target: lobbyists know and call the seven representatives of the Assembly and the Senate. If we don't do anything about it, there's no point in singing that we fight them. The best weapon against them is not to reduce the public debate, which is healthy. On the other hand, opacity and small groups – twice seven parliamentarians – make the fortune of some. I denounce these elements here; I hope not to be the only one, and that one day we will put an end to what constitutes an aberration in the light of our logic of publicity of the debates.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u363	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u364	The transparency of the CMP is an important topic,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u365	One more!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u366	...which requires thorough work. I'm very sensitive to it. I have just tabled a report containing 25 proposals on lobbies, some of which have already been adopted at the last Bureau meeting on 20 January. You're right, we have to do this work, perhaps for our successors. The subject is complicated because transparency should not prevent consensus, but there may be solutions. We must work with our colleagues in the Senate, which we did not, of course, do before this sitting. The opinion cannot therefore be favourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u367	Mr Marc Le Fur has the floor. There are 20 amendments left, I shall adjourn the sitting at the scheduled time: you will return at twenty-one hours!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u368	I'm here, it's not a problem for me.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u369	Think of the others!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u370	I am naturally optimistic: I hear your answer, and understand that it does not close the door. I read your work on lobbies, perhaps too quickly: I did not see the question of the CMP,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u371	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u372	...which is crucial. The lobbies act on individuals rather than on large groups. Departments are therefore a preferred target, while collegiality protects us. But in CMP, collegiality is very attenuated, with only two times seven parliamentarians. However, the lobbyist and the one who is sensitive to his arguments are protected by the lack of transparency. The MP who sits on the CMP will always be able to argue that he is not the one who defended such a measure. The situation is aberrant. On the other hand, it makes sense to work with the Senate. Based on their experience, senators are very present in the CMP, whose device they know how to use. We must do the same, and we must ensure the role of the lobbies. Advertising protects us: it is necessary to publish the debates!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u373	Amendment No 14 by Mr Le Fur is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u374	I call Mr Le Fur to support Amendment No. 23.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u375	Defendant.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u376	It's about...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u377	Same thing.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u378	No, on the contrary, this amendment is very important because it concerns the revenue levy for the benefit of the European Union, which often corresponds to considerable sums and is the subject of little debate. This subject does not always fascinate our colleagues...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u379	That is not true, there is a specific debate!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u380	...which is a mistake, which we all share.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u381	I call Mr Le Fur to support Amendment No. 24.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u382	He proposed inserting, in the second phase of the first paragraph of Rule 120 of the Rules of Procedure, after the word "group", the words "those assigned to special rapporteurs and draftsmen for opinions". The draftsmen have disappeared somewhat in the current parliamentary logic. I regret this, because it allowed less committed committees than the committee on the merits to give their feelings on various and varied issues, and often prevented the establishment of special commissions. I am asking the question because I remember that the draftsmen contributed to enriching the debate, briefly but clearly expressing the position of their committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u383	I have before me six amendments, Nos 25, 26, 27, 104, 28 and 122, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 28 and 122 are identical. I call Mr Le Fur to support Amendments Nos 25, 26 and 27, which can be presented in a consolidated format.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u384	These amendments deal with written questions, which are one of the ways Members can learn about the administration's activities and obtain answers. As has often been the case, excesses may have occurred, but the answer to excesses is excessive, since the possibility for a parliamentarian to ask written questions has been reduced. I understand that it is necessary to fight excesses, but in any case, while our compatriots are asking us a lot of questions, for example on issues related to the pandemic, we can hardly relay them. On the other hand, the answer to these questions is often very succinct, when it comes to it, which is not always the case. I regret that ministers, their departments and administrations do not always act diligently to answer these questions. It is therefore necessary to use your authority and that of the Assembly to ensure that, as we are constrained in terms of the number of questions, we can at least obtain timely and relevant answers.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u385	I call Mr Cinieri to support Amendment No. 104.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u386	I bounce back on what our friend Marc Le Fur has excellently explained: written questions are essential tools to control the Government's action. They also allow parliamentarians to take up many issues and relay requests from their constituents.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u387	Mr Le Fur's amendment No 28 is being defended. I call Mr Gosselin to support Amendment No. 122.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u388	Written questions are an essential tool for both Members of a group and non-attached Members, which is a good way to make a number of requests public, through publication in the Official Journal. We can now ask 52 questions a year, one question a week, which is very few. One can battle over the number – is the right number 100 or 150? – but, in any event, 52 issues are often insufficient, especially in this crisis period where we have been forced to formulate many additional issues related to the pandemic. Mr rapporteur, we have been considering increasing the number of written questions in our toolbox for a few months now. Unless I'm wrong, it hasn't been done. If the past is obviously behind us, what about the future, since the state of health emergency will not end until 1 June and the crisis is far from over?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u389	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u390	We have actually worked in the toolbox on the written questions: on the threshold of course, but also on the future of pre-crisis issues and on the need or not to prioritize certain issues. There is therefore a whole logic in this toolbox, which will be at the disposal of the Conference of Presidents,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u391	It's independent of the rules!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u392	...which will have the freedom to use it in the event of a crisis.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u393	Mr Philippe Gosselin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u394	It seemed to me that the toolbox was already available and did not require reform of the regulation to be used. I would therefore also like to address the Speaker of the National Assembly so that this gauge of 52 authorized questions can be reviewed in the light of the covid-19: it has been almost a year since the state of emergency was declared, asking many questions. It is therefore absolutely necessary to reconsider this point.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u395	Mr Michel Zumkeller has the floor to support Amendment No. 63.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u396	With regard to the written questions, the most important one is the answer: we all see that we do not often have them. The oldest of us asked many questions before 2014; the absence of an answer could therefore be conceived. The number of questions has since been reduced to 52. I looked at my personal statistics – I'm not asking a lot of questions – and 25% of the questions I've asked since 2017 have still not been answered. Similarly, since 2017, 25% of the questions reported have not been answered. A solution would still have to be found, for example by entrusting a new task to the President of the Assembly – who already has many – asking him to announce once a month, before the question-and-answer session to the Government, the statistics, ministry by ministry.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u397	It'll make us a little bit of poetry...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u398	Perhaps this is a way to change things and to help ensure that parliamentary issues are better taken into account.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u399	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u400	This is indeed an important subject and the President has made progress during this mandate,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u401	No, I don't.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u402	...even if we are not yet at the end of the road. The response rate, 25% within the two-month period, is not satisfactory. It is Parliament's respect that is at stake. Of course, it is not a question of creating an additional constraint for the President of the Assembly, which would be aberrant, but of having confidence in our President to represent us and ensure that the Government can speed up the responses and meet the deadline for a response within two months.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u403	Mr Marc Le Fur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u404	These answers, summary or even absent, reflect the opinion that the average administrator in a department feels about the importance of Parliament's written questions. That's the point. This means that Parliament, in its mind, does not count, and that the administrations place us at a much lower priority than other demands. We must therefore insist on this point. To go through the written answers sometimes, I note that the questions are very precise and interesting, sometimes microscopic, even if that is the objective of the written question, which is not intended to be the object of a huge publicity. The function of the administration is to respond and I note that the answers have been greatly weakened, which is indicative of the relative weight of Parliament in this country.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u405	On the vote on the motion for a resolution, I have a request for a public vote before me by the Group of the European People's Party. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. I call Mr Le Fur to support Amendments Nos 15 and 16, which can be put together.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u406	These two amendments of appeal deal with the question of resolutions, not the one that we are going to adopt, but those that were previously banned from us. While the reform of the 2009 National Assembly's Rules of Procedure has allowed us to vote on resolutions, it is possible to go further by amending the resolutions, as well as a systematic examination by the committees, the discussion being limited to the sitting. We have the opportunity to weigh on a number of issues that are not covered by legislation, such as foreign affairs issues, but which could lead to resolutions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u407	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u408	This is an organic law, so the rules of procedure will not change anything. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u409	Mr Michel Zumkeller has the floor in support of Amendments Nos 59 and 60, which can be presented together.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u410	These amendments seek to find a solution to involve parliamentarians more closely in the drafting of orders. Of course, in some cases, we must act quickly. However, some ministers involve parliamentarians and set up working groups. It would therefore be desirable to formalize such practices.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u411	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u412	The proposal is interesting but cannot be adopted in this text; unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u413	I call Mr Le Fur to support Amendment No. 31.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u414	Following the constitutional review initiated by Nicolas Sarkozy in 2008, the National Assembly's Rules of Procedure evolved in 2009 to allow for law enforcement reports, which is a good thing: it allows us to work on a number of topics and to have a vision that is not only theoretical, but that goes to the stage of law enforcement. The aim is to strengthen this possibility by systematically proposing the presence of a co-rapporteur from the opposition, which sometimes exists, in fact, and would thus be inscribed in the marble.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u415	I call Mr Le Fur to support Amendment No. 34.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u416	The aim of this amendment is to ensure that our activity is not only theoretical, abstract or even somewhat Parisian, but that we have the means to monitor the application of the laws in our constituencies, of which we know the inhabitants, with the help of the Assembly's collaborators. Of course, this possibility cannot be multiplied, but it must exist, if only to enable us to be more precise legislators, as we will have concrete and objective information on law enforcement. Each Member of Parliament has in mind, by receiving people in his or her permanence, that some laws are not enforced and others deserve evolution. We would therefore benefit from not doing this work in an individual capacity, but from systematizing this practice and working on it within the committees, with the assistance of the Assembly's administrators, whose quality, impartiality and ability to accompany us in our legislative tasks cannot be overemphasized.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u417	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u418	Many of us are very attached to this evaluation "at the last kilometer", which Jean-Noël Barrot has defended on numerous occasions: we must experiment and implement it, which requires more time. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u419	I call Mr Le Fur to support Amendments Nos 35 and 36, which can be put together.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u420	You have told us once again of your good will, Mr rapporteur, but should we still set a timetable: when can these changes be made? When will we give time to do this? We have mentioned a few ideas about the evolution of parliamentary life, but we risk reaching the end of our mandate – we have almost reached it, I repeat – without having given ourselves the means to make them concrete.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u421	What is the committee's opinion on these two amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u422	He's unfavorable. The subject should be discussed in other contexts.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u423	I call Mr Le Fur to support Amendment No. 32.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u424	It aims to ensure that a member of an opposition group is systematically appointed to chair the Public Policy Review and Monitoring Committee. In the same way, we had planned that a member of the main opposition group would now chair the Finance Committee. This was, as I recall, one of the major developments desired by President Sarkozy, which was applied even before it was included in the Rules of Procedure. The measure we are proposing would be concrete and effective. If you gave him a favourable follow-up, Mr rapporteur, you would show how diverse you recognize parliamentary life.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u425	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u426	He's unfavorable. I refer you to our discussions on this issue in 2019.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u427	Amendment No 123 by Mrs Anne-Laure Blin is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u428	I call Mr Le Fur to support Amendment No. 85.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u429	The tablet on which the amendments appear is blocked.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u430	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u431	I had to go too fast when I tabled the previous amendments!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u432	Amendment No 85 is intended to amend the title: you propose replacing the words "crisis" with the words "state of emergency".
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u433	We can consider that he is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u434	I call Mr Cinieri to support Amendment No. 105.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u435	It is an amendment of drafting precision. The purpose of the motion for a resolution is to amend the regulation so that our work can be organised not in the event of a political crisis or war, but in the event of a health crisis, like that of the covid -19 that we are going through.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u436	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u437	On the contrary, it is a matter of providing for provisions for several types of crisis; the field is wider than the only case of a health crisis. The opinion is therefore unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u438	We have concluded our examination of the articles of the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u439	We come to the explanations of vote. The next speaker is Mr Michel Zumkeller, for the IDU and independent group.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u440	Our group was waiting for the conclusion of the debate to take a decision. We are in favour of such measures, but we really regret that nothing has been planned to involve non-majority political groups in the decisions taken by the Conference of Presidents in this area, i.e. that a veto has not been introduced in one way or another. That is why we will abstain from voting on the motion for a resolution, with great regret.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u441	Mr Philippe Gosselin, for the Group of the European People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u442	We support the measures put forward to allow the organisation of our work in crisis situations, while regretting that we have not taken into account our many proposals, which tended to strengthen the rights of the opposition – and, in reality, which says the rights of the opposition called the rights of Parliament. The rapporteur said that he had taken note of this. I don't know what he'll do with it and what we'll do with it collectively. In any case, it is certainly appropriate to put our work back on the job.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u443	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u444	I shall put the motion for a resolution to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u445	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 63 Number of votes cast 61 Absolute majority 31 For adoption 56 Against 5
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-01-O1182.u446	Next meeting, tomorrow, at 9 a.m.: Oral questions without debate. The meeting is adjourned.
