ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u1	The next item is the oral questions without debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u2	Mr Nicolas Forissier has the floor to put his question, No. 1482, on wind farms.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u3	My question is for the Minister for Environmental Transition and concerns the development, if not the proliferation, of wind farms in certain departments and regions. Wind energy is part of the energy mix and I've always thought it should be part of it. We could discuss its economic model and the massive public subsidies to this sector, which make this electricity very expensive, financed by taxpayers; But this is not the debate I want to open today. I would rather like, as I said, to address the proliferation of wind turbines in certain departments – notably the Indre, the Cher or the Eure-et-Loir, in the Centre-Val de Loire region – which ultimately undermines the will of the Government and the administration to develop this form of energy. Indeed, there is now a massive rejection of the population in many territories. It would be necessary, and this is the meaning of my question, to consider a pause and decree a moratorium in certain regions – particularly in the Centre-Val de Loire – in order to get around the table and determine what is still sustainable, both in terms of the areas of settlement and the evolution of the security distances. I recall that the perimeter of protection around a wind turbine had been set at 500 metres at the beginning of the installation of these towers, when they were about 80 to 100 metres high; Now they are more than 200 metres long and this distance has not changed. This is the type of question that our fellow citizens are asking themselves and of situations that they no longer accept, especially when they feel they are in front of the fait accompli, to be faced with the roller compressor of promoters who do not hesitate to use all the strings and tricks to impose this movement of wind proliferation, which is going to accelerate. A harmonious establishment of wind farms, including sometimes in preserved landscapes – this is the case in the municipality of La Châtre in my constituency – contributes to each territory taking its part in the fight for renewable energy. But when you get to a multiplication of wind turbines, your landscape no longer offers any perspective, the value of your property collapses and you are obsessed with something that destroys your life – that's the case of many of our fellow citizens – we have to ask ourselves about its development. Seventy per cent of wind farms are now appealed to the administrative court; This figure illustrates public concern. That is why I believe it is necessary to introduce a moratorium on these settlements, at least in certain regions, and to get around the table to define, in a consensual way, what is still possible, by means of interregional consultations – which is not being done enough at the moment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u4	The next speaker is the Minister for Transport.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u5	The minister of ecological transition cannot be present, she asked me to answer you. As you pointed out, Mr President, the multi-annual energy programming (EPP) sets ambitious targets for wind energy, which is a key part of our energy mix. As far as its economic model is concerned, ground wind is one of the most competitive renewable energies: the price of the megawatt hour is currently around 60 euros in the Government's tenders, compared to 80 euros five years ago; As a result of the public support policy and the visibility given to the sector, this cost has fallen significantly, making it one of the cheapest sources of electricity today. The wind energy sector comprises 900 companies and totals more than 20,000 jobs. Another key element is that wind turbines do not use fuel to operate and, in addition to their lower environmental impact, they protect consumers from fluctuations in raw material prices by guaranteeing a fixed cost of electricity produced over 20 years. However, we are aware of the need for a harmonious development of wind farms. Last December, the ecological defence council, chaired by the President of the Republic, decided several measures in this direction: to reduce the luminous nuisances of wind masts – experiments are under way with a view to generalisation; improve the recycling of wind turbines and generalize the excavation of foundations, since the regulations now require the removal of all the foundations from the towers at the end of operation and include minimum recycling targets for their components, which will increase over time. Similarly, there is a need to further improve transparency and consultation – you spoke of interregional consultation – which are at the heart of wind projects and a charter of good practice has been drawn up between the State and the sector. Finally, it will be necessary to achieve a better territorial distribution of wind energy and to better plan its development; regional prefects will determine, in conjunction with the regions and by combining municipalities and intercommunalities, a mapping of areas suitable for wind development in order to secure the achievement of the objectives of the EPP. All these combined actions will enable us to fulfil the objectives of the ecological transition and ensure the acceptance of the people.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u6	Mr Nicolas Forissier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u7	As far as the price of wind energy is concerned, you take back what the ministry of ecological transition has traditionally said, but I am not at all sure that this is the truth; It's the taxpayer who pays, anyway. With regard to the need for consultation with the communities, I repeat that if we want to redefine zoning, we must establish a moratorium in order to be able to speak quietly, especially in areas already affected by an excessive proliferation of wind turbines.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u8	Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor to raise her question, No. 1488, on road traffic in North Ardèche.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u9	Since 1973, the Ardèche is the only French department not to have a passenger train line. This situation has led for more than fifty years to an increase in the use of the car and a sharp increase in road traffic in our department, particularly in the Rhône valley. If the end of the 20th century marked the era of all automobiles, in recent years our citizens' expectations have evolved in favour of more sustainable modes of mobility. Today, the Nord Ardèche is faced with a twofold challenge: to meet this demand for more mobility to the urban hubs that surround the department and to fluidize road traffic in the Rhône valley. To meet this challenge, rail traffic now appears to be the most suitable means of transport, as the train offers a large passenger capacity and has the lowest external costs in terms of CO emissions, air pollution, noise exposure and accidents. Finally, the proximity of our territory to the department of Drôme and its employment areas is the cause of many crossings of the Rhône, while the existing bridges are insufficient to allow the flow of movements. For example, more than 20,000 vehicles run daily between Tain-l'Hermitage, Tournon-sur-Rhône and the many municipalities of the Doux Valley, creating a situation which, day after day, affects the development of the communes centres. The 2015-2020 State-Region Plan (CPER) contract provided for the launch of studies for the Ardèche, in order to specify the conditions and costs for the accessibility of stations throughout the route, their urban integration and the necessary connections with other modes of transport. At present, despite the announcements of the president of the region, the Ardéchois remain waiting for concrete solutions to facilitate their mobility. I would like to draw your attention to the need to include in the new CPER a feasibility study, in order to reopen the right bank of the Rhône to passenger trains. This reopening of rail traffic in Ardèche would allow finally to serve our communes and to fluidize the road movements in our territory. However, I would also like to draw your and the attention of the State to the need for this study of mobility to take account of the problems of crossing the Rhône and the bridges of the Rhône valley for motor vehicles, which many citizens still need in our territories, often far from the main axes. Carpooling or shared vehicle solutions alone will not be able to meet individual travel requirements. We must be able to combine different uses in order to meet the needs of those who have chosen to live in our still largely rural departments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u10	The next speaker is the Minister for Transport.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u11	You're asking me about road traffic in North Ardèche. I would point out that the network serving this territory is entirely made up of departmental roads and local roads, which is why your proposal comes first and foremost under the responsibility of the authorities managing the roads, in particular the departmental councils of Ardèche and Drôme; As an organizing authority, the Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region could also be asked to contribute to this mobility study. Furthermore, I would like to point out that the State has mobilized to improve the service of the territory: the motorway investment plan, approved by the Council of State in 2018, provides for the realization of two half-diffuser on the A7 motorway at the level of the communes of Saint-Rambert-d'Albon and Saint-Uze. The project was presented to the public in a consultation held in September 2019 and my services are organizing the launch of the public inquiry. As far as the rail section is concerned, I am fully aware of the absence of passenger services in Ardèche: studies are envisaged for the reopening of the railway line located on the right bank of the Rhône, between Livron and Le Teil. This project would provide a suitable mobility solution for people on this bank and would reduce congestion in rail traffic on the other bank. This approach is also part of the continuation of the one carried out for the reopening of the line in Occitanie, between Pont-Saint-Esprit and Nîmes. Studies on this operation are thus included in the State-region agreement for the recovery in Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes, signed on 16 January for an amount of EUR 3.2 million by 2022, including a State contribution of EUR 1 million. Finally, in order to allow for a first operational phase by the end of the summer of 2022, the State is supporting the regions by mobilising SNCF network and the public railway safety establishment (EPSF) to speed up safety studies at level crossings, prior to the reopening of the line to safe passenger traffic.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u12	Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u13	As far as the SNCF line is concerned, I would point out that the study under way concerns the southern half of the department, while the north – which starts in Limony and goes down to Teil – has a SNCF network which has been installed for a long time now and that many elected representatives are mobilised in favour of its reopening, which is of major importance, especially since the north of the territory is highly industrialized. As far as State-region plans are concerned, the region must be able to rely on the State to carry out important studies such as that relating to new crossings, because it cannot carry them out without its support. We therefore count on you to ensure that these studies are carried out, in order to determine whether, in the long run, further crossings are still possible. With this in mind, we must continue to travel on these roads which, as you said, are no longer national but departmental and are the responsibility of the department.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u14	Mr Jean Lassalle has the floor to put his question, No. 1484, on the national road 134.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u15	My question concerns a dossier which I have been constantly referring to for 30 years, namely the national road 134, also called at the time E 7, since it was to receive European funds. I don't know if she got a lot, not to my knowledge at least, when I know this subject very well. As you know, Minister responsible for transport, this is an international road that connects France with Spain. The Spanish, as far as they were concerned, benefited a great deal from these European credits, but it is true that their ranking as a catching-up country at the time helped them. Since then, we haven't heard from him. Like those who, in your place, represented the Government when I asked, on two occasions, a question on the subject, you will certainly reply that some appropriations have been programmed for the connection between Pau and Oloron-Sainte-Marie, as well as for the part south of Oloron-Sainte-Marie, more complicated, where deviations must always be made. I know that it is not your fault, Mr.Minister Delegate: you were very young when President François Mitterrand and King Juan Carlos I endorsed the project. The aim was to build or develop a European-level secondary road between France and Spain, as had been done in Puymorens. Unfortunately, these commitments have never been fulfilled. So I asked you for an appointment so that we could discuss the matter; I hope you will give it to me – I have a few years of experience, and this is the first time a minister has not answered me. Alain Rousset, president of the Nouvelle-Aquitaine region, has always refused to include this path in a plan contract, although this would have allowed us to benefit from funding in a natural way. I will mention to finish the issue of Beynac, defended by the president of the departmental council and former deputy Germinal Peiro. After the commitment given by the President of the Republic, the Prefect started work... before being mysteriously transferred. We do not know why the work, which was very advanced, ceased.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u16	The next speaker is the Minister for Transport.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u17	You are asking me once again, Mr Lassalle, about the security work relating to the national road 134 – I praise your constancy. First of all, I would like to assure you that the State is fully committed to the modernization of this road: these are mainly developments that will contribute, among other things, to the improvement of road safety and the living environment of the residents of the national road. More specifically, an envelope of €7 million, financed entirely by the State, was allocated in 2020, under the current State-Region Plan Contract (CPER), to deal with several delicate points of the axis that connects Oloron-Sainte-Marie to the Spanish border. This budget led to the creation of a security facility at the northern entrance to the Aspe Valley in August 2020, and to the initiation of an experimental dynamic signalling system – the work began in April and will last for two years. Further north, the operation to secure the national road between Belair and Oloron-Sainte-Marie will, in 2021, receive funding of EUR 10.5 million under the recovery plan, in order to speed up the commitment of a first section whose preparatory work will begin at the end of the year. I am pleased to confirm that the State has strengthened the resources provided by the CPER: in the context of the amendment – signed on 11 May – to the mobility component of the plan contract, the envelope allocated to the operation has been increased by 12 million euros, to reach 23 million at the end of 2022. Other developments are carried out outside the CPER, such as the abolition of crossing No. 24 in the town of Herrère. This EUR 8.3 million operation is partly covered by the State, amounting to more than EUR 6.2 million. The opening to traffic was opened in February. I am familiar with the subject of Beynac, on which Mr. Germinal Peiro regularly asks me. As you know, we stick to the rule of law, in particular the judgments handed down by various administrative courts in recent months. Finally, I would like to welcome you to the Ministry of Transport to discuss these and other matters.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u18	Mr Jean Lassalle has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u19	I was aware of the funding you mentioned, Minister Delegate. Thank you for accepting me – I hope you will do so quite quickly, before the times change too much. This will be an opportunity to remind you that the project has another aspect: the Pau-Oloron-Sainte-Marie link, which has not advanced.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u20	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor to put her question, No. 1466, on rental evictions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u21	Testimonies of anxiety from people fearing expulsion, I get more and more, whether or not they come from my constituency. Some time ago, I received a long message from a gentleman who said he was speaking to me with shame: with his 875 euros of active solidarity income (RSA), he was unable to pay his rents in 2020 – he first worried about filling the fridge and caring for his children. He regularly repaid a former small rental debt until his activities ceased in March 2020, and he contracted a long covid. Having always discussed with his social landlord, he alerted him to his situation; But, recently, the bailiff has passed. "If I pay my debt, am I still expelled? He asked him: the bailiff explained to him that the lessor was entitled to continue the proceedings. On 15 May, he received a letter from the prefecture confirming that the deportation procedure was under way. Unfortunately, we know the continuation of this kind of situation: the sale of his car, emergency accommodation, family accommodation – and thus, the overoccupation of a dwelling – and even the street. We also know how complicated it is to get back to work. The phases of containment, definity and curfew have highlighted a housing crisis that is already terribly rooted. While the health crisis has not spared the poorest and most poorly housed, it has also caused the precarious situation of tenants who have so far had no difficulty paying their rent, but who have lost their jobs or part of their incomes. All these people had to make a choice: pay their rent or feed themselves and their families – because they have already eliminated the superfluous for a long time. According to a survey by the Directorate of Research, Studies, Evaluation and Statistics (DREES), conducted immediately after the first confinement, 30% of the most modest estimates that their household's financial situation has deteriorated over time. In its annual report on the state of mal-housing, the Fondation Abbé-Pierre notes that "all the actors in the sector deplore that housing has been the great forgotten of the revival, in particular the new construction sector". The report goes on to say: "Rather than helping social donors, who are central actors in helping households preoccupied by the crisis, the government has chosen to keep the LSR levy [reduced solidarity rent] at EUR 1.3 billion a year." There has been no announcement of a revival of a massive construction of HLM housing (moderate rent housing), nor of significant aid for tenants or homeowners. Should we expect another way, when the decline in Personalized Housing Assistance (APL) was one of the first measures of the Macron quinquennium? Associations – such as the Fondation Abbé-Pierre or the National Housing Confederation (CNL), to name but a few – have asked the President of the Republic to extend the winter truce until 31 October 2021. The only answer opposed to them was that each expulsion would be accompanied by a housing proposal or, failing that, accommodation, the time for a more lasting solution to be found. You really have to ignore the situation to dare say that! We know how saturated emergency accommodation is, and how much affordable housing is lacking. You don't measure the scale of the housing crisis! Where will you find to relocate these families? Thirty thousand households are threatened with expulsion, in a context of health and social distress. Will these families join the lot of people sheltered this winter, who find themselves on the street once the winter plan is over? You take the responsibility of throwing thousands of people, including women and children, on the street. The health crisis was quite a pretext for your government to flout a number of rights! Once again, will you distinguish yourself by refusing to extend the winter truce?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u22	The next speaker is the Minister for Transport.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u23	As she could not be present this morning, the Minister responsible for housing asked me to answer you. In the face of the health crisis, the Government has taken exceptional measures to prevent rental evictions; So the winter truce has been extended several times since the first confinement. The Government has been consistent in its priorities: to continue to protect vulnerable and vulnerable populations. If an expulsion takes place after 1 June, it will be accompanied by a proposal for rehousing or, at least, accommodation. Work will also be carried out prior to expulsion, in order to offer social support and a rehousing solution to tenants. It was essential to succeed in the transition to the resumption of a common system of rental evictions: consideration must be given to the situation of small owners, whose rent was an important source of income. We cannot have a white year when it comes to evictions. It is for this reason that the State has committed itself to promptly indemnifying the owners concerned, and that we will abound, as early as July, the compensation fund of the landlords, managed by the prefects. The Government is also stepping up its prevention efforts, prior to the procedure, to reduce the number of unpaid rents. A national fund to assist tenants who were unable to pay their rents due to the deteriorating economic conditions caused by the health crisis was set up with a total of EUR 30 million. In addition, 26 mobile teams have been deployed in large agglomerations to meet people who are furthest from social arrangements and to improve their social support. The Government is therefore fully committed to protecting our most vulnerable citizens, in line with the realities of each of the Territories, and always in a spirit of social justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u24	Mrs Typhanie Degois has the floor to put her question, No. 1472, concerning the Lyon-Turin tunnel.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u25	Lyon-Turin is no longer a project, but a construction site. The stakes are high: in 2019, more than 46 million tonnes of goods passed through the French-Italian border, but only 7.8% took the rail. The course of the 3 million heavyweights has been crossed, with the severe environmental consequences we know. Keystone of the future link, the cross-border base tunnel is to be delivered by 2030. The timetable for the realization of access routes on the French side is, on the other hand, much more uncertain, despite numerous announcements. Declared of public utility in 2013, the new routes – 190 kilometres – between Lyon and the cross-border tunnel in Savoie are essential if we are to preserve the environment and ensure efficient mobility in Savoie and Haute-Savoie. With a view to respecting public funds, a technically more modest – and therefore less expensive – phase of access routes has been favoured. However, the state prefers to invest in the modernisation of the historic Dijon-Modane line to power the future tunnel. But this line is out of reach and not suitable for a massive cargo axis, since it crosses several agglomerations and runs along Lake Bourget, the largest natural lake in France, I remind you; In fact, it leads to the unanimous rejection of economic and political actors in our territory. La Savoie is awaiting replies on the follow-up that the Government intends to give to Lyon-Turin's access. So I have three questions for you, Minister Delegate. First of all, what precise timetable is envisaged to start work on the French access routes leading to the tunnel? In the absence of such works, we will have built a tunnel that will be of no use! Then, why not start work now on the consensus link between Lyon and Saint-André-le-Gaz? Finally, did the State take steps with the European Union to co-finance French access, as the President of the Republic committed himself to it last year?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u26	The next speaker is the Minister for Transport.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u27	You are asking me about the French State's commitments regarding the realization of access to the Lyon-Turin tunnel and, more generally, about this link, which, as you said, is no longer a project but a construction site. This large-scale development will promote a modal shift from road to iron, and will benefit the Alpine valleys from an environmental point of view. The State has repeatedly confirmed its commitment to the implementation of this link, whether during the review of the mobility guidance law, at the Naples summit on 27 February 2020, or with the national recovery plan in September 2020. The project consists of two parts: it comprises on the one hand a cross-border tunnel linking Saint-Jean-de-Maurienne to Suse – its preliminary work is being completed, and more than 30 kilometres of digging have been carried out on the total 164 kilometres of galleries; and, on the other hand, access routes – an approach is under way on the French side, with all local partners, to define a relevant phase of access by 2023. I would like to point out that in this work on access programming it is not a question of calling into question the realization, in the long term, of new lines, but rather of linking with the potential of the conventional line. The mobility guidance law has, moreover, given priority to the modernisation of the latter immediately and €700 million of state funding is foreseen for this purpose before 2027. Several steering committees were held with stakeholders under the chairmanship of the Regional Prefect. Last December and then March, three preferential scenarios were used. The next steering committee will select the preferential phase scenario on the basis of ongoing socio-economic analyses. With regard to European funding, I welcome the prospects offered by the draft European regulation on the Connecting Europe Facility, known as MIE 2.0, for the period 2021-2027, which allows for a maximum co-financing rate from 40% to 55%. The European Union must make firm commitments in this regard. In due course, France will apply for funding at the highest rates in the calls for projects to be launched during the EIM 2.0 period. Like you, Madam Member, I would like Europe to confirm its intentions and to be at the rendezvous of this emblematic cross-border project.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u28	Mrs Typhanie Degois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u29	Thank you for your answer. In Savoie, the great concern is finally to end up with a tunnel without access and that all the money and all the land used is useless. Economic actors and political actors need visibility. They call for the use of the European Union funds and the recovery plan funds to build the follow-up together.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u30	Mr Paul Molac has the floor to put his question, No. 1485, concerning the malfunctions of the MaPrimeRenov' device.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u31	I would like to draw the Government's attention to the malfunctions of the MaPrimeRenov' device. This aid has been in place since 1 January 2020, initially for low-income homeowners. It was reported that 190,000 premiums would have been claimed in 2020. There are several challenges to be addressed. The first is the time limit for payment of the premium. The National Habitat Agency – ANAH – had foreseen that, for files filed between 1 January 2020 and March 2020, the aid would be paid in April 2020. Starting in April 2020, the processing times for files were to be reduced by 15 days for a premium application – notification of the grant entitlement –, by 15 days for an advance application – payment of the advance – and by 15 days for a balance request. However, many households report a delay of several months between the validation of their file and the payment. Indeed, some households in my constituency whose files were validated in January 2020 were still waiting for a payment in December 2020. In this period of crisis, this waiting period has a significant impact on low-income households that have made the advance of renovation work. On the other hand, households complain about the lack of explanation and visibility as to the date of payment of the premium, but also about the complexity of the procedure and the changes in the amount of the premium that sometimes occur after the validation of the file by ANAH or after the start of the work. In response to this, households lack contacts to obtain the necessary information and report significant waiting times for calls. They describe an opaque platform and a need for visibility regarding the payment of their bonus. As far as the malfunctions of the site maprirerenov.gouv.fr are concerned, many uses finally indicate a connection to the personal space temporarily impossible, information entered that is not recorded, links that do not open, etc. So, what does the Government intend to do to remedy these dysfunctions?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u32	The next speaker is the Minister for Transport.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u33	You are questioning the Minister responsible for housing who, unable to be present, asked me to answer you. Launched on January 1, 2020, MaPrimeRénov' has been very successful with the French. First reserved for the most modest households, since 1 January 2021, and thanks to France's revival, it is open to all owners, regardless of their income, whether they are occupants or donors, as well as to all co-owners. The scheme has thus become the main State aid for the energy renovation of housing. As of 17 May 2021, more than 280,000 applications have been submitted and more than half of the target set for 2021 has been achieved, which was between 400,000 and 500,000. Some 188,000 cases were accepted for a total amount of € 540 million in premiums. The platform is undeniably successful, with nearly a million visits per month. It is also important to recall, with regard to malfunctions, that the service was set up in the midst of a health crisis and confinement. Throughout 2020, ANAH made exceptional efforts, cleared up the last delays in training at the end of August and the last delays in payment in mid-December, so that these difficult situations remain marginal – in the order of 3% of cases. To solve these problems, ANAH has set up a task force which, every week, unlocks several hundred files. The undertaking to take over any complete dossier within 15 days shall be kept. For example, more than 75 per cent of the files filed were paid, and the remaining 25 per cent were divided between files filed less than 15 days ago and incomplete files still requiring exchanges with the applicant. More generally, according to an Ipsos survey, 88% of MaPrimeRenov' users are satisfied. The survey also shows that 69% of them would not have done their renovations without this assistance. It is therefore both effective and useful.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u34	Mr Paul Molac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u35	It is because the system is efficient and it is quite in line with the energy transition that I fear that the dysfunctions, which have been numerous in my constituency, will prevent some from carrying out their work. As you know, bad press is faster than good press. Some told me that, while their draft had been validated, some parties had subsequently been declared ineligible. If they had known that, they added, they would not have done all this work, because their budgets are very tight. That is why I want you to pay attention to these malfunctions, because it is the modest households that use this system.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u36	Mr Didier Le Gac, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 1468, concerning the damage caused by the sauercas of the towers.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u37	I would like to draw the attention of the Minister for Agriculture and Food and the Government to the proliferation of tower sauercas in Brittany. The territory of Brittany is strongly affected by the proliferation of this corvid, which causes very serious damage, as this bird digs up seedlings made by farmers. In 2019, the damage caused by this bird was estimated at almost 3 million euros in the departments of Finistère, Côtes d'Armor and Morbihan alone. You can imagine that the farmers in my department are exasperated, especially since at present there is no solution to compensate them. They're suffering a little bit of a double sentence. On the one hand, the Ministry of Ecological Transition explains that it cannot take over compensation for the damage caused by this species since it is protected and since it can only compensate for those caused by highly framed species, such as wild boar, wolf, bear, lynx. On the other hand, the Minister of Agriculture and Food refers to regulatory difficulties and explains that the fact that tower cabbage is a protected species prevents access to the national farm risk management fund. Who can tell us clearly what legislative or regulatory path we can take to allow the state to compensate farmers who are victims of the saucas of the towers, as long as we find solutions to increase the levies? We are working with the Ministry of the Ecological Transition on an adaptive management of the species, but in the meantime there is an urgent need to find a solution to compensate Breton farmers, as Brittany is particularly affected by the proliferation of this bird without knowing why. Again this year, the damage was very important first on the plantation of vegetables – shallots – and now on corn. Breton farmers are really exasperated. We must be able to compensate them in the short term, and then find a long-term solution to eradicate this proliferating species.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u38	The Minister responsible for the city has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u39	Mr. Minister for Agriculture and Food asked you to excuse him for being unable to attend and asked me to provide you with the following answers. The minister is well aware of the damage caused by the sauercas of the towers, particularly in Brittany. The saucas of the towers is a corvide whose population is increasing sharply in Brittany for reasons that would mainly affect the transformation of landscapes and agricultural practices, while being in decline in other regions – this is the case in Ile-de-France in particular – without the causes of this differentiated evolution being well known. A species protected under French and European law, its status nevertheless allows for derogations in order to prevent significant damage to crops, subject to strong justification. In order to gain a better understanding of the numbers and behaviour of the species in Brittany, a study, commissioned by the University of Rennes, was launched in 2020 under the aegis of the Regional Directorate for the Environment, Planning and Housing – DREAL – of Brittany and which we hope to achieve partial results by the end of the first semester. Following meetings between the Minister's Office for the Environment and Agriculture and the Prefects and Parliamentarians, a road map for immediate action and the preparation of an action plan was agreed. This roadmap will be piloted at local level by the DREAL and, in parallel with the implementation of this roadmap, the drafting of the action plan is entrusted to the French Biodiversity Office. Once the plan is completed and validated, its implementation will be followed by a steering committee representing communities, experts, agricultural interests and nature conservation. The composition of this committee should be determined by the Prefect of Brittany. Finally, an agronomic study, led by the Regional Chamber of Agriculture of Brittany, will help to find concrete paths for farmers. Funding is already programmed through the regional agricultural and rural development programme of the Brittany region. The aim of this study will be to assess solutions to avoid too much damage in the light of existing means and to identify other regulatory solutions. With regard to compensation, according to the jurisprudence of the Council of State, only damage caused by the three species of the large predators, the wolf, the bear and the lynx are subject to a State compensation scheme. There is no scheme of aid to compensate for this type of damage caused by other protected species in a geographical area which is sometimes larger than that of the sauercas, which is also subject to derogations. In any event, this compensation would not solve the financial question for farmers, since farmers could still not sow without fear of the crops being destroyed by the sauercas. The solution is the joint implementation of sampling exemptions and preventive measures for both saucas housing and farms. In addition to the financing of the various studies already mentioned, the provision of compensation by the State is therefore not envisaged.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u40	The next speaker is Mr Stéphane Travert, to put his question, No 1473, on the cider sector.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u41	My question is for the Minister of Agriculture and Food, and I thank you, Madam Minister responsible for the city, for being able to answer it. The cider sector continues to be particularly affected by the health crisis. The closure of the out-of-home catering – RHD – and out-of-home catering – RHF – sectors for many months, coupled with an unprecedented decline in sales in the retail sector, has led to unwarranted prospects and legitimate concern for a whole industry. Of course, the actors in the cider sector welcome the increased access to cross-cutting measures to support businesses. The accumulation of difficulties allows us to consider new support measures to accompany the sector. The organisations asked the Minister of Agriculture to preserve the remaining amount of the 2020 measures in anticipation of complementary needs. The elected representatives of the cidrical territories are mobilized around the sector which bears witness to the richness and diversity of our terroirs. It is the image of quality agriculture that contributes to the sustainable development of our territories. We need to get out of the crisis, but we also need to work on new solutions at a time when the future common agricultural policy (CAP) is emerging, with the dairy sector taking a very limited place there today. Aid which contributes to the upscaling, maintenance and development of environmentally friendly production methods, certification and traceability procedures, the setting up of crisis management mechanisms could be put on the table and put to consideration. During its discussions with the Directorate-General for Agriculture and Rural Development, DG AGRI, which is a Directorate of the European Commission, the sector perceived as a willingness on its part to open up reflection on these issues. I know that the Minister for Agriculture and Food is very attached and to the vitality of maintaining exceptional channels because of quality. What new measures would make it possible tomorrow, in the European context of the new CAP, to maintain at the best level a sector which has several hundred years of know-how and which is the pride of our terroirs, beyond the zones of wine production?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u42	The Minister responsible for the city has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u43	The Minister of Agriculture and Food asks you to excuse him for not being able to answer your question. He asked me to give you some answers. The health crisis that we have been going through for over a year has a significant and persistent impact on many agricultural and agri-food sectors, including the dairy sector, as you said, faced with the cessation of out-of-home consumption and the cessation of public events for several months. The cider sector benefited from the Government's immediate cross-cutting arrangements to preserve businesses and, in particular, farms: the solidarity fund, partial activity and the deferral of social contributions. Additional business support schemes through exemptions, reductions or remissions of tax and social claims were also adopted under the third amending finance law for 2020, which was finally adopted by Parliament on 23 July 2020. The agricultural sectors, as in the case of the cider sector, benefit from these measures, subject to loss of turnover. Beyond these cross-cutting measures, aware of the impact on the market of these restrictions, the Government has announced the creation of an exceptional and sector-specific support package to ensure market stability and the continuation of its activity, to the tune of €5 million, financed from national appropriations. This envelope financed the destruction of cider in the amount of €3.675 million for cider producers and the destruction of cider apples in the amount of €232000 for cider apple producers in the amount of €2 million. These aids have been paid at the beginning of the year or are in the process of being paid for the last cases.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u44	Julien Denormandie could still have come to answer!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u45	Recognizing that post-crisis recovery and recovery will be very gradual, the Government will continue to support the channels, building on the cross-cutting arrangements that will be maintained during this phase-out period. In addition, close monitoring of firms in difficulty will be maintained throughout this period. The end of the crisis must correspond to a moment of renewal of our economy, in particular our agricultural sector, which has shown its resilience throughout this crisis. This is the purpose of the recovery plan, which will enable companies in the sector, many of which have already started this transition to a more sustainable, environmentally friendly and economically robust model. Indeed, the agricultural component of the France Recovery Plan, to which €1.2 billion is allocated, will increase support for the sector by fully aligning itself with the Government's priorities for recovery, ecological transition, competitiveness and territorial cohesion. This will also be the role of the CAP, which is currently being negotiated at European level. Work on the development of the national strategic plan is under way and will take into account the needs of each sector. The Ministry of Agriculture and Food continues to work with stakeholders to achieve a distribution of funds according to the needs identified. The Government as a whole, aware of the economic impact on all agricultural sectors, remains fully mobilized to monitor developments and maintains regular exchanges between the representatives of the sectors and the ministries concerned in order to provide the most appropriate responses.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u46	The ministry of the city that answers for the Ministry of Agriculture, it's still funny! Mr. Travert will be happy!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u47	Mr Eric Diard has the floor to put his question, No. 1479, on the prohibition of the crushing of chicks.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u48	Each year, 50 million male chicks are crushed, for a simple reason: they are not profitable enough because they do not produce eggs and they are neglected by the meat industry because their growth is considered too slow. In October 2019, Minister Didier Guillaume announced the ban on the elimination of male chicks by grinding before the end of 2021, when this proposal had been rejected by the Government, each time it had been presented in session by way of an amendment. Today, low-cost, animal-friendly sexing methods, such as sexing in ovo, are used, especially in Germany, where large-scale distribution sells eggs from this selection. The Bundestag has just passed on Friday a law providing for the definitive cessation of the grinding of chicks at the beginning of 2022 and favouring alternative methods of selection. In France, it is the big distribution that, beginning to hear the concerns of the French regarding animal welfare, has established as early as 2019 a partnership favouring the sexing in ovo of chicks. However, we are still far behind the Germans in this area.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u49	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u50	While only six months separate us from the end of 2021 and therefore from the deadline set by your predecessor, no announcement has been made, no legislation to implement this prohibition is yet in place. So, what is the status of work on the ban on chick grinding? Do you intend to honour the commitment to implement such a ban before the end of the year, or are you preparing for a new renunciation of animal welfare?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u51	The Minister responsible for the city has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u52	The minister in charge of the city will tell us about the chicks!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u53	Mr President, the Minister for Agriculture and Food, who is asking you to excuse him for his absence, has instructed me to give you these points of answer on his behalf. On 28 January 2020, the Government committed to halt by 2022 the systematic elimination of male chicks from laying strains. The sector and all partners are mobilized to meet this objective without the need for legislation. This commitment can be met by applying different solutions, including egg sexing – three techniques are now operational – but also, to a lesser extent, the breeding of male chicks and the development of mixed egg-meat-oriented poultry strain. In order to achieve this objective, the Government is in constant contact with the representatives of the sector and the hatcheries most affected by this transition. More than €4 million has been committed by the State to support the research. We now have a number of operational methods and the industry is working on a roadmap that will take account of possible, operational and economically viable alternatives for herders, because the end of the elimination of male chicks involves strong internal reorganizations within the industry to apply this measure very concretely. This transition, like any transition, will have a cost and will require heavy investment both initially and in the long term. The Technical Institute of poultry farming estimates the annual cost of setting up sexing in the laying sector at around €64 million, to which must be added the necessary investments in hatcheries, estimated at €9 million, and the additional operating costs. The transition therefore involves a major phase of economic negotiations between all actors. The Government provides part of the support for these changes through the agricultural component of the France Recovery Plan. These are EUR 100 million for livestock farming and EUR 80 million for the structuring of the sectors. While the State can undertake the transitions and support the investments necessary for the start-up, arrangements for the allocation of costs thereafter should be considered from now on, which are adapted to the realities of the market. It is also in order to find lasting solutions to accompany this type of transition that the Minister of Agriculture and Food and the Deputy Minister responsible for Industry have commissioned Serge Papin, former president of Workshop 5 of the General States of Food and U System, to draw up an assessment of the law for the balance of trade relations in the agricultural and food sector and a healthy, sustainable and accessible diet, known as EGALIM law, and to make recommendations. He submitted his report on Thursday, 25 March. It proposes strong measures to improve farmers' incomes, a prerequisite for transitions within the sectors. The collective momentum started in 2020 is continuing. It involves the State and the industry in the pursuit of the ambitious objective which all then set themselves collectively. Finally, you recalled Germany's position. We are in agreement with Germany on the objectives: with or without legislation, the channels must be organised to implement this ban in practice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u54	Mr Eric Diard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u55	I hear your answer, Madam Deputy Minister: we are close to the Germans for the objectives, but unfortunately not for the deadlines. The goal of the end of 2021 is moving away and I do not think, given the necessary elements, committees, reports, etc., that we will be ready by the end of 2022. I regret that in the area of animal welfare, the Government ignores the "no matter what it costs". These alternative methods really need to be financially supported. The Germans are doing it, but it is clear that we are not doing it enough, and I regret it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u56	Mr Pierre Cordier has the floor to put his question, No. 1478, on the list of priority neighbourhoods in city policy.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u57	I would like to ask you, Madam Minister Delegate, about the policy of the city, a subject that you have control of, I imagine, since it falls within your ministry, in particular on the law of 21 February 2014 on programming for the city and urban cohesion. You are absolutely not responsible for this because it was the socialist government that thought it was right to introduce an annual income of less than EUR 11250 as a criterion. This new criterion has led to the exclusion of a number of neighbourhoods or even entire cities from the perimeter of city policy. This is the case in my constituency of the Ardennes, the communes of Fumay, Nouzonville, Bogny-sur-Meuse and Revin, which are particularly affected by the economic crisis. Jacqueline Gourault, who came to the Ardennes a few weeks ago on the occasion of the establishment of a company, was aware of the economic and social difficulties experienced by these four municipalities, which can no longer benefit from a number of subsidies for social centres, cities, associations, neighbourhoods, which enabled the actors of the community and local elected representatives, among other things, to implement a number of projects. Of course, as Jacqueline Gourault had told me in the prefecture of Charleville-Mézières, these communes are the subject of an active watch. This arrangement, which I know very well, makes it possible, as a transitional measure, to receive some appropriations. There is no lack of interest, my faith, but it has nothing to do with what was done so far, for example for the commune of Nouzonville, in the south of the Meuse Valley, which I know particularly well. In this connection, I have tabled a motion for a resolution on the results of city policy because it is always interesting to assess the measures taken in this context by the State, but also by local authorities and the effectiveness of these measures. I would be grateful if you, Madam Deputy Minister, would consider a revision of its criteria, as Mrs Gourault promised a few years ago at a committee hearing, so that these municipalities can re-enter the perimeter of the city's policy – we are talking about unemployment rates above 20%, schools classified as REPs and REPs +. These are not neighbourhoods with thousands of inhabitants but medium-sized towns and town centres with a population of between 3000 and 6000 inhabitants. On the one hand, it is not possible to increase allocations to these communities and to classify their schools as PERs and exclude them from city policy.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u58	The Minister responsible for the city has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u59	I am delighted with your question, Mr. Member, because to ask that priority geography be reviewed in your constituency is to recognize the impact of city politics. As you recalled, the priority geography was defined by the planning law for the city and urban cohesion in 2014, with only the criterion of income, the scheme applying below a threshold set at 11250 euros per year. The priority geography of city policy will be reviewed as part of city contracts. These contracts have a duration of six years, but the Assembly voted, in the 2019 Finance Act, to extend them until 31 December 2022, with the 2020 municipal elections committing the new municipal team for six years. This gives us time to consult widely on city contracts, which will also take into account the impact of the crisis in our territories, in particular in priority neighbourhoods, but also in neighbourhoods placed on active watch. This will be an opportunity, with elected officials, to redefine priorities and to reflect on new city contracts in this perspective. I want to assure you that the Government supports all communities. In this way, indicators of the resources and expenses of municipalities are taken into account in the distribution of State financial assistance. This is particularly the case for DGF, the overall operating allocation. As early as 2017, the Government wished to put an end to the unilateral minority of the latter, which had been in force for several years. At the same time, we have also strengthened support for the most fragile municipalities and the 2021 finance law foresees a further €90 million increase for the DSU, the allocation of urban solidarity and social cohesion. Finally, since 2018, the Government has been keen to increase the amount of equalization allocations in a solidarity effort, in order to target more the most fragile or deteriorating communes. In your constituency, Fumay has thus experienced an increase of more than 50000 euros in its DGF since 2017, Nouzonville by more than 30000 euros and Bogny-sur-Meuse by more than 110000 euros. In conclusion, I would like to point out that the whole of the Greater East region has also benefited from increasing allocations, particularly in terms of investment. This is the case with DSIL, the local investment support allocation, which in 2020 exceeds EUR 50 million. This investment support is considerably strengthened under the Recovery Plan, with an exceptional DSIL of EUR 1 billion from the overall envelope, i.e. EUR 88 million for the Greater East region. As you can see, MP, the Government is working for all territories and we will continue to work with the communities.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u60	Mr President, I would like to respond.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u61	Mr Cordier, you are aware of the rule that applies to oral questions without debate: the time is six minutes for each of these questions, with the possibility to exchange questions, but when the question lasts three minutes thirty and the answer three minutes, there is no more speaking time.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u62	Mrs Sandra Boëlle has the floor to raise her question, No. 1476, concerning the situation of Christians in the East.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u63	My question is to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Europe. Every year, the NGO Open Doors publishes a detailed index of the persecutions of Christians around the world. The latest index shows that at present more than 340 million Christians in 74 countries are discriminated against and persecuted because of their faith, a constant increase. Among the most severely persecuted Christians are Eastern Christians. We are, of course, marked by their situation in Iraq and Syria, where they have suffered terrible abuses on the part of the Islamic State: murders, rapes, sexual slavery, torture, destruction of houses and churches. Their suffering cannot be measured and the numbers of the Christian exodus are alarming: almost 60 per cent of them have fled Syria and 80 per cent have fled Iraq since the conflict began. Despite Daesh's decline, Islamic extremism remains rooted in people's mindsets. Lack of security, infrastructure, employment and education, lack of future and hope, the exodus of Christians continues. Iraq and Syria should not, however, turn our eyes away from other countries where Eastern Christians are in danger: Iran, Pakistan, Yemen, Egypt, Lebanon, Jordan, Turkey and, more recently, Armenia. In the East, Christians are a vector of peace, tolerance and stability in these societies gnawed by conflicts and wars. If the region is emptied of its Christians, it will be the end of pluralism and religious tolerance and, worse still, the strengthening of the dogmatism of radical Islam. Christian leaders, who have become indispensable, are everywhere on the brink. In some countries, they are actively working for the reconciliation and reconstruction of their societies. These local religious actors are often more effective than large NGOs in supporting persecuted minorities and in distributing humanitarian aid. They are the first, and often the last, to invest in their trusting communities. What are France's means of protecting Eastern Christians? How much of France's international aid reaches these persecuted Christian minorities? Is it envisaged that part of it will be paid directly to the necessary local religious leaders?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u64	The next speaker is the Minister for Foreign Trade and Attractiveness.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u65	Madam Member, I know that you are following the situation of Christians in the East with great attention, since you are co-chair of the study group devoted to them. You are right: the situation of persecuted ethnic and religious minorities in the Middle East is very worrying, starting with the situation of Christian communities. In recent years, France has committed itself with determination to the protection of these minorities, on which, as you have recalled, the diversity, openness, pluralism and thus the future of the societies of the Middle East depend. Among these minorities, France maintains ancient relations, rooted in history and marked by the spread of the French language with the Christians of the East, whose protection is consistent with our universalist conception of human rights, including freedom of religion and conscience, and the maintenance of the religious diversity of this region is an indispensable condition, we believe, for its evolution towards tolerance, peace and stability. It is in this spirit that France has mobilized since 2014 to face the difficulties faced by these minorities. In March 2015, the exceptional meeting of the United Nations Security Council, under the French presidency, discussed these issues. On 8 September 2015, the international conference organized by France made it possible to advance and draw up an action plan in this area to allow the return of refugees, to ensure that the perpetrators of the crimes committed are held accountable and to restore and preserve the cultural heritage of Eastern Christians. In 2015, again, a fund to support victims of ethnic and religious violence in the Middle East was set up by France, with forty projects, for a total amount of 11 million euros directly allocated to Christians in the East. On 23 January 2020, the President of the Republic announced the creation of a fund dedicated to the support of French-speaking Christian schools or teaching French in the Middle East, which allows to accompany many schools, especially in Lebanon, but also in the Palestinian territories, Jordan and Egypt – you mentioned many countries – with no less than 2 million euros already committed. You see, Madam Member, the future of Eastern Christians is very important to the Government. We also continue, with our various embassies and diplomatic representations, to ensure that specific assistance is taken into account to support these victims of discrimination. We are convinced that Christians in the East and their future must remain a priority for us.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u66	Mrs Sandra Boëlle has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u67	Thank you, Minister Delegate, for the information you have just given us. We know that France is very invested in these issues. Having said that, I don't think you fully answered me, since I asked you about the help that could be provided directly to religious in minority communities.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u68	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u69	Mr Joël Aviragnet has the floor to put his question, No. 1489, concerning the situation of high school students.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u70	My question concerns the plight of our high school students. Let me read you the letter from the students of the Bagatelle High School in Saint-Gaudens, in my constituency. Madam Minister for Higher Education, Research and Innovation, I ask you to hear their distress because I do not think that the situation they describe is limited to this high school alone. It is our youth that we are talking about: "We write to you from Saint-Gaudens, sub-prefecture of Haute-Garonne. We have been a group of protestors active since the beginning of May and, on our scale, we have been experiencing and seeing for almost a year now great academic difficulties and moral damage, and that is why we are demonstrating. Today we are out of breath. In the face of our cries, on the one hand we have collected threats from some teachers and law enforcement officials – who, moreover, have intervened since – but, fortunately, on the other hand, we have received the support of many teachers, and even the approval of several parents of pupils, or even of unions. "We are not a dozen students who do not want to go to class. We are students reflecting on their daily situation. We are students who have lived every day for almost two years an invivable situation, pushing some to depression, and even suicide" – cf. The Ipsos survey, which recalls that 29% of young people reported suicidal thoughts, according to an article in Figaro. "This situation is ignored by national education. No additional devices have been created in recent years and students suffer and will continue to suffer if we do nothing. "We have a number of concrete demands about our future, our success, our health and our present and future lives. "So, right now, we don't understand why we're just being looked at and not being heard. Yet we are organized, respectful, clear and, above all, determined. "This lack of general understanding is mixed with the contempt of national education for us because, so far, we have received only ignorance from you. The unions you received were not the unions representing us, we high school students and protestors. You have chosen, noting the dissatisfaction of the students, not the unions initiators of the movement, but other unions, more passive and to which you are closer. It is, once again, a proof of contempt and ignorance towards us. That is what we condemn to national education. This is the lack of listening – the lack of listening that has led to the loss of many students in the country, the lack of listening that dismays us and pushes us to demonstrate. That is why we share with you today our desire to succeed and, even more so, our ill-being. "Our demands are as follows to remedy the crisis that high school students experience as students. First of all, the passing into continuous control of several tests, continuous check concerning the tests for students in BTS, concerning the tests for the students of Première in general section, including the tests of French, oral and written. Next, the creation of psychological support cells for high school students in schools, no matter what the cost, and whatever the cost, to support them in the difficult passage of the crisis. "Listening and dialogue are the best solutions to the crisis we are experiencing because it is a school and psychological crisis that many of us are going through, which is the result of the health crisis. Don't despise us. "Finally, we ask you, what are your objectives, what are your reasons for overburdening us with this pressure, these trials that we find insurmountable in view of our current capabilities? »
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u71	The Minister for Higher Education, Research and Innovation has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u72	Mr President, contrary to the feelings of these young people, the Ministry of National Education, Youth and Sports maintains a frequent, respectful and constructive dialogue with the representatives of the high school population. The minister, Jean-Michel Blanquer, is deeply concerned about high school democracy and he himself consults very regularly with the representatives of high school students through the CNVL, the National Council for High School Life, as he did on 29 April. The vast majority of CNVL's elected officials do not belong to any high school organization and are simply there to represent high school students. On 4 May the Minister also consulted the four representatives of the high school students elected to the Higher Education Council. These representatives belong to two different organisations and all these consultations allowed the representatives of the high school students to express themselves entirely freely on the health conditions, the psychological conditions and the examinations of 2021, which led the minister to announce several developments as early as 5 May. The additional adjustments are the doubling of the subjects in advance tests of written French, the choice between two texts in advance tests of oral French and the mention, in the description, of the programme points not addressed. In philosophy, it is the best of the two marks between the continuous check and the mark of the test that will be taken. It is the taking into account of the two best common test marks of general education for the vocational baccalaureate and, for the BTS, of which more than 11,000 do not have a school booklet and therefore cannot be in continuous control, an exceptional session of orals which, I am sure, will enable them to succeed. All these adjustments are intended to propose to each candidate the best possible conditions for success in this session, which is always singular. Beyond this, the Ministry is aware of the health situation that deeply affects young people. A circular was published on February 16 to take care of anxious, psychologically distressed or at risk students in the context of the health crisis of the covid-19 as soon as the winter holidays returned. It is therefore a new impetus that has been given to the prevention strategy, so that it involves the entire school community. Information on the 119-Alloh Children at Risk campaign has been strengthened. As you can see, the overall well-being and development of every child, adolescent and student are priorities of the Ministry of National Education and of the Government as a whole.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u73	Mr Julien Ravier has the floor to put his question, No. 1480, on sports halls.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u74	With the return of experience of the health crisis and administrative closures, the sports halls claim the essential character of their activity. As sports facilities, they bring indisputable, indispensable benefits to the physical and mental health of their users, especially during periods of confinement. The fact that the practice of gymnastics has remained possible on presentation of an order means that it is recognized as such. In the event of a new wave of covid-19, or even another epidemic, the owners of sports halls therefore wish that they, beyond prescription sport, can remain open to all audiences, in accordance with a strict health protocol that would limit the risks. Moreover, our Spanish neighbours, who left these rooms open during the health crisis, did not discover any outbreaks of contamination there. Therefore, my first question will be this: could France reconsider its position and recognise an essential character for certain sports activities carried out inside, such as those of these halls? Disinfection devices are also evolving, notably thanks to UV-C radiation, which has been patented for a number of uses: they drastically reduce the risk of contamination in a closed environment. In my riding in Marseilles, Doovision Santé invented Manoa, which, through the diffusion of UV-C, disinfects objects or hands in three seconds – a solution much more ecological than the hydro-alcoholic gel – but also the atmosphere of a room. This technology, without any risk to health, is of great interest in the context of the defining and reopening of enclosed spaces. Hence my second question: what is the Government's position with regard to these new techniques, which can help return to life, especially in sports halls?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u75	The Minister for Higher Education, Research and Innovation has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u76	You are right, Mr. Ravier, and we certainly all agree with you about the importance, the essential nature of sport. It is known how sport, even beyond prevention, can improve physical and mental health. Your question was addressed to the Minister responsible for sports: of course, her objective is to avoid a new wave and thus a new confinement. In addition to the proximity between users, sports halls have a high volume and airflow due to the sporting activities taking place there. We are very careful to review all the devices that could allow us, in compliance with health protocols, to preserve sports practice even in the event of reconfinition: UV-C disinfection devices are part of it, as well as six times more "breathing" masks developed for athletes. We are looking at these techniques; We know how the closure of sports halls for adults, the limitation of sport for children, have made confinements even more difficult to live. What we all hope, above all, is that vaccination protocols will avoid further containment: otherwise, we will strive to take advantage of the best innovations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u77	Mr Julien Ravier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u78	Thank you very much, minister, for your answer. In this period of containment and health crisis, it testifies to your consideration of sport, especially indoor sport, which is very widespread and highly appreciated by our fellow citizens. In fact, we have a common desire to help them, as you recall the physical and psychological usefulness of sports practice. Once again, I thank you for taking the trouble to answer me and to show us all the attention that the Government is going to pay to this question. Despite the health pass, despite vaccination, we all fear that more resistant variants will require one or more reconfinements: it would be desirable to anticipate and change the activities that we could thus allow to continue – in compliance with strict health conditions, in order to preserve the health of the French. I also note that you are studying today the new virucid devices, such as those using UV-C and developed by several French companies, one of which, I repeat, is based in Marseilles. I am particularly interested in the technology being examined, because it really makes it possible to purify the air. I am convinced that, thanks to such devices, not only sport, but a large number of other indoor activities – such as research and higher education in amphitheater, or even our sessions in this Chamber – could be maintained if the question arose again.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u79	Mrs Parmentier-Lecocq has the floor to raise her question, No. 1475, concerning access to second-year medical studies.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u80	I am speaking here for students on a specific access path – PASS – or under a licence with the option "health access" – LAS – as well as their parents, who have told me of their concern and dissatisfaction with the way in which the reform of health studies is implemented. It is true that the health context has made this reform more complicated. However, the lack of visibility regarding the actual chances of access to the second year of medicine has created significant anxiety, which is penalizing students. I would like to pay tribute here to the commitment of the Faculty of Medicine of Lille and its Dean, Professor Dominique Lacroix, to the success of young people in this complex situation; But it must be noted that the cohabitation between the old and the new system leads to difficulties of adaptation. The result is a challenge to the number of second year places actually reserved for PASS or LAS students. A decision of the Council of State of 28 April 2021 thus suspended the execution of the decree of 25 January 2021 because of the number of places allocated to the repeaters of the former PACES, the first year common to health studies. Everyone recognizes that the previous system was absolutely unacceptable, both because of the low chances of success of the students, even the brightest, and for our territories, which still lack doctors and other health professionals cruelly; However, the new mechanism must honour its promises, i.e. guarantee more opportunities for success and a second real chance. I know, Madam Minister, that you are strongly mobilized to do this, and I thank you for the exchanges we have had, but the students and their parents need to be aware of the Government's commitments in this area. My question will therefore be how many places students in PASS and LAS will actually be able to access: will they ensure that young people have a better chance of entering second grade, and how will those who have not been able to reach this goal be given a second chance, even if they have committed themselves to a minor health, in other words an LA, that they have not chosen? More specifically, what will happen in the Hauts-de-France, especially at the Faculty of Medicine in Lille?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u81	The Minister for Higher Education, Research and Innovation has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u82	Mrs Parmentier-Lecocq, you are asking me about the reform of health studies, adopted in 2019, which takes place this year and is obviously constrained by the pandemic. You recalled that this reform was imperative. The CAPES system had far more disadvantages than benefits for our young people, but also, more broadly, for how to provide care and for the location of healthcare professionals; Sixty percent of the candidates came out without any recognition of their achievements, after two years at university. We had to change that, that's it. I would like to reassure the students and their families: there will be no sacrificed generation. This reform promotes success, and no student in the first year of medicine, whether he repeats or not, whether in PACES, PASS or LAS, will be harmed: things have been calculated in this way. The new decree that Olivier Véran and I issued on 7 May draws all the consequences of the order of the Council of State that you mentioned and specifies the criteria for determining the number of places reserved for each public. It is designed to meet the Territory's health needs, the training needs of health professionals and the capacity of universities to receive them, since it is no longer at the national level but in each territory, between universities, that the number of health professionals to be trained will be decided. You greeted the dean of Lille: I greet the deans of the medical faculties and university presidents, who have provided a huge job, as well as the regional health agencies, the RHAs. This year, 16,700 places were offered for the four health sectors, the most significant increase in the medical sector, where more than 10,600 students will be admitted in the second year. In the department of Nord, there will be 940 – including 580 in medicine – for the University of Lille and 240 – including 190 in medicine – at the Catholic University of Lille. This represents an increase of 12 per cent. The calculation took into account the chances that the students of PACES, not doubling on the one hand, would have in the old system, on the other hand, the chances that we kept them; all additional places are allocated to students in PASS or LAS. Once again, students in the first year will be more likely to succeed. Next year will be the second year of implementation of the reform: the number of places will be maintained, and other places reserved for students who will be in the second year of bachelor's, sometimes in minor health, but who will want to access health studies. This will guarantee them a real second chance, as in the old system – if not in the old system, they would double. We have therefore made a real improvement. I asked the General Inspectorate to give me its findings at the end of June; I will also draw on the two parliamentary reports on the subject, in order to further improve the deployment of this reform for the benefit of the students. This is my top priority.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u83	Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor to put his question, No 1491, on the resumption of the cultural sector.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u84	My question was to the Minister of Culture. Despite the reopening of cultural sites, the sector's prospects remain fairly uncertain. Not all major gatherings will take place; many festivals are postponed; The first confinement has stopped many creations, especially independent ones. Again, it is a whole professional sector that suffers – artists, technicians, authors, all cultural actors. You have recently announced that additional funds will accompany this reopening: good, but many dead spots remain, especially in terms of employment. Things can't stay as they are. First of all, it is about the employment and income of our fellow citizens, which have been seriously affected: the sector's activity has collapsed by 30% and this figure itself covers deep inequalities. New arrivals, as well as students of artistic and cultural education, must be supported: what measures are you planning to accompany their entry into the so-called active life? What share of the funds announced will be allocated to new artistic initiatives? I am thinking here of the proposal made by the French trade union of performers, of the general confederation of labour, the SFA-CGT: to spend 90 million euros a month to finance teams of artists, technicians and authors, who will be able to create, make live and disseminate a multitude of artistic forms throughout the country. These are issues for artistic employment but also for the diversity of the sector. These productions could be installed everywhere, in towns, villages, on squares, and extended to September in residence, especially in schools where the teaching of the arts and the development of artistic practices promised by the President of the Republic are still awaited. I will conclude with the slogan – everyone has already heard it – of artists who still occupy dozens of cultural places: "What we ask for, we want for all of us. They thus call for the abolition of the unemployment insurance reform to be abolished with the same voice. Madam Minister, will you hear these demands?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u85	The Minister for Higher Education, Research and Innovation has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u86	The Minister of Culture has instructed me to reply to you, Mr Corbière, because she is unfortunately being detained elsewhere. You are right: the health crisis that we are going through has particularly affected the cultural sector and threatened its economic and social model, as well as the precious bond that unites us all with our artists. There is a need for projects that will attract health professionals. As a result, €1.3 million has just been allocated to Val-d'Oise to develop psychiatry projects related to perinatality and support for children entrusted with child welfare – as you know, these two issues are intertwined. There is also a need to develop medical-psychological centres and psychologists' posts in the homes of adolescents, as I mentioned in referring to the Ségur de la santé. The reopening of cultural places allows the gradual resumption of the artistic life of our country, but it goes without saying that it is necessary to continue to accompany all cultural professionals in the coming months. That is why, in addition to the extension of cross-cutting aid to enterprises, the Minister of Culture has announced new measures, amounting to almost 150 million euros, to support the gradual resumption of the activities of cinema and live entertainment. These measures are in addition to the EUR 97 million in emergency aid for creation and cultural employment announced in March. In addition, following the presentation of Mr. Gauron's report and after consultation with the actors in the world of culture, Élisabeth Borne and Roselyne Bachelot announced a further four-month extension of the white year of intermittents as well as the introduction of additional safety nets until 31 December 2022 – a total of 16 months longer protection from 31 August 2021. You also refer, Mr. Member, to the plight of new graduates and young artists. They are also at the heart of the Government's policy; They benefit from, among other things, the temporary lowering of the threshold of access to intermittance and the "one young person, one solution" to help them enter the labour market. The strengthening of support for cultural recovery and the enthusiastic return of our fellow citizens to museums, theatres and cinemas demonstrate a deep commitment to our culture. We can be proud of it and will continue to accompany it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u87	Mr Yannick Favennec-Becot has the floor to put his question, No. 1486, on the situation of students.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u88	Madam Minister for Higher Education, Research and Innovation, at the initiative of Jean-Pierre Le Scornet, mayor of the city of Mayenne, who is the capital of my constituency, several parliamentarians including two members of the Mayenne Parliament, Guillaume Garot and I, alerted you on 4 March last about the special situation of students preparing a BTS – a certificate for a higher technician – in a high school in the city. They cannot benefit from two meals a day at a price of 1 euro or from other services available to students in metropolitan areas: university preventive medicine and health promotion service, access to sport and specific documentation by the university library (BU), cultural activities offered on campuses. Your answer, received a month and a half later, is quite upbuilding in terms of language of wood. After reading long generalities which do not concern the subject of our inquiry, we must wait for the last lines to obtain a half-answer which amounts to saying that you wash your hands of it. For the local and national elected representatives we are, but also and especially for the students, this response is neither audible nor acceptable, especially in the current context of a health crisis. These young people who study in secondary schools in rural areas are full-fledged students. Yet, by denying them access to the 1 euro meal scheme for students in metropolitan areas, you create discrimination that worsens their feeling of injustice. Thus, according to your mail, they are students for registration fees but not for meals; If they want to have lunch for 1 euro, they have to travel the 30 kilometers that separate them from the university restaurant. I invite you, Madam Minister, to take their place for lunch; then you will understand that this is absolutely impossible. Opposing an end to not receiving their request for equal treatment in respect of meals and failing to respond to their request for access to other university services is tantamount to telling all students in France that it is better not to attend higher education in rural areas, otherwise they will be considered students intermittently. For you, they have a student status that stops at the lunch break, when they become high school students again and then become students again – provided they do not seek access to the university library, as they would then become high school students, having access only to the CDI, the documentation and information center. So, Madam Minister, the students of the city of Mayenne as well as all the students who choose to pursue their higher education in the rural world expect from you a concrete response to their situation in this period of health crisis. They also ask you to consider them as full students and to give them access to all the services to which students in France are entitled. Madam Minister, university France is not just about the metropolises.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u89	The Minister for Higher Education, Research and Innovation has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u90	You're preaching to a convinced woman, Congressman. Of course, France in higher education does not stop at the metropolises! In fact, what government has made it possible to settle in the territories of campuses where students have access to the documents of the BU...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u91	Not everywhere!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u92	... and that conventions have been concluded between the CROUS – regional centres of academic and academic works – and the cities? You are well aware, honourable Member, that the restoration in high schools is not dependent on the CROUS or the state, but on the regions. Each time communities have requested this, the CROUS have signed agreements so that the government can subsidize student meals, but unfortunately we cannot do what is at the expense of other communities. You know that a window system has been put in place for students. In this context, we have allowed each of them, wherever he is in France, to contact the CROUS, psychologists, social workers – even in a dematerialised way if he cannot move – so as not to feel isolated. It is true that there are still places where the number of students does not allow us to set up a library or a university restaurant. But we're still trying to find solutions for these places. We even go much further because when we set up connected campuses in very small cities, thanks to digital technology, we give a majority of students access to higher education and everything that accompanies it. It is a constant fight that must be waged, and which also concerns mentalities: yes, one can study everywhere in France. We will even be able to do it more and more and succeed, and this will in no way be low-cost studies, as some say.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u93	Mr Yannick Favennec-Becot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u94	Your written answer didn't convince me, minister. I must say that the oral answer does not convince me any more. I want to advise you to cross the Paris ring road...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u95	You're telling me that!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u96	...and come to meet the students of the rural world. I invite you officially this morning to come to Mayenne; I am sure that the young women and men who are studying in this city would be particularly happy to explain to you orally their daily difficulties and the discrimination they feel they are being subjected to.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u97	The next speaker is Mr Xavier Paluszkiewicz, to put his question, No. 1467, on the Franco-Luxembourg tax convention.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u98	Deputy Minister responsible for Small and Medium Enterprises, I would like to submit two blocks of questions related to the current tax return period. The first block concerns the special declaration of the residents of the Grand Est region working or being pensioners in Luxembourg, more specifically the double tax declaration. While the amendment signed between our two countries has corrected the effects of the Convention which could have led, in certain situations, to claim additional tax on frontier workers in Luxembourg, this Convention introduces the transition from taxation at the effective rate to the new method of eliminating double taxation by means of a tax credit equal to the French tax, in accordance with the standards of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, the OECD. In addition to the new administrative procedures that result from this situation, the borderers – whom I represent – fear that their tax credit will be reduced by these new methods of calculation. However, according to the impact assessment provided by the Ministry, "this amendment will have no impact on public finances as it aims to reintroduce provisions equivalent to those contained in the tax convention of 1 April 1958". As for the effects of the method of eliminating double taxation provided for in this Convention, they remain equivalent for so-called traditional frontier workers who receive only income in Luxembourg as for single persons or frontier couples with other income in France, as long as they were already taxable in the old agreement concluded. Can the Government affirm or deny that the declaration is still compulsory in France, regardless of the tax situation? Can he also affirm or reverse that the developments in the declaratory arrangements of this Convention will not have an impact on the taxation of frontier workers, beyond the taxes which they had already paid under the old Convention? My second question is more forward-looking because it potentially concerns next year's tax return. Less than one month before the deadline of 30 June 2021, meaning the end of the friendly agreement on unlimited telework for frontier workers in the context of the fight against covid-19, does the Government intend to extend this agreement or to give up its further extension? For my part, I am already calling to go beyond the 29-day glass ceiling of telework.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u99	The next speaker is the Minister for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u100	The 2018 Convention, which deals with income collected from 2020 onwards, provides for the maintenance of taxation in Luxembourg only for the wages of the borderers who carry on business there. In the context of the new 2018 Convention, France grants a tax credit equal to the French tax, which amounts to completely exempting Luxembourg's income from any tax calculated in France. This method allows these incomes to be taken into account in the calculation of the progressive rate applicable to other income taxed in France and collected in addition to these Luxembourg income. The old exemption method conferred an additional advantage on households receiving income from Luxembourg sources: not only was French tax totally abandoned on this income from foreign sources, in line with the objective of eliminating double taxation, but it was also taken into account in order to reduce the calculation of the progressive tax on other household income taxable in France. The transition from one method to another is by construction without impact for households receiving exclusively or very mainly resources of Luxembourg origin. I confirm to you, honourable Member: no French tax is payable on wages in Luxembourg; the latter are taxed only in Luxembourg, at the rate provided for by Luxembourg legislation. The method of elimination by tax credit now applied is that which France has been implementing in all the conventions it has been negotiating for many years: for example, it is found in the conventions in force with Germany, Switzerland, the United Kingdom, Spain and Italy. On an overall level of the same income, it enables persons working in Luxembourg, France or Germany to be treated equally as regards the progressive rate applied to other income taxed in France, whether they are subject to a border regime or not. I have also taken good note, Mr President, of your question on telework, to which we will very quickly give you a very precise answer.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u101	Mr Xavier Paluszkiewicz has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u102	Things have the merit of being very clear. That is why, Minister Delegate, I thank you very much.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u103	Mrs Florence Provendier has the floor to put her question, No 1469, on the development of decarbonated hydrogen.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u104	Today, the hydrogen used by industry is mainly produced from fossil fuels. The national strategy for the development of decarbonated hydrogen in France, presented by the Government in September 2020 as part of the recovery plan, allows for a combination of technological development and ecological transition. This new low-impact energy represents a real opportunity both at the territorial level and at the European level, in particular thanks to the decarbonisation of the industry allowed by the emergence of a French electrolysis industry, thanks to the development of heavy mobility to decarbonated hydrogen and thanks to support for research, innovation and skills development aimed at promoting the deployment of tomorrow's uses. I welcome the fact that industry's reduction of CO emissions is a priority and I would like to better understand the Government's ambition to develop the use of CO in day-to-day activities. Some local and regional authorities have already seized the subject. In my constituency, this is the case of the city of Issy-les-Moulineaux, which, after adopting a climate budget with annual greenhouse gas emission reduction targets, has launched a call for projects to operate a decarbonated hydrogen production station. The hydrogen produced will be used in particular to develop soft mobility and to heat new housing. Given the environmental, economic, energy sovereignty and technological independence challenges, what is the Government's ambition to develop decarbonated hydrogen to transform the daily lives of the French? What are the returns of companies on the calls for projects you launched in 2020, in particular on territorial hydrogen hubs or on technological bricks and demonstrators? Finally, since I have a few seconds left, let me invite you, as well as all the people who follow this oral question session without debate, to look at the Eiffel Tower tonight: for the first time, it will be illuminated with green hydrogen, thanks to the teams of Energy Observer.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u105	The next speaker is the Minister for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u106	As you pointed out, the French strategy is based on a principle: to locate on French territory the main bricks of the value chain. The first strategic focus of the Government is the decarbonization of industry, in order to make the production of green hydrogen competitive with that of grey hydrogen. The strategy to achieve this is to first support structural research and development (R&amp;D) projects and then industrialization of electrolyzers as part of an important project of common European interest (PIIEC), and finally decarbonization of two or three pilot industrial sites. The second strategic axis concerns the development of hydrogen uses, in particular for mobility, in substitution for fossil fuels. This axis has different priorities. The aim is to support research and development projects focusing in particular on demonstrators, industrialization projects which will allow France to exercise industrial sovereignty over this technology and the deployment of uses for certain transport vehicles – bus fleet, commercial vehicles, hydrogen trains, cruise ships, aviation. The support mechanisms are already operational, with a visibility of EUR 3.4 billion that could be committed by 2023. The call for projects "Technology Bricks and Demonstrators" is worth €350 million; the national call for projects "Hydrogen Territorial Hubs", to which you referred, has 325 million euros, of which 50 million committed in 2020; Finally, EUR 1.5 billion is being mobilised for the construction of an important project of common European interest on hydrogen, like the European battery project. Other mechanisms would also be deployed to promote the decarbonization of industry, the hydrogen train or the aircraft of the future. Our ambition is to position France and Europe as leaders of this energy of tomorrow, as part of our strategy of national and European sovereignty. Madam Member, thank you for your invitation: I will try tonight to look up to the Eiffel Tower.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u107	Mrs Isabelle Valentin has the floor to put her question, No 1481, on the price of raw materials in the BTP.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u108	Shortage of raw materials, catastrophic price increases: our companies suffer and are weakened. The health crisis has highlighted our industrial and technological dependence on non-European suppliers, particularly in strategic sectors. The context of uncertainty and speculation in which the vast majority of raw material producers, particularly in Asia, as well as the slow resumption of production capacity, find themselves, is leading to significant logistical tensions over supplies in Europe. As you know, the Minister responsible for small and medium-sized enterprises, we are now witnessing a time lag between a significant recovery in demand and a non-following supply management. The order books are full, but the shortage of certain materials and components leads to an upsurge in prices, leading to significant delays in delivery, which in turn will lead to numerous delays in construction sites and additional costs. These phenomena will penalise our entrepreneurs and, unfortunately, weaken economic recovery. In my constituency of Haute-Loire, as everywhere in France, many professionals are faced with major difficulties in supplying materials. For some products, the situation is such that suppliers no longer give prices or delivery times. Industrialists and construction professionals no longer dare to publish quotations, or do so only subject to a 48-hour validation period, as prices are volatile – upwards. This surge in material prices, coupled with a shortage, is likely to have dramatic consequences in terms of employment and economic recovery, and unfortunately will be a brake on investment. In my constituency, the plastics and general mechanics industries, which account for more than 6,000 jobs, are heavily affected, such as the entire BTP. Minister Delegate, what is your French and European vision, and what are your means of reindustrializing France and guaranteeing our sovereignty? What actions can you implement in support of the resilience of our supply and value chains, in order to save industries and businesses in our territories, and ultimately guarantee our strategic autonomy?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u109	The next speaker is the Minister for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u110	I have very good news: economic recovery is there – and the Government is as happy with it as the elected representatives in their territory. As you indicate, in different sectors we perceive increasing difficulties, in terms of delivery times and the cost of materials. Fifteen days ago, Bruno Le Maire and I received the professional building organisations – the Fédération Française du Bâtiment (FFB) and the Confederation of Crafts and Small Building Enterprises (CAPEB) – who were particularly alarmed and asked us to engage with them in a reflection on how to support companies in this sector. Several measures are under consideration. In terms of financial support, there is sometimes a difference between the estimate that was drawn up and the actual cost of the work: when this situation concerns the local authorities, we will look at whether the estimates could not be reassessed, and how. Other issues are a little more complicated: for example, we are wondering about the possibility of not applying late penalties when a yard falls behind due to a delivery problem. As you said, we are a little caught between a strong demand in the United States and China, due to the economic recovery, and the fact that industries overall have not returned to a sufficient level of production. Part of the difficulties we face is that many suppliers are no longer on European territory. That is why one of the key objectives of the recovery plan will be to relocate businesses to our territory – which, unfortunately, can only be a long-term action. We hope that the ad hoc accompanying measures that will be taken, together with the fact that industries outside Europe are resuming sufficient production, will help us to prevent economic recovery from being hampered by these supply difficulties. We are also very careful to ensure that the needs of enterprises in terms of skilled labour are met. These two topics – the supply of materials and the presence of a skilled workforce that meets the needs of companies – are among those on which we are mobilizing to ensure that the recovery is effective, concrete and powerful in our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u111	Mrs Caroline Janvier has the floor to raise her question, No 1470, concerning Office Depot.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u112	My question concerns the absolute urgency of the situation of Office Depot in France. This well-known company, dedicated to office equipment, brings together within its French subsidiary 1500 employees located in the national territory. Placed in judicial reform in February 2021, this French subsidiary is now facing a more than uncertain future, since it has not yet found a successor. In parallel with the judicial reorganization procedure, a right of alert was deposited by the employees of Office Depot in early 2019 because of their concern about one of the shareholders of the company and the financial relations between the various branches of the company. The announcement of the owner's name by the Lille commercial court is expected today, 25 May, but, given the changing economic situation of the company and the lack of consolidated solutions, it is urgent that the Government support the effective and socially just resolution of conflicts around the future of the company and its employees. I welcome the company's support from the Ministry of Economy and the Interministerial Committee for Industrial Restructuring (CIRI) since 2020, as this subsidiary, consisting of three warehouses, but also 22 platforms and 60 stores, represents a major link in the territorial economic fabric. I have chosen to ask you about this today, the day of the announcement of the name of the owner of Office Depot, because none of the seven existing offers will preserve all the 1500 jobs of this French subsidiary bought, I recall, for a symbolic euro by the Aurelius fund now four years ago – a fund that led it to the situation we are experiencing today. I would like to draw your attention this morning to the urgency of a situation on which the future of the Meung-sur-Loire site in my constituency depends, but also to the many other sites of this company, which are an essential link in employment in France.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u113	The next speaker is the Minister for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u114	As you recall, the Member of Parliament, Office Depot France, at the end of payment, was placed in court in early February by the Commercial Court of Lille. Indeed, for many years, this company has experienced difficulties marked by a six-year decline of 35% in its turnover and by the accumulation of significant losses. This was what led his shareholder to appoint, in February 2019, a transitional manager – who unfortunately failed to restructure the company to straighten it out. A search for buyers was therefore initiated in 2020 as part of an ad hoc mandate and then conciliation. During this period, the State, through the action of CIRI, has invested heavily with society to promote the emergence of a solution. In this context, the public liability of EUR 15 million was set up to preserve the company's cash flow and thus increase the chances of finding a solution. In addition, since March 2020, all common law measures, such as partial activity, have been fully activated. Unfortunately, given the economic and financial situation of the company and the lack of shareholder support, this search for a solution has not been successful either. On cessation of payment in February 2021, Office Depot was therefore forced to request the commencement of judicial reorganization proceedings. The State services have remained very active in helping interested actors to bid and extend their scope to the maximum possible extent. Thus, in view of the offers submitted to the court, most of Office Depot's stores should be taken over, which should allow, depending on the court's decision, to save a significant number of permanent jobs. On the other hand, the so-called contract activities and the support trades have not found a buyer to best accompany the employees, who will not be taken over. In connection with the Ministry of Labour, we have decided to deploy a strengthened accompanying mechanism to ensure close and personalized follow-up of each.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u115	Mrs Fabienne Colboc has the floor to put her question, No. 1474, concerning the proposed reorganization of EDF.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u116	My question concerns the proposed reorganization of EDF, which is currently under negotiation with the European Commission. As a result of the strong mobilization of the agents of the nuclear power plant in Chinon – on 8 April last, the strikers' rate had reached 50% on this site – I went to the union delegates to gather their views on this project formerly called Hercules. First of all, I have the feeling that all actors agree on the need to change the organisation of this strategic undertaking – because of its financial situation, but also because of the important investments it will have to make. It is EDF's ability to invest in the energies of the future and to ensure the maintenance costs of its nuclear fleet that are being played out today. Nevertheless, the outline of the project presented by the Government and the management of the group, including the division of EDF into three entities, is a cause for great concern among employees. Several trade union organisations see this as a risk of dismantling the public service and a start at privatisation of the group. More specifically, the unions fear an increase in electricity prices and a challenge to the accessibility of this common good. They point out that the integration of the ENEDIS sector into an entity open to private capital would pose a risk to tariff equalization, a principle whereby all consumers pay the same price regardless of their place of residence. Trade unions also fear a decrease in investment in networks that could lead to a deterioration in the quality of service for users. Finally, they call for a debate in Parliament on the guidelines to be taken. For all these reasons, like many of my colleagues, I am wondering about this reform and would like clarification on the main thrusts of this project and on the progress of negotiations with the European Commission. It is essential that the Government be able to reassure EDF employees about the consequences of this reorganization, which affects one of the most strategic companies in our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u117	The next speaker is the Minister for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u118	As you know, EDF risks losing some of its hydro-electric concessions, given today's competitive obligation and, pending the settlement of Community disputes, developments in the field of hydro-electricity are blocked. On the other hand, the current regulation of the nuclear power plant does not ensure that the costs and investments necessary for its operation are covered. At the same time, EDF's major European competitors are investing heavily, particularly in renewable energy. The Government does not want EDF to be relegated to the background, away from these major challenges of the energy transition. In close connection with EDF, he has engaged in discussions with the European Commission to empower the company to play a key role in the energy transition while respecting the rules of the European electricity market. In order to base his demand for changes in the regulation of existing nuclear production, he invoked its major contribution to France's low-carbon energy policy. The project it defends would ensure the sustainability of all EDF's public service missions and the status of all its activities as a public enterprise. It would guarantee EDF's future through fair remuneration for its nuclear production activity and ensure the continuation of hydro-electric concessions. It would be based on 100% detention of EDF SA by the State. This project, Madam Member, will be debated in Parliament and submitted to EDF's social dialogue and governance bodies. As Bruno Le Maire said, he would do without touching social status and ensure the maintenance of the social and human unity of the EDF group. Consultations are under way with trade unions to improve it and to create a consensus on this reform, the timing of which depends first and foremost on the progress of discussions with trade unions and the European Commission.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u119	The floor is open to Mr. Laurent Garcia, to put his question, No. 1461, concerning assistance to catering professionals.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u120	Mr Minister-in-Charge of Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises, I would like to ask you about measures to support businesses, particularly those accompanying catering professionals affected by the restrictions on activities related to the health crisis. Overall, in the face of the changing health crisis, the Government has demonstrated a high capacity for adaptation in order to meet immediate expectations as quickly as possible and to anticipate risks. Thus, over the weeks, months, the aid measures have undergone multiple adaptations to fill the so-called holes in the snowshoe and adapt the accompanying measures to each context of professional practice. However, despite this approach of continuous improvement of the responses to the difficulties of the catering trades, atypical situations which do not correspond to any criteria of financial support remain. They are the subject of my question. To illustrate my point, I would like to highlight the case of a couple of restaurateurs in my constituency. Fully invested in his professional project, this couple became heavily indebted: before the health crisis, he devoted months to the renovation of an establishment in order to create a new restaurant brand, the Winery in Ludres, offering customers a vast reception area and optimised quality services. The restaurateurs were hit hard by the first confinement and were unable to complete the works and inaugurate their establishment. If the defunction finally allowed them to complete their work, the subsequent confinement prevented them from opening. A process of problems has put them in great financial and social difficulty. Thus, they could not offer the sale to take away, given the novelty of their sign and its geographical location. In addition, they are not entitled to financial assistance for lack of previous turnover or to unemployment benefits, since their activity in the previous months was totally devoted to the renovation of the establishment. Moreover, because their ability to repay maturities is uncertain, they are not in a position to borrow a new bank loan. All the public actors, whether the prefect, the Chamber of Commerce and Industry or the departments of the Ministry of Finance, have addressed the problem – in vain. That is why these restaurateurs have turned to parliamentarians. At the national level, there is probably no plethora of such unusual situations. Therefore, only a case-by-case review seems to be possible. I would therefore like to know how the Government intends to take into account the extraordinary situation of professionals plunged into inextricable difficulties with dire financial and human consequences. Governmental listening appears to be the ultimate remedy that will allow, like Bruno The Mayor himself said, "We don't let anyone go to the carpet."
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u121	The next speaker is the Minister for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u122	Mr Garcia, I thank you first of all for reminding you of the Government's willingness to adapt the arrangements to the evolution of the crisis: in March 2020, the solidarity fund's aid was EUR 1500 for companies with fewer than 11 employees and with less than EUR 1 million in turnover; in November 2020, this aid rose to EUR 10000; Since December, the fund has offered either EUR 10000 aid or compensation equivalent to 20% of turnover; In January 2021, fixed costs were taken over. However, you are right, honourable Member: there are few cases in which these devices are not operating. You mentioned that of the companies which, after doing work, were unable to resume their activities and are now without adequate support. Following interventions by some Members and various exchanges which I have had, in particular in Strasbourg, a decree published last week provides for fixed costs, i.e. rents and all costs incurred by the institution when there is no activity, to be borne by the company's owners from January onwards. This first answer, which will find a very concrete translation, will allow all the entrepreneurs concerned to bring in a little money. You indicate your wish to see specific support put in place: I take this suggestion. With my firm, we regularly make sure to find ad hoc solutions. Once you have given me the contact details of these people, we will contact them to see what arrangements would suit them, whether they are aid for social contributions, support from the Council for the Social Protection of Self-Employed Workers (CPSTI) or others. I am well aware of the human issues behind your question. These men and women who have invested their money – often their own property – and who have a life plan, we must not let them down. You can count on me: we will quickly join this couple you talked about in order to try to find a solution, which goes beyond the support for the corporate buyers set up last week.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u123	Thank you, Minister Delegate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u124	Mr M'jid El Guerrab has the floor to put his question, No. 1469, on support for French entrepreneurs abroad.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u125	Mr Minister-in-Charge of Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises, I would like once again not to draw the Government's attention to the complicated situation of French entrepreneurs abroad and the possibilities of support that may be offered to them. First of all, I would like to thank you and your teams for your patience; I submit this subject on a regular basis, which is of particular interest to me. For several weeks now, I have been on the ground in contact with these entrepreneurs and promised them that when I returned, I would once again relay their concerns to the Government. French resident abroad, they own companies that are not registered in France and are therefore not in the radars of our economic diplomacy. These, however, contribute to the value chain of France's foreign trade. Indeed, they order goods and services from companies established in France and thus contribute directly to the preservation of employment in our country. More than half of them also use French products and especially the French brand. The link with our country remains very strong in all areas and more than 52% of them use French know-how in the field of intellectual property. However, they are also affected by the health and economic crisis. After a difficult 2020 fiscal year, they anticipate declining sales in 2021. There is even a fear that many will not be able to continue their activity. However, for the small entrepreneurs I met again last week, there is no safety net. To be completely honest, Minister Delegate, I should also like to welcome the action of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which has set up small social aid schemes such as the occasional aid of solidarity (SOS) or the transformation of the French abroad community support scheme (STAFE) into direct aid to entrepreneurs. However, it seems to me that we are still far from being on the sidelines of accompaniment and development. Last week, I was in Burkina Faso. I had the pleasure of meeting Mr Bouvier, a cheesemaker from Faso in Bobo-Dioulasso: 100,000 euros would be needed to develop the production of his cheese, made with love with milk from Montbéliard cows. I also spoke with Messrs. Pinon father and son, who manage Le Petit Potager, form marketers for sustainable agriculture, collect and distribute quality products throughout Burkina Faso. Only a small minority of these entrepreneurs access the financing of French banks or their branches, since 91% are excluded. In addition, there is frustration, an incomprehension, that of not being able to benefit, for example, from the State-guaranteed loan, because of European rules. We talked about it with your teams last week and in connection with your firm, we started working on concrete tracks. Minister Delegate, how can we help French entrepreneurs abroad, ambassadors of our know-how that the world envys us?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u126	The next speaker is the Minister for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u127	Mr President, this is the third time, I believe, that you have asked me this question, which is quite normal, given your responsibilities, and I have to admit that you know how to forcefully relay these concerns. In the immediate future, I cannot provide you with an answer that would suit you. You had the opportunity to meet with the members of my firm who examined the situation of these French entrepreneurs abroad with you. Existing arrangements are often insufficient and do not meet their expectations. I hope that we will go a little further to examine, together, in the next few days or weeks, specific cases and see if we can find ad hoc arrangements with the European bodies and our services to meet the needs of these entrepreneurs because there are currently no solutions for them. Bercy has been following this approach for fifteen months. I am not sure that we can do this because we cannot do miracles either, any minister we are, but I pledge to you to examine, like so many school cases, those cases of entrepreneurs who surely deserve as much as those we accompany on French territory to be taken into account.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u128	Mr M'jid El Guerrab has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u129	Thank you, Minister Delegate, for your attention. I know that French entrepreneurs abroad, who follow our debates closely, will be sensitive.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u130	Mrs Sandrine Josso has the floor to put her question, No. 1460, on the integration of people with glioblastoma.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u131	Glioblastoma affects about 4000 people a year and is a brain tumor, which, among all cancers currently being treated, gives rise to the darkest survival rate. Although it remains limited, its prevalence is increasing, as recalled by the French public health agency, according to which the number of cases was multiplied by four between 1990 and 2018, and the Inspectorate General of Social Affairs (IGAS), which estimates in its July 2020 report, that "the recent increase in incidence" is worrying. The causes of this cancer are still poorly or poorly identified, although recent studies highlight the harmful effects of pesticides, chemicals, certain metals, lead, mercury, and ionizing radiation. Treatment is not progressing due to difficulties in funding research, although innovative solutions are emerging in France and the United States. Finally, the path of care of the sick is a calvary, the consideration of which is lacuniary. People with glioblastoma are suffering from a rapid and debilitating deterioration in their state of health – problems with vision, language, motor skills and behaviour – and are applying for specific support, which is far too late to improve the lives of patients and caregivers. I would like to know to what extent the Government could encourage the competent services to speed up the processing of cases filed by patients with glioblastoma.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u132	The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Children and Families.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u133	I am replying instead of Sophie Cluzel, Secretary of State for Disabled Persons, on a subject that you know I am also interested in. This cancer pathology – glioblastoma, considered a rare disease – engages the functional and vital prognosis with a median life expectancy of 14.6 months. One of the answers to their need for accompaniment is the opening of rights to compensate for the loss of autonomy of people with this pathology and is particularly the responsibility of the departmental house for persons with disabilities (MDPH). The requests for the allocation of the disability compensation benefit (PCH), therefore the integration mobility card (IMC), raises various problems ranging from informing people about their rights to the time it takes for administrative procedures to allow for the opening of these rights. People's information is the primary lever of access to rights. The Caisse nationale de solidarité pour l'autonomy (CNSA) has paid particular attention to this issue in the context of the cancer plan 2014-2019. Work carried out in connection with the National Cancer Institute (INCA) has made it possible to formalise 24 fact sheets aimed at facilitating the link between the paediatric oncology service and the CDMH by presenting the steps to be taken, the different services and the conditions of access to these rights. They have been disseminated to all actors and should normally guide their daily practice. The second point of vigilance concerns accompanying the filing of applications with the CDMH, which is also a broad subject. This step can be complex. Therefore, in addition to the information on the approaches, support for the preparation of the case by the CDMH, either directly or through a network of partners, should be considered. The CDMH application form provides an opportunity to highlight the specificities of certain situations and to determine whether processing faster than the application is actually necessary. This is a specific procedure for assigning PCH as a matter of urgency. In addition, an interesting track is being deployed with a teleservice provided by CNSA, which is already being used in nearly sixty CDMHs to further facilitate the process, particularly for the most serious and urgent pathologies. More broadly, the quality of the service is the subject of a national benchmark annexed to the agreements concluded between the CNSA, the departments and the CDMH. The Government has made improving the service provided by the CDMH one of its priority actions, as you know – we have had an opportunity to discuss it. As such, he concluded a method agreement with the Assemblée des départements de France (ADF), because it is a departmental competence. Controlling the processing times of applications is a strong point; It is no longer acceptable for them to lie down. Compensation needs must be met not by setting up specific processes but by ensuring that existing procedures are properly mobilised. This involves identifying the urgency of the situation, accompanying the completion of files, conducting urgent investigation and assessment of the person's situation and needs, opening, where appropriate, a right to the PCH and confirming it following an assessment procedure.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u134	Mr Michel Larive has the floor to put his question, No. 1463, on the postal strike in Ariège.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u135	Have you heard of the "Ensuring My Parents" service proposed by a multi-centennial organization? For 19,90 euros a week, each customer can subscribe for his parents to a home visit service one to six times a week for "a friendly and caring exchange". It is in fact La Poste, a public service whose primary mission was the delivery of mail throughout the territory, which you and your predecessors have transformed into a public limited company with public capital. The "Looking after my parents" service is the perfect example of the commodification of the public service and of a grotesque misuse of the social and solidarity function of the factor. Ten years after the Ambition 2015 plan, which abolished 11,700 posts at La Poste in 2010, the next strategic plan 2022-2030 is part of a privatisation of public services at the expense of users' needs. In my rural district of Ariège, your work and that of your predecessors has resulted in a halving of the number of post offices in 20 years. The creation of communal postal agencies, held by town hall employees who are often poorly trained in the tasks they inherit, with a much lower level of service than a real post office, constitutes an insufficient spare wheel. For sixty-two days, the teachers and factors of Dreuilhe and Lavelanet en Ariège have been on strike to defend their working conditions and our public service. Strategic Plan 2022-2030 encourages the reorganization of factor tours by assigning more services to them without increasing their working hours. It will also transform the "sector centres" offices into "factors-windows" offices and promote further reductions in the number of windows per hour. Ultimately, this will lead to increased pressure on staff and thus to a deterioration in the quality of service. Deputy Minister for Small and Medium Enterprises, when do you intend to take action to put an end to this organised sabotage?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u136	The next speaker is the Minister for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u137	The health crisis has confirmed the essential nature of postal services for our citizens, especially for the most vulnerable and isolated of them. The Government is therefore very vigilant in the successful performance by La Poste of its public service tasks and in the level of quality of service to users. However, the traditional activity of La Poste, namely the transport and distribution of mail, is reduced inexorably: between 2008 and 2019, we went from 18 billion to 9 billion treated objects. In this context, La Poste reorganizes its distribution network while developing new activities in various sectors such as personal services, urban logistics or electronic commerce. The "Looking after my parents" system, which organizes on demand a regular presence by the factor with the elderly, is a perfect example of activity that relies on factors to develop new services. These adaptations are part of a global approach to the transformation of the industrial, economic and social model of the La Poste group in order to give it the means to continue to carry out the public service tasks entrusted to it by the legislator. The health crisis, by accelerating sharply the decline in the volumes of folds exchanged, makes it even more necessary to examine in depth the mission of universal postal service, whose financial balance is structurally degraded. This is why a mission has been entrusted to Mr Jean Launay, former Member of Parliament, with the aim of exploring the paths of evolution to ensure the economic balance of the postal service and an offer adapted to the needs of the French. Maintaining an end-to-end network through postal contact points is equally essential. The law establishes the obligation for La Poste to maintain at least 17,000 points of contact spread over the territory so that each Frenchman has access to a point of contact within five kilometres or twenty minutes of a car journey. However, La Poste has to adapt to the continuing decline in attendance at its offices and is required, in order to maintain local postal services, to transform its offices into other forms of contact points. The mail desks, where the mail clerk distributes the mail in the morning and welcomes clients in the office in the afternoon, are a particularly suitable response in rural areas. This type of organisation, which has been set up in Ariège in particular, allows the maintenance of the entire services. The evolution of the postal presence is particularly framed. Thus, in rural areas, where there is only one post office in the commune, no post office closure can take place without the mayor's prior formal agreement, and any plans to change the opening hours must also be exchanged with the mayor. Let me add that I have a small personal experience in this area: in the community of 800 inhabitants where I live and where I have been the deputy mayor for a few months, I have allowed the town hall to set up the postal service in excellent conditions. All the inhabitants welcome, I believe, the opportunity given to them to keep a service of both quality and proximity.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u138	Mr. Larive, you've got a few seconds left.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u139	It's not very fair-playing. For sixty-two days, Minister Delegate, the factors have been on strike. What do you tell them when some of them travel 235 kilometers a day and we're going to ask them to do more, when they had 370 mailboxes to do and they're going to have to make a thousand? A thousand mailboxes in urban areas, it's already huge; In rural areas it's huge. The Post Office must not be a place for the commodification of social life and solidarity. We should devote this institution as an absolutely indispensable public service, which it should never have ceased to be.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u140	The floor is open to Mrs Claire Guion-Firmin, to put forward her question, No. 1477, on income from active solidarity in Saint-Martin.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u141	My question again concerns the management of active solidarity income (ASR) in the overseas community of Saint-Martin. In 2016, on the basis of its legislative authority, the Territorial Council adopted a demonstrative deliberation of the RSA, cancelled the following year by the Council of State. In 2017, after the passing of Hurricane Irma, the Cohésia card allows the release of emergency funds in the form of a payment document. It is a success that allows Saint-Martin to demand the dematerialization of the RSA on its territory. In 2019, the principle of this dematerialization is adopted in the Finance Act and the four-year experiment is scheduled to begin on 1 July. Since then, nothing. The file is blocked because it does not propose a drafting that would suit the Council of State. The Minister of Overseas Affairs has recently told the Senate that he will not be able to do so, and Saint-Martin has been proposed for two years to take back normative jurisdiction, which she does not want. The priority of the community remains the reopening and above all the legal securing of the RSA's dematerialization file in order to concentrate its expenditures locally. My question is very simple: is the Government looking for a solution to unlock this issue that is of great importance to Saint Martin?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u142	The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Children and Families.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u143	Let me reply on behalf of the Minister for Overseas Affairs, Sébastien Lecornu, and the Minister for Solidarity and Health, Olivier Véran. As you said, the finance law for 2019 provided for the testing of a new method of issuing the RSA in the form of a payment document – specifically a prepaid payment card – from July 1, 2019, in Saint-Martin, but also in Guyana and Mayotte. On the basis of the recommendations of an inter-inspection mission, the Government decided to stagger the experiment by deploying it, as a first step, to the community of Saint-Martin. A first draft decree setting out the modalities for carrying out this experiment was duly submitted to the Council of State at the end of May 2019. It found the scheme unconstitutional, considering that the demonisation of the RSA did not correspond to the main objective of this social scheme, which aims to ensure that its beneficiaries have a minimum subsistence income. Moreover, according to the Council of State, there is no evidence that demonisation would advance the fight against fraud and the social and professional integration of beneficiaries. Finally, the Council of State held that the economic interests of traders could not justify such a restriction on the free availability of the RSA by its beneficiaries. Therefore, the dismantling of the device, even on an experimental basis, does not seem possible under today's conditions. In this context, the strengthening of the fight against fraud and the re-centralisation of the RSA in Saint-Martin remain avenues for discussion. If the Government is fully mobilized to improve the living conditions of the people of the community, you will agree that it is appropriate to do so within a strict legal framework, which we are dealing with in connection with all the local actors and elected representatives of whom you are.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u144	Mrs Claire Guion-Firmin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u145	Due to the crisis, an increase in social spending was anticipated by the Saint-Martin community, which budgeted EUR 14.3 million for the RSA in 2021, an increase of 3%. At a time when the expenditure associated with this scheme is going to increase significantly, it is essential to guarantee their financing for the benefit of the local economy.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u146	I call Mrs Beaudouin-Hubiere to speak on her question, No. 1471, concerning the fight against medical deserts.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u147	Two years ago, the National Assembly adopted the Law on the Organization and Transformation of the Health System and the Strategy "My Health 2022", which provided for a very large number of measures to combat medical desertification – one of the most emblematic and effective was the abolition of the numerus clausus. On the ground, we are still waiting for the benefits of these measures and the account is not there. For proof, the impossible situations faced by the mayors of the rural communes. For example, in my constituency, a commune of just 1500 inhabitants has been without a general practitioner for six months. There were three of them three years ago. The latter retired on December 31, 2020. Châteauneuf-la-Forêt was not considered to be an underdoing area during the last zoning. Despite various calls from the regional health agency, the ARS, successive mayors of the municipality and on my part, this zoning will not be reviewed for two or three years. Two or three years: this is the time we will have to wait before we hope for a solution... When a treating physician retires, it is not only the access to care, but the attractiveness of an entire municipality that is being challenged. How can we still attract residents to a community without a doctor while doctors in the surrounding communes, overcrowded, refuse any new patients? Mr Secretary of State for Children and Families, what is happening in our rural communes is Balzac's nightmare. Two hundred years ago, the writer described how the arrival of a doctor in a village in Dauphiné allowed him to become a prosperous city. Today, the opposite happens: every time a treating doctor leaves, it is a village that threatens to disappear. It appears that some professionals in the medical sector have forgotten that they are engaged in a profession of personal service and public service. Is it really surreal to consider an assignment obligation, not for the whole life, but for the first years of exercise? In any case, the situation is deteriorating and we cannot wait ten years for the end of the numerus clausus to finally produce its effects.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u148	The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Children and Families.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u149	Many territories, including that of the Haute-Vienne that you represent, the Member of Parliament, have difficulty encouraging the installation of new health professionals. By definition, certain measures, in particular the abolition of the numerus clausus, will only produce their effects in a few years, but other arrangements exist to overcome the difficulties encountered by certain territories, in particular rural territories such as the commune of Châteauneuf-la-Forêt. Among the measures put in place, notably in Upper Vienna, are the signing of public service contracts, the CESP, by medical students and practitioners of general medicine. Four general practitioners and one odontologist settled in the department thanks to this device. Similarly, since 2013, 18 general practitioners have benefited from a territorial practitioner's contract that guarantees them an improved level of income and social protection as a result of their installation. Moreover, since 1 January 2021, the start-of-exercise contract scheme, the famous CDE, has been open to all doctors who settle in a sub-dense area, as well as to replacements who work in these territories. Eligibility for this new contract is subject to a coordinated exercise mechanism and commitments on the proposed rates. In Haute-Vienne, a CDE is being signed for a doctor who settles in Saint-Léonard-de-Noblat and two other doctors have expressed the wish to sign one in the coming weeks. The plan for access to care initiated in 2017 also allowed to double the number of multi-professional health homes, the MSPs: 12 of them are open in Haute-Vienne; two are under construction for a current opening 2021; Two others are under study. The plan for access to care has also enabled the implementation of the medical convention and incentives to facilitate the installation of general practitioners. To date, four installation aid contracts, one doctor's territorial solidarity contract and five coordination contracts have been concluded in Haute-Vienne. Finally, the Access to Care Plan has promoted the use of digital tools and advanced consultations. Telemedicine has been deployed in all EHPADs in the department, as well as in two multi-professional health homes. I'm short of time to mention all the devices we're relying on – shared city-hospital general practitioner positions, assistant physician contracts, accelerated deployment of medical assistant positions – but I know you know them. I am thinking in particular of the territorial health professional communities, the CPTS, which provide for the coordinated exercise of health actors within a territory and one of which, created at the end of 2020, is being deployed in the Haute-Vienne. Three other projects covering two thirds of the department are also being set up or under consideration. In conclusion, the Government and the ARS are confident in the ability of these various mechanisms to respond to the issues at stake in the Haute-Vienne region. We will, of course, continue to work with the actors in the territories and with you, Madam Member, to improve the medical coverage of your department.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u150	Mrs. Sophie Beaudouin-Hubiere has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u151	I am glad that the SRA is confident, Mr. Secretary of State, but I expect her to be a little more agile! You mentioned the territory of Saint-Léonard-de-Noblat and the arrival of new doctors. Saint-Léonard-de-Noblat is not Châteauneuf-la-Forêt and the surrounding communes: I repeat, these rural communes do not appear in the area considered to be underfunded while they no longer have a single doctor... Finally, with regard to the obligation to install, I want to say that this measure has had very positive effects in Germany and Quebec. Maybe we should think about it together!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u152	Mr Hervé Saulignac has the floor to put his question, No. 1490, concerning the recruitment of medical assistants.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u153	Mr Secretary of State for Children and Families, I want to talk to you about the conventional arrangement for the recruitment of medical assistants. This system could greatly improve the access of our fellow citizens to doctors, but some territories are unfortunately deprived of it. As you know, in some free zones, underdenses, the primary health insurance fund, the CPAM, takes over the work of medical assistants, allowing doctors to focus on their core business – care, contact with patients – and increase their patientele from 20% to 30%, which is considerable. Many French territories are under-funded as community doctors. Unfortunately, this is the case with my department, the Ardèche, which is particularly concerned with this phenomenon. With 3 doctors per 1,000 inhabitants, compared with 6.6 at the national level, 88% of general practitioners in my department are obliged to refuse new patients, twice as many as the national average. In addition, 58% of Ardèche doctors are over 55 years of age. This situation is no longer tenable. Believe me, Secretary of State, the next popular revolt will not take place because of an increase in the price of fuel, but because we can no longer find family doctors! The Ardéchois can't stand him anymore. Clearly, conventional assistance in the recruitment of medical assistants would be a powerful means of remedying the congestion experienced by doctors. However, according to the zoning of the ARS established in 2018, certain ardéchois territories – such as Privas, Le Cheylard, Saint-Martin-de-Valamas, Bourg-Saint-Andéol, Le Teil or La Voulte-sur-Rhône – are not eligible for this scheme, which is quite incomprehensible given the headache of searching for a doctor when the family doctor has left or retired. Mr Secretary of State, is the Government considering extending this mechanism to finally give each Ardéchois the doctor to whom he is entitled? Otherwise, does he plan to revise the zoning of doctors?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u154	The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Children and Families.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u155	I will respond successively to the two points you raised in your question, Mr Saulignac. With regard to the recruitment of medical assistants, I would like to point out that there are five cumulative conditions for the recruitment of a medical assistant for a contracted doctor. The first is to exercise in the sector with opposable fees: the aid therefore concerns doctors in sectors 1 and 2, members of OPTAM (controlled tariff practice option) or OPTAM-CO (controlled tariff practice option surgery and obstetrics). The second condition, for certain specialties, concerns the place of exercise: while all specialties are potentially eligible, priority is given to doctors who practise in territories where the provision of care is insufficient. Of course, we understand the logic behind this condition. The third condition is to present a minimum level of initial patientele to justify the intervention of a medical assistant, since it is to achieve a level of activity above the thirtieth percentile of the specialty. The fourth condition is that the aid for the recruitment of a medical assistant concerns doctors working in a pooled manner. An assistant must be recruited by at least two doctors working in the same place, except for particularly isolated locations. The fifth condition is that doctors eligible for assistance must engage in a coordinated exercise approach, for example in a multi-professional health home. Finally, it should be noted that the amendment to the medical agreement complements the arrangement to assist in the recruitment of a medical assistant established by the amendment 7 by extending the areas in which assistance in the hiring of a medical assistant is possible, as well as those in which the doctor may be exempted from the obligation of a consolidated exercise. The second point of your question concerned the zoning of doctors, to which are related the recruitment issues. The primary objective of zoning is to promote the installation of general practitioners in underdensed areas in order to ensure equal access to the care of citizens in the territory. The zoning of doctors was stopped in 2018 and is currently being revised on the basis of a methodology defined at national level and in the process of updating – since 2018, the situations have obviously changed. This revision is being discussed in consultation with stakeholders and is expected to be effective by the end of 2021. It will leave more room for manoeuvre to the regions. Although it had been delayed as a result of the health crisis, the Government and the health authorities remained fully involved in that issue. This is not a promise, Mr. Saulignac, because I am not solely responsible for the decision, but I should like to know that the situations and difficulties you have listed will receive special attention in the next zoning. For the time being, let me recall that everything is not zoning and that we must encourage, in the territories, all innovative developments that will ensure optimal health coverage and equal access to the care you call for, as well as the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u156	Mr Hervé Saulignac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u157	Despite your caution, I cannot help but find in your answer a reason to hope. You mentioned the revision of the zoning and I want it to go fast. There's an emergency for the Ardèche. If the zoning of doctors was extended, we could offer 20% or 30% of the Ardéchois who are now deprived of a doctor a sanitary offer worthy of the name. As an elected member of a rural territory, it would be a great victory for me to be able to announce, before 2022, the revision of the zoning and the access of all the Ardéchois to a doctor!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u158	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor to put his question, No. 1483, concerning the hospital centre in Bastia.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u159	My question concerns the future of the Bastia Hospital; Indeed, the question I asked here on 23 March did not clarify the Government's intentions with regard to its participation in the project. The architectural diagnosis carried out in 2018 highlighted the saturation and the lack of security of the site, the inadequacy of medical and paramedical spaces, the lack of available surface area for emergency activities, the age of several logistical services or the difficulty of reaching the standard number of beds per hospital unit. These structural limitations have once again emerged in the context of the epidemic crisis, which has confirmed that this facility needs to be renovated. Only the remarkable commitment of hospital staff, which I have been able to measure personally, has made it possible to compensate for the shortcomings I have just mentioned. However, the share of the Bastia hospital in the care offer of Corsican territory is major: it directly affects the first population basin of Corsica and up to 600,000 people in the summer. However, the ministry's evasive responses to our inquiries leave the future of the hospital uncertain, either in situ or as a new building. At a meeting with the mayor of the city, the Ministry of Solidarity and Health undertook to create a multidisciplinary mission to assess the needs of the re-foundation of the hospital centre. I therefore ask the Government to clarify when this mission will be set up and to reaffirm its commitment, both technically and financially, to the re-establishment of the Bastia hospital, regardless of the project chosen.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u160	The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Children and Families.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u161	Indeed, I had the opportunity to answer your question at a previous sitting a few weeks ago. I therefore welcome your commitment and tenacity on this extremely important issue – as you recalled – for the inhabitants of Bastia and the surrounding area; We share your concern. I'm sorry I couldn't answer all your questions; I will endeavour to do so today by repeating the important and strong decisions that have already been announced. First of all, I would like to tell you that the entire ministry and the ARS Corse are mobilized for this project. I am not going to go back to all the points I had already raised in our last exchanges, but I would remind you that it is essential to move forward on the basis of the modernization operations already carried out. The project is ambitious: it concerns the main site of the hospital centre, in particular its technical platform. Last September, during his visit to Corsica – you remember – the President of the Republic reiterated the State's commitment to support the construction of an extension for emergencies, the creation of a helipad and the restructuring of critical healthcare sectors. As you know, this concerns a hospital with a very deteriorating financial situation, despite the 77 million euros of national cash aid paid between 2012 and 2019. Of course, Bastia's investments, like those of Ajaccio, are 100% financed by the State through the so-called Segur envelope. This hospital is one of the main priorities of Ségur's investment component. The scientific council of Ségur will appoint very soon the team of experts that we mentioned a few weeks ago and whose aim is to speed up the conduct of this project. We obviously measure the legitimate impatience of caregivers, patients and elected officials – of whom you are a member, Mr. Be convinced that the department's and the SRA's teams are working hard on this and I know that you talk to them very frequently. I have no doubt that the Minister of Solidarity and Health, Olivier Véran, will inform you as soon as possible of the developments in this dossier which you are following with attention – it is quite normal – in particular with regard to the appointment of the committee of experts, which should allow the project to accelerate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u162	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u163	I addressed you in writing, as you know, on 16 December 2020 and 4 March 2021, and I interviewed you here on 23 March. Despite these repeated requests, we have no answer. I would remind you, therefore, that the Bastia hospital is obsolete, that it responds only in an unsatisfactory way to the demand – and again, only thanks to the self-sacrifice of its staff – that it covers by its influence 60 % of the population of Corsica and up to 600,000 people in summer time, that important financial resources are available within the framework of the Ségur and that the Government must respond to the unanimous request for renovation, from the city of Bastia, of the hospital staff and incidentally of the deputy of the territory. Bastia – listen to me carefully – must be involved in the installation of the university hospital centre (CHU) in Corsica: the city cannot be set aside as part of this decisive project. On the merits, Mr. Secretary of State, you know the case. Now we have to act.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u164	Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor to put her question, No. 1464, concerning the Jean-Verdier hospital in Bondy.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u165	Mr Secretary of State, you are aware that the health crisis has shed a raw light on some of the shortcomings in our health system. In particular, it has shown the need to maintain a strong network of community-based services in our territories, in this case community-based hospital infrastructure capable of helping to absorb shocks such as that caused by the pandemic. My department of Seine-Saint-Denis was particularly struck by the crisis. The municipality of Bondy, in my electoral district, is one of the ones where the virus has been most circulating: the incidence rate has exceeded 1000 cases per 100,000 inhabitants. Yet it is in the same city that the threat of a gradual dismantling of the Jean-Verdier hospital has been high for several years. This threat gives rise to the legitimate concern of our fellow citizens and the health workers who work there; In 2019, a petition had collected nearly 9200 signatures. This concern is shared by all parliamentarians in the territory concerned, both right and left, as it is a matter of general interest. It is also shared by the mayor of the municipality and the President of East Ensemble, who sent a letter to the director of the ARS. The presence of a nearby public hospital must be sanctified. Guarantees must be provided to ensure that people have a diverse range of care, not just a place of consultation. Without this, the deleterious ambulatory shift and the crazy logic of the territorial groupings of hospital groups will be endorsed, while they are not adapted to all diseases or populations. However, the project of the new hospital Jean-Verdier still gives rise to many doubts. The maintenance of emergencies seems to have been done, but what about the small surgery, which calls for a resuscitation service, an ambitious technical tray and beds for the care and follow-up of chronic diseases? It is this type of offer that must be maintained in cities like Bondy. In the wake of the health crisis that we have been through and in view of the continuing threats to the Jean-Verdier hospital, what guarantees can you give me as to the maintenance of this type of services that form the basis of a true community hospital?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u166	The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Children and Families.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u167	Thank you for your question, which has already been discussed with several of your colleagues – in particular MM. Coquerel and Corbière, who also belong to the group La France insoumis and are elected in the same department as you. The plan "The Stronger State in the Seine-Saint-Denis", which concerns this department, includes an important part of health, because the fight against health inequalities is a fight that must be waged tirelessly – we were talking about it earlier about more rural territories, but it is also essential in territories such as the Seine-Saint-Denis. The plan in question includes support for the department's hospitals, investment in heavy diagnostic equipment and support for the installation of doctors, because medical desertification does not only affect rural areas – as we know, it also affects dense urban areas. The relaunch of investments in the health care system, with €19 billion at the end of the Ségur de la santé, will also help to strongly support the provision of care in Seine-Saint-Denis. With regard to the Jean-Verdier hospital in Bondy, on which your question is particularly concerned, the AP-HP – Assistance publique-Hôpitaux de Paris – has been working for several years with the medical community to achieve greater complementarity between the various sites of the Paris Seine-Saint-Denis University Hospitals, in particular between Jean-Verdier and Avicenne – which I know well –, located in the territory of the neighbouring municipality of Bobigny. The AP-HP project is twofold: on the one hand, to improve the provision of care in this territory; on the other hand, to bring the premises up to standard and to improve the working conditions of carers. The project was never intended to close Jean-Verdier; Some services will be concentrated on Avicenne to offer residents a more efficient offer. The new Jean-Verdier, if I can afford to call him that, has a vocation to become a site of community care services, including an emergency service, a day hospital and specialty consultations. In particular, it will develop prevention policies and the links between city care and the hospital, which we know to be one of the critical issues of our health system; we need it because their absence creates ruptures in the care pathways of our fellow citizens. The Jean-Verdier site will retain continuous care beds that will be added to the resuscitation beds at the Avicenne site. I am convinced that many years ago the inhabitants of the Seine-Saint-Denis hoped for a better organization of their health environment. This is what it is about to do thanks to this project, by improving the prevention and quality of care, but also – I insist – the working conditions of the caregivers.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u168	Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u169	You answer me by taking on a project that is in the process of being tied, which we know and which, precisely, worries us. What worries us is, for example, the removal of small surgery requiring resuscitation, and it is also the decrease in the number of beds. In the light of the crisis that has just taken place, we would like to reopen the debate on the services and the technical platform that should exist, when the draft seems to be endorsed. Your intervention, rather than providing answers, is worrying.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u170	Mr Alain Bruneel has the floor to put his question, No. 1465, on complex health pathways.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u171	I would like to draw your attention to the regional strategy of the regional health agency (ARS) of the Hauts-de-France regarding the unification of the coordination support mechanisms (DAC), provided for by the law on the organisation and transformation of the health system of 24 July 2019. It provides for the creation of support mechanisms for the population and professionals, with a view to coordinating complex health pathways by the end of July 2022 at the latest. In my territory, I met with representatives of the customs health platform, founded in 2007. It has a unique number and has developed several devices: one dedicated to the prevention of chronic diseases, another to the accompaniment of the beneficiaries of the AHR, plus a cancer resources area, a palliative care network, a city health workshop, a local mental health council and a health sports house. This association has been organised for many years with all the actors of the territory by developing an operational coordination allowing to make the organisation of health routes legible and to meet the needs of citizens and professionals on a daily basis; It thus provides indispensable support for the resolution of complex situations. There is also a strong network between all professionals who want to preserve such synergy, in order to guarantee a service of close proximity indispensable to users as well as to professionals. In its regional strategy, the regional health agency of Hauts-de-France has defined territories by imposing a minimum population grid of 300,000 inhabitants, without really taking into account the flow of users and the realities of the field. For example, the territories of a mining basin, that of Douaisis, are forced to merge with metropolitan territories, those of Lille-Sud-Est. Yet the health and social realities of these two territories have nothing to do with it. The implementation of DACs in the Hauts-de-France region, carried out by a mandated firm supposed to fluidize and simplify the health system, could ultimately make it more complex by creating new structures. Future centralized governance generates serious concerns among actors on the ground, who will face multiple challenges in a short period of time; They fear that the local dynamics involved will suffer a significant weakening. In this unprecedented health context, in which all health actors are indispensable to get out of the crisis, it is clear, once again, that these heroes are not being listened to. Lack of consultation could lead to disengagement and exhaustion of health actors. All the employees of the Customs Health Platform and the actors of the territory wished to inform me of their concern about this project. They expect support and minimum consultation with field representatives. Above all, they want this plan not only to save money at the expense of the population. Could you, Secretary State, confirm to me that the forced and unnatural merger between the Douaisis and the Lille metropolis will be re-examined?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u172	The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Children and Families.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u173	Mr Bruneel, I can at least assure you that the process of consultation is at the heart of the development of these DACs and closer to the needs and realities of the territories. The ARS des Hauts-de-France is fully committed to this process, in connection with all the actors in the territory, including the elected representatives, starting with yourself. Let's get back to the frame. The unification of health networks, so-called "method of action" schemes for the integration of care and assistance services (AMIA), territorial support coordinations (CTAs), journeys of elderly people at risk of loss of autonomy (PAERPA) and territorial support platforms (PATs) must, according to the law, be completed in July 2022 within the DACs. As their name indicates, these are intended to support the coordination of health pathways, perceived as complex, regardless of the age and pathology of the person. The main aim is to support professionals in a territory in the health, social and medical-social fields, but the scheme also helps to respond in a coordinated manner to people and their caregivers. This reform, followed in the framework of the Ségur de la santé, therefore meets a twofold objective: to simplify access to support and coordination for professionals; total coverage of the territory to combat breaches of equal access to care and care routes. The Decree of 18 March 2021 on DAC states that "the tasks of the coordination support mechanism shall be carried out by a single legal person per territory, having concluded a multi-annual contract of objectives and means with the regional health agency concerned, if necessary in conjunction with the departmental councils. In this case, the RSA concerned is that of Hauts-de-France. The area of intervention of the DACs is therefore not defined a priori in the regulatory texts, precisely in order to better meet the needs of professionals and individuals as well as local strategies. However, the national policy framework states: "The territory of the DACs is defined on the proposal of the actors who are intended to participate in their governance on the basis: from the habits of recourse of the population to the social, medico-social and health offer; existing collaborations and initiatives; the ability to mobilize stakeholders to meet the service objectives outlined above; the need to pool resources within the DAC to support their efforts; the other territories, in particular the territories for the organization of social, medico-social and health supply. » In other words, proximity must be preferred for the implementation of support to professionals, as long as it guarantees the quality of the service rendered. I know, honourable Member, that the SRA is careful to meet these objectives, not to upset local habits when they respond to established and relevant situations. The dialogue must be constant. It is, and the department will ensure that it remains, without interfering with decisions that affect local territories and communities and that, I repeat, must be anchored as closely as possible to realities and needs. I know how to count on your vigilance to make sure.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u174	Mr Aurélien Taché has the floor to put his question, No. 1487, on child psychiatry in Val-d'Oise.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u175	To be sad and anxious, to be lost in a world in bad shape, to suffer a great sense of ill-being and to worry about its future: this is what it is, not to be 21 years old, but 8, 12 or 17 years old in 2021. Covid-19 has revealed in these children, pre-teens or young adults insidious and lancinating existential anxieties to which you are sensitive, I know. In this context, I would like to alert you, Mr. Secretary-General for Children and Families, to the dangerous medical desertification which is particularly affecting my department in Val-d'Oise. Paedopsychiatry is particularly affected by this phenomenon, with very serious consequences for the provision of care and follow-up to the children and young people concerned, whether in the short or long term. The current health crisis aggravates this problem that all health specialists already call "third psychiatric wave". This lack of appropriate care and follow-up has a significant impact on children – the risk of early school and social drop-out – but also on parents who sometimes have to leave their jobs to take care of their offspring. The waiting lists for these specialists to be consulted continue to grow. My constituency – the tenth of Val-d'Oise, a young and popular department – has three child-psychiatric care centres: the René-Dubos hospital in Osny and the two day hospitals located in Cergy-le-Haut and the other in Cergy-Prefecture. To date, nearly 600 children have been placed on the waiting list. On average, it takes two years to get a consultation, which is all the less normal since some young people are in a situation of absolute urgency. Children are sent home, alone, who were sometimes about to end their lives. They pose a danger to themselves and their loved ones. When we know that psychiatrists see suicide attempts in younger and younger children, do we have to wait for the terrible passages to do something about it? This problem is the direct result of the distribution of care between Paris intra-muros – which concentrates the largest university hospital centre (CHU) in Europe and seven medical faculties – and the great crown. Outlying departments have much more limited resources for an area that still has a population of 10 million and is constantly expanding. At the Hospital of Pitié-Salpêtrière, there is a full time for fifteen children followed, compared to 0.10 for the same number of children in Cergy. There is only one intern in psychiatry at Cergy Hospital, compared to 15 in Robert Debré Hospital. Internships to be held in the suburbs or in peripheral areas are regularly cancelled and replaced by specialisation in Paris. What are the Government's plans to end this unequal access to care that affects many sectors other than psychiatry? In some specialties where demand is high, can the distribution of interns between the AP-HP and the institutions of the great crown be rebalanced? What do you think of the idea of imposing a permanence of care in the private sector? This solution is advocated by many health professionals, including child psychiatrists, in order to remove certain services from public hospitals that have been stormed and to allow an equitable distribution of the work to be done.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u176	The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Children and Families.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u177	Since I joined the ministry two and a half years ago, I haven't made a single move without hearing about the problems of child psychiatry. Your description of the situation in Val-d'Oise applies to all departments, regardless of their typology. Each time I travel, I'm told about lists and waiting times in medical-psychological centres (MPCs), creating unacceptable health inequalities. That is why, as early as 2018, Agnès Buzyn had developed the roadmap for mental health and psychiatry. Some 30 million euros had come in addition to the 80 million euros released in 2019 to develop the supply of psychiatry in the territories, in order to finance two regional projects that were further abounded in the future. It had also been decided – because everything does not depend on the financial aspect – to create ten posts of head of clinic assistant in child psychiatry every year. Within the framework of the Secur de la santé, 160 positions of psychologists will be created in the CMPs. Last year, following the work of the "first 1000 days" commission, you granted EUR 10 million to strengthen perinatal psychiatry when the draft law on the financing of social security was adopted: it is important to act as soon as possible alongside parents to prevent situations from deteriorating. To sum up, child psychiatry is at the heart of my action and my concerns. In Val-d'Oise, the offer of infant-child pedopsychiatry currently includes fifty full-time hospital beds, 130 day and night reception places, 15 medical-psychological centres, 11 part-time therapeutic reception centres and three mobile pedopsychiatry teams. As demand is very high, the delays in taking care of them are too long, of an unacceptable duration. Thanks to the law of 24 July 2019 on the organization and transformation of the health system, we have put an end to the numerus clausus in medical studies, but its effects on medical demography will be progressive. In order to attract more psychiatrists to Val-d'Oise, so-called clinician contracts, on derogatory financial terms, are proposed by the health authorities. As far as interns are concerned, the RSA is working with their representatives, university deans and hospitals to ensure a better distribution of these doctors between Paris and the region as a whole, ensuring that the number of positions proposed corresponds to each other's needs. There is a need for projects that will attract health professionals. For example, €1.3 million has just been allocated to Val-d'Oise to develop psychiatry projects related to perinatality and support for children entrusted to social assistance for children – as you know, these two subjects are entangled. There is also a need to develop medical-psychological centres and psychologists' posts in the homes of adolescents, as I mentioned in referring to the Ségur de la santé. In conclusion, I note that child psychiatry will be one of the pillars of mental health, organized this summer, which will address all topics: means, CMP, filiarization and others. In the area of prevention, I would point out that we have put in place the 100% child shrink package. Upon the simple prescription of the doctor – family, school or maternal and child protection (PMI) – children will be able to benefit from 10 free consultations with a psychologist from the beginning of June.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u178	We have concluded the oral questions without debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-25-O1282.u179	Next meeting, at 3 p.m.: Questions to the Government; Solemn votes on the draft law and the draft organic law on trust in the judicial institution; Reading the conclusions of the Joint Joint Committee on the draft law on the management of the exit from the health crisis; Consideration of the proposal for a law on emergency measures to ensure the regulation of access to agricultural land through member structures. The meeting is adjourned.
