ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u1	The next item is the discussion, after the accelerated procedure has begun, of the draft law authorizing the extension of the state of emergency and postponing the expiry date of the health crisis regimes (No 3733, 3739).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u2	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u3	Mr. Chair, ladies and gentlemen, the succession of bills extending the state of health emergency is unprecedented. Everyone agrees and everyone agrees, at the same time, that what we have been living for almost a year is also new. The animal health measures taken over the past several months have limited the spread of the virus. They have prevented the saturation of resuscitation services, but the epidemic of covid-19 is still actively circulating in France as well as in Europe and in a large part of the world. The spread of the epidemic remains at a high level and tends to accelerate again; We're kind of on a wire, with a virus circulation responsible for about 19,000 to 20,000 contaminations every day, and a sanitary pressure that doesn't decrease. We are extremely vigilant about the current developments and everyone must remain mobilised, especially because of the VOC 2020 variant, which comes from England, and the variant 501. These two variants are circulating on the national territory, as well as in many countries around the world, and we are engaged in a real race against time to avoid their spread. Since the beginning of 2020, the epidemic has caused the deaths of more than 700,000 people in our country. Who could have predicted a year ago that 2020 would be the year we lived? It was simply unthinkable. But we have faced and still have to stand. Indeed, the pressure on the health system remains strong. Yesterday there was an increase in the number of hospitalizations and admissions in resuscitation: 25,000 patients were hospitalized, of which 2,800 were in resuscitation. If the national situation seems to remain under control at this stage, what we are seeing in our neighbours, with the detection of variants, demonstrates the existence of an increased risk of epidemic recovery despite the measures taken to limit imports of cases from abroad. The state of health emergency has been declared since 17 October 2020 throughout the national territory and, at the request of the Government, you have extended it until 16 February 2021. This state of health emergency has enabled the Government to take, on the basis of article L. 3131-15 of the Public Health Code, the necessary measures proportionate to the health disaster by limiting, inter alia, the movement of persons out of their homes, gatherings on public roads and in places open to the public and access to certain establishments. The examination of the current health situation and the study of the forecasts for the first half of the year show that this extension is now indispensable and requires further intervention by the legislator; Article 2 provides for the extension of the state of emergency until 1 June 2021. As for Article 1 – excuse me for not presenting the articles in order – it is also intended to extend a date, in this case by extending the date of lapse of the health emergency regime initially fixed on 1 April 2021 by Article 7 of the Law of 23 March 2020. When considering the first text on the state of health emergency, the Senate had considered it more prudent to give temporary character to these provisions, given the particularly rapid conditions for the development of this legal framework; This sunset clause proposed by the Senate had been approved by Parliament under the Act of 23 March 2020. On 31 December 2021, the provisions of the Public Health Code governing the state of health emergency will disappear from the legal order; This sunset clause, known to all, which I have had the opportunity to mention on several occasions in this House, had motivated the bill introduced last December aimed at persevering in the public health code the tools that can be activated in the event of a health crisis. This text, as you know, has finally been removed from the agenda and will be discussed in Parliament once the crisis is behind us. However, we need to maintain in the Code the provisions that can be applied to combat the crisis; that is the meaning of Article 1. It is not possible to deprive ourselves by the end of the year of a legal framework dedicated to the management of the most critical phases of the health crisis. I hear criticism of the twelve-month deadline proposed by the Government, but it is consistent with the desire to legislate cold once the crisis has passed. On the subject of deadlines, I understand that Parliament wants more frequent re-visit clauses; This led, during the examination in committee, to the deletion of Article 3 which provided for the extension of the regime for exiting the state of emergency until 30 September. I note that the relevance of this mechanism has not been questioned. This scheme, which is intended as a relay to the state of emergency, proved its usefulness last summer: it allows for the maintenance of preventive measures adapted to the situation in which the health situation improves significantly while continuing to present significant health risks. The Law Commission considered that the reactivation of the exit regime should be questioned at the appropriate time, depending on the changes in the health situation and the adaptations it will require. If conditions so require, the Government will therefore appear before Parliament before the end of the state of health emergency scheduled for 1 June, in order to determine the appropriate regime for managing the situation after that date. Article 4 extends the implementation of the information systems established to combat the spread of the epidemic until 31 December 2021. Finally, Article 5 extends to overseas countries the provisions which require it. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] It is a text of technical appearance, but essential for the protection of our compatriots, which I present to you today, a text of responsibility. I understand the fatigue and the desire to get out of the crisis, but today we cannot deprive ourselves of any tools to fight the virus. If the best days are coming soon, we must for some time again lead the gigantic collective effort begun almost a year ago.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u4	Mr Jean-Pierre Pont, rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, the last time we found ourselves in this Chamber three months ago, France faced the beginning of a particularly strong second wave which once again put our country and our healthcare staff to the test. While some countries of the European Union are still facing very virulent epidemic pressure, we must bear in mind that, as a result of the second confinement, France is in a health situation that remains extremely fragile and must encourage caution. The minister has just reminded us of the reality of this health situation that the Scientific Council itself has described as fragile and uncertain. Two elements must be taken into account today: on the one hand, the maintenance of a high level of the number of new daily infections, which can change the health situation at any time, and on the other hand, the particularly worrying appearance of variants of the virus. The second state of health emergency we know has been in force since 17 October. Since then, we have passed a prorogation bill, now the act of November 14. In the face of the second wave, there was a first curfew phase, a second confinement and, since 15 December, a new curfew phase whose conditions were tightened last Saturday. The Constitutional Council and the Council of State are very clear: only the state of health emergency regime provides a legal basis for these particularly restrictive measures. The 18-hour curfew is a difficult and challenging measure at the beginning of the year. As some have suggested, it could be rejected, emptied of its substance or prevented the Government from acting. But while the circulation of the virus leads to 20,000 new infections every day, do we want, in the weeks following this decision, to have to deplore a sharp increase in deaths? Is it worth recalling that Germany experienced 1700 deaths yesterday and Britain 1600? The state of health emergency is certainly not coercive measures that would be taken out of pleasure or convenience to force the French. The aim of this regime is to protect them, for example when it allows for the strengthening of health control at the borders decided last Thursday by the Government. As the state of health emergency comes to an end on 16 February, it therefore seems necessary to extend it once again in view of the persistence of the epidemic, not only in our territory but also throughout Europe and the world. That is the purpose of the bill on which the Law Commission voted and which is now being put to the vote in our House. This is the sixth text on the state of health emergency that we have been discussing since March 2020. In the absence of a permanent regime, Article 1 extends from 1 April to 31 December 2021 the framework of the regime in force, which has proved its worth since last March. This article does not automatically extend the current state of health emergency until that date, as may have been erroneously said in the press or in committee. In accordance with article L. 3131-13 of the Public Health Code, this framework allows the Government to trigger a state of health emergency for four weeks and the Parliament to extend its application if necessary. There is therefore no automatic extension of the state of emergency until the end of the year, but simply the renewal of a legal framework enabling the executive and Parliament to meet the needs of the moment. To the extent that this article sets only one framework, the extension proposed in Article 1 appeared to the law committee adapted to continue the fight against the epidemic of covid -19, but also to give us time to determine the lasting regime that will succeed it. Article 2 provides Parliament with an extension of the state of emergency in force pursuant to Article L. 3131-13 of the Public Health Code. The duration of this extension – three and a half months, until 1 June 2021 – appears to be fully adapted and proportionate to the state of the health situation. While the Law Commission supported the extension provided for in Article 2, it nevertheless removed the extension provided for in Article 3 for the transitional regime. This article made applicable until 31 September 2021 the transitional arrangements for exiting the state of health emergency. This scheme was very useful after 18 July to allow a gradual and orderly exit of the first state of health emergency, in an uncertain health context; It also enabled the Parliament to continue its strengthened monitoring of the Government's activities. However, the Committee on Laws has considered that the future regime for exiting this second state of health emergency should, as in July, be determined by Parliament at the appropriate time, in the light of the changes in the health situation and the adjustments it will require. In view of the deletion of article 3, the Government will request Parliament before 1 June, not before 30 September, as this article would have allowed, in order to determine the legal response to the health situation after that date. With each extension text – I remind you that we are in the sixth – all the rapporteurs, including me, legitimately hope that it will be the last. As a doctor, and not a guess, I cannot predict the evolution of the health situation by spring; I know, however, that we will, no matter what, need transitional measures to accompany the gradual exit from the health crisis. Since the re-visit clause is set for 1 June, we will be meeting for the seventh time in May. However, I remain hopeful that the text we will be debating will not be a bill to extend the state of health emergency, but a bill to move it out. Article 4 allows for the implementation of the "test, trace, isolate" strategy and further research on the virus. Without this ability to track infected people and their contact cases, we cannot break transmission chains and combat the epidemic effectively. This is why it is proposed to extend the SIDEP information systems – the national population screening information system – and Contact Covid until 31 December 2021. The shelf life of the data collected is not changed, but is limited to three months for the identifying data. Finally, Article 5 extends the application of the legal framework for the state of emergency in the field of health to the overseas communities, where the state of emergency in the field of health applies in accordance with their specific characteristics. It seems to me that the text thus submitted to us is balanced and necessary. It is balanced because the proposed extension periods make it possible to ensure that Parliament will again be seized in the spring on the legal follow-up to be given to developments in the health situation, and that it is thus fully recognised as a key player in the state of health emergency. This text is also essential, because we cannot deprive ourselves of a legal framework which we have, on all these benches, helped to consolidate in order to ensure the effectiveness of the fight against covid-19 and to provide many guarantees to our citizens. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM groups and Action ens]] I will therefore be vigilant about the preservation of the general framework of the state of health emergency that has proved its worth since last March. Unfortunately, the time has not yet come to lower the guard.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u6	I have received a motion from Ms. Valérie Rabault and members of the Socialists and Related Group to reject in advance pursuant to Rule 91(5) of the Rules of Procedure. Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor for a period of not more than 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u7	We have already worked on several occasions on the establishment or extension of the state of emergency, and we will do so for the sixth time with the consideration of this text. The various laws that have been passed in this House have been accompanied by decrees prescribing general measures necessary to deal with the epidemic of covid-19 or declaring the state of emergency health. Today, the Government is asking us to extend the state of health emergency by four months, identically, without any assessment of the measures it has allowed. It is a text presented as a technical text, but its effects on the lives of everyone could continue until the end of the year. Of course, the evolution of the pandemic, the emergence of mutations in the virus, the use of prophylaxis or prevention methods, the mobilization of care services are data that must determine the decisions to be taken. However, these determinants must not always make us forget certain principles: as Professor of Law Dominique Rousseau said last spring, "we can understand that the exercise of freedoms is different in normal times and in exceptional times, but, as we remain in a rule of law, the fundamental principles must be respected. They are, because control is guaranteed by Parliament, by the judge, but also by the press. » The Socialist and Related Group requested the inclusion and discussion of a motion of rejection for several reasons. Our first motivation is the lack of discussion on the stocktaking and the strategies implemented. The massive campaign launched in our country raises many questions. Since last spring, it has been told and repeated to the French and French that we are engaged in a speed race. Since then, several vaccines have been developed, which have demonstrated their effectiveness and safety. Health experts call for the French to be vaccinated quickly, with a double objective: on the one hand, to protect the most exposed and the most fragile, on the other hand, thus promoting collective immunity while a variant of the covid is spreading more contagious, thus potentially more morbid and deadly in view of the number of people who can be affected. Just listen to the radio, read the newspapers or watch television to realize that the message is the same everywhere: you have to vaccinate as many people as quickly as possible so that this English variant doesn't even hurt more than you've ever experienced. Yet, throughout the country, it is the same observation: "Too much waiting," a local newspaper in my city was headlined this morning. This afternoon, on the site of a platform to which the ministry's website refers to make an appointment, no availability can be offered until a period which, according to the centres, ranges from eight days to three weeks... Our compatriots are therefore subjected to various fortunes which would justify logistical constraints, not only in order to access the vaccine, but also simply to have an idea of when this will be possible, even for the publics identified as priorities. You will tell us that all this is known, that the situation will improve, that the number of people vaccinated will increase throughout the next few weeks, that there would be just three months difficult to hold... We are not reassured by these words, which are intended to be reassuring, because we have not had an open and transparent discussion of the reality of the measures taken and to be taken in our Assembly. Last November, our group tabled a motion for a resolution on the vaccination strategy, calling for a precise definition of the conditions for the supply, storage, allocation and distribution of covid vaccines, but it was not included, let alone discussed. I say this without aggression or irresponsibility: I regret that the proposals made by all here have not been better taken into account by the Government. I do not believe that it is enough to say that the elected representatives who ask questions are irresponsible or driven by political back-thinks to question the need for a broad and democratic discussion. What is the link between this motion to reject the text and this first element of context, namely the difficulties of vaccination, but also of programming and visibility for the coming weeks? It is simple: we are discussing a project to establish and extend a state of emergency for a fairly long period, without having the capacity to discuss, in a collegial, contradictory, transparent and public manner, the conditions under which and for which this state of emergency will be put in place, not only until June, but until the end of the year for certain complementary measures. How can we decide on the duration of the state of emergency without being able to discuss or discuss the Government's implicit or explicit strategies? How can we decide on the same period without having a real balance sheet? In the absence of a balance sheet, we cannot assess the effectiveness of the measures already implemented, decide whether curfews should be put in place rather than regional or national confinement, whether the closure of cultural places should be maintained, or whether telework should be carried out at the sole discretion of the undertakings concerned. Parliament must be able to debate the correlation between the timing of the deployment of the vaccine strategy and the sunset dates of the plans provided for in the March 2020 Act. However, as it stands, the Government proposes to extend the period of lapse of the health emergency regime until the end of 2021. In the Committee on Laws, some colleagues have suggested that there may be further extensions until 2022. The second reason for our rejection motion is the lack of an assessment of known, shared and discussed medical and scientific data. Not only do we not know what the Government's strategy is for ensuring and deploying vaccination without a blow, but we only have scientific and medical information that is reduced to the proportion of vaccination. We reiterate our observations on the need for scientific and medical data, and not just epidemiological data to which the explanatory memorandum refers. The available scientific data, which are not mentioned in the bill, were not included in the decree of 14 October 2020 declaring a state of health emergency – the text merely indicated that they would be published in the future... We are concerned that decisions have been and continue to be taken without the scientific and operational data being subjected to discussion and the possible contradiction of broad expertise, to which Parliament has every reason to be associated. This is also the meaning of the recommendations made by the National Assembly's mission on the health emergency regime, to which I shall return in a few moments. The third and final reason for our motion for a motion to reject beforehand is that we have in no way been able to discuss the proposals made by the Assembly's mission to improve the conditions of a state of emergency. Indeed, the state of emergency is renewed and extended over time without any progress being made on guarantees and measures not only to allow the parliamentary debate on the scenarios to be considered and the arrangements to be made, but also – this is still one of the reasons for Parliament's being – to allow for a public debate and not only in an emergency. If a significant part of our citizens is vaccinated after the summer of 2021, we will be able to switch to a transitional exit regime or, failing that, to a new perennial regime that will have benefited from a full parliamentary debate according to a classic timetable. The Government could, in any case, discuss its draft law for a sustainable health emergency management regime and, in that case, a new bill with the same ambition would be discussed. Will he take into account the work of the Gosselin-Houlé mission to which I referred? We don't know that. This discussion, I repeat, would make it possible to take the decisions most adapted to the reality of the territories, but also those that are most likely to improve the observance – as is said for medical treatment – of the decisions of the state by the French and French. For all these reasons, we call for the rejection of the project as proposed, because it is disconnected from the assessment of the measures taken, it remains unrelated to the strategies implemented and it moves us away from measures to improve its control, its improvement and therefore its effectiveness.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u8	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u9	Before the representatives of the groups can speak on this motion of rejection, I would like to recall the practical consequences of its adoption for the French: it would be to prevent an extension of the state of emergency beyond the period of February, and to bring down all collective provisions aimed at protecting the French, such as curfew. One can take the opportunity to put forward a motion to convey messages, as MP Karamanli has just done; But to vote on a motion which, I repeat, would prevent a curfew or any other containment measure from being put in place, would be to cross a line which I naturally call on you, in all responsibility, not to cross.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u10	We come to the explanations of vote on the motion to reject it beforehand. Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u11	I will be brief, because we have already discussed these issues on several occasions. First of all, I would like to remind the minister that we were not under a state of emergency when the first confinement was decided, which clearly shows that this decision can be made independently of the state of emergency.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u12	No, she can't!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u13	In addition, an editorial published yesterday in Le Monde pointed out that the Government, obsessed with the demand to go fast, is exposed to a great risk, that of acting blindly. This is the whole problem: no one denies the need to take exceptional and rapid measures; What we are contesting is that it is necessary to use an exceptional regime and to put parliamentary democracy in the brink. This is not done in any of the other European countries, where similar measures are taken, but by allowing democracy to live. And the more a decision is made within narrow boundaries without being subject to criticism and debate, the more likely it is to be inappropriate to the realities of the country. The Group of the Democratic and Republican Left will therefore vote in favour of this motion of rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u14	Mr Guillaume Gouffier-Cha has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u15	Dear colleague Marietta Karamanli, we do not understand this motion to reject, except, as the minister has pointed out, that it offers you an opportunity for expression and some form of criticism; But we do not understand it in the light of the daily health crisis affecting our fellow citizens and forcing us to use tools to fight the virus and break transmission chains. The state of emergency is one that allows us to implement several actions. By defending this motion, you are somehow evacuating the reality as it stands. We do not understand it further in the light of the work that has taken place since last March and that has led us to build this mechanism and to create a solid legal framework that respects our institutions and our Constitution. It is he who allows us to act, but also to discuss, since we are constantly talking in the National Assembly about this crisis, the actions implemented and their effects, and we are discussing the various bills that lead us to extend the state of health emergency. Finally, we do not understand it in the light of the work we did in the Law Committee last week: it was they who led us in particular to delete Article 3 and to introduce de facto a re-visit clause next spring to examine the decisions to be taken after 1 June. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group. – Exclaims on several benches of the LR group]] In any case, we understand what this rejection motion means to your group: the left-wing government is over.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u16	Mr Ian Boucard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u17	Let's say right away, the Republicans will vote in favour of this motion of rejection, first of all for reasons of consistency: we are opposed to this bill, which, minister, is not just a technical text. It extends the powers granted to the Government by Parliament until 1 June without any re-visitation clause. It somehow deprives Parliament of its ability to legislate, hence of the legislative power that the citizens have entrusted to us. Mrs Karamanli is right to point out that being against the state of health emergency and its extension until 1 June does not mean, Mr Minister, that we wanted to prevent you from putting in place the necessary measures to combat this epidemic. You tell us every time that being against it is irresponsible: this permanent blackmail with responsibility is unworthy. Since the beginning of this health crisis, the 577 deputies who form the National Assembly, who represent all the French, have been responsible, like all our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u18	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u19	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Mrs Martine Wonner also applauds]] I would like to end this with this little music and sometimes this form of contempt that our colleague from the Republic has just shown on the move.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u20	If you were in business, you would vote against this motion!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u21	Mr Philippe Latomb has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u22	As I will have the opportunity to say in the general discussion, we will be vigilant on certain points, including the role of Parliament, whether it is the development of measures or the monitoring of the Government's action; But we clearly need a legal framework that allows it to take action quickly. It is not a question of being blind, as you say, Mr Little, but of being able to apply immediately the measures required, in particular the emergence of these new variants and all the risks resulting therefrom. For these reasons, the Movement Démocrate (MoDem) and Related Democrats Group will vote against the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u23	Mr Olivier Becht has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u24	The Group of the European People's Party will obviously vote against the rejection motion. For legal reasons, first of all: in practice, if we adopt this motion, in a few weeks' time, there would be no possibility of taking action to combat the virus.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u25	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u26	In other words, it will not be tens of thousands, but hundreds of thousands of our fellow citizens who will be contaminated; Some will die, others will end up in resuscitation or medical beds. Of course, it would be totally irresponsible, and I am weighing my words, to vote in this way at the moment. This does not mean that we will not ask for a reorientation of the health strategy; I'll explain later. An argument was used by the Socialist and Related Group to justify this motion: the arrival of vaccines. We know very well, even if improvements in logistics could speed things up, that we will not be able to make more vaccinations than the number of vaccines delivered.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u27	They're not coming!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u28	However, the number of vaccines delivered depends on what production plants produce. The European Union, it is important to stress, is particularly privileged over the rest of the world with regard to the delivery of vaccines. We must continue to vaccinate according to these deliveries. That is the political reason why we will vote against this motion of rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u29	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u30	More and more of our fellow citizens are tired of the restrictions on their freedom that have been imposed on them for almost a year. Of course, they understand the reasons – the health security of as many of our fellow citizens as possible and the fight against the spread of the virus – but they end up wondering what the cost of this loss of freedom is for their social and economic activities. We parliamentarians are also weary: every time, Minister, we try to explain to you that Parliament is neither an obstacle nor an obstacle to the Government's ability to combat this virus effectively. We have the right to wait for you to consult with us and provide us with reports. Our role as parliamentarians is also to vote for texts aimed at establishing a health and organisational strategy adapted to this virus. That is what our colleague Marietta Karamanli wanted to say, I believe, in defending this motion of rejection. We are all aware of the stakes, but it also refers to your responsibility. We had tabled a text to create a permanent regime for the state of health emergency, but it was withdrawn for reasons beyond our control. And here we are tied feet and fists as the end of the state of emergency decided on 24 March 2020 approaches. In fact, you come to explain to us that we have no choice but to allow you to extend the state of emergency... This institutional political situation is not satisfactory. [[Guy Bricout applauds]] The IDU and independent group will abstain, because we feel caught between two fires: defending the parliamentary institution and taking into account the reality of the health crisis.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u31	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u32	This is the sixth time that we have considered a text on a state of emergency to entrust full powers to the Government and the President.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u33	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u34	It's been a year! Where's the emergency when it lasts for a year? And for how long? "There are the variants," we are told. "It's gonna be better from the fall," I heard. And even, among the pessimists: "the hardest will be next winter"! In short, you have to learn to live with... In reality, we will have to learn to live without it. For my son, it means learning to live without handball; for my daughter, to learn to live without birthday parties, or only in visio; for students, learning to live without seeing each other for months; for those who have sports halls or who frequent them, learn to live without these activities. And for us here and for everyone in the country, it means living without democracy for a year. But until when? No limit is set. Until when will there be no sport? Until when will there be no lecture in amphi? Until when will there be no democracy? That is the central question. You're walking us. The shops are closed, then reopened, then closed. We promise the cultural sector a reopening mid-December, then we teach it two days before it will not be possible, without saying when it will become possible again. For students, you will finally find arrangements for those in the first year; But there is never a whole discussion where we are seen as citizens and not puppets. [[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] [[Martine Wonner and Nicolas Dupont-Aignan applaud]] The curfew at eighteen o'clock is never seen in the history of France! Even during the occupation, it did not fall at that time and during the Algerian war either. I do not dispute the measure, at the limit, but the fact that it is not the subject of any discussion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u35	Mr Paul Molac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u36	No one here disputes the seriousness of the epidemic; What we are challenging, on the other hand, is the method used by the Government. We are told that the legal framework has been clearly defined. Of course, but is it democratic? The problem is there. There is confusion of powers: it is not complicated, the executive decides everything!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u37	No, we're voting!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u38	Read the philosophers if you want, but you have to see that in such cases, we are no longer in democracy. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Mr. François Ruffin also applauds]] If we ever pass this motion of rejection and the state of emergency was not extended, could we still take action? Of course I do. Simply, the minister should come and explain why he wants a curfew and why he wants it at 8:00 p.m. or 6:00 p.m. Here he tells us: "I make this decision, whether you are happy or not. In any case, national representation is useless. All right! [[Ms Martine Wonner, Mr François Ruffin and Mr Nicolas Dupont-Aignan applaud]] Why do I say that? Because the incidence rate varies considerably across jurisdictions. In the community of communes of the Monts d'Arrée, it is 24; in the department of the Côtes d'Armor, it is 60, in the Morbihan, 65, in the Finistère, 75. It is exactly the same measures that are imposed everywhere. In the community of communes in which I live, the incidence rate fell after Christmas – one can be surprised: with the holidays, one could expect on the contrary. But all this is not discussed: curfew is at 18 o'clock everywhere... I am sorry, but I cannot, as a representative of the nation, accept this kind of practice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u39	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u40	I listened carefully to each other's explanations; We are many here, even if we do not all want to say so, to understand what drives this rejection motion, whether it is the reasons I have listed or the way in which this crisis is dealt with as a whole. Throughout the review of these texts, unfortunately, we did not have discussions on the status of the strategies implemented or on known and shared medical data.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u41	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u42	You can't just say, "That's not true," Mr. Rupin. So check before you talk. We are all responsible here and it would not be fair to play on irresponsibility. We are responsible women and men, we are responsible parliamentarians, elected for some for a very long time, which shows the confidence our fellow citizens place in us. What we are contesting here is the method used and the way things are conducted at the highest level. To tell each other that to vote on this motion is to put an end to the state of health emergency is not fair. Our goal is to give the Government the opportunity to come back with a better text. It is to give Parliament the opportunity to contribute to the drafting of this bill in a way that is different from what happened in committee. It is to give us the opportunity to take into account the concrete proposals of the mission led by Philippe Gosselin and Sacha Houlié, instead of rejecting them in committee. [[Mr. Stéphane Peu applause]] Here are our reasons. Don't play on irresponsibility. We are responsible, we are well aware of the situation in that country and we propose to treat it differently.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u43	In the general debate, Mr Stéphane Peu has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u44	[[Mr François Ruffin and Mr Nicolas Dupont-Aignan applaud]] The President of the Republic Emmanuel Macron had deliberately chosen to describe the fight against the war virus, and many of us judged that comparison to be risky. But since the Head of State continues to use it, I would like to point out that, in the First World War, after having been for a while, the contribution of parliamentarians in the conduct of military operations proved decisive. Far from this logic of close involvement of national representation, you are taking us on a very different path. The policy of fighting covid-19 cannot be achieved by leaving our assembly on the sidelines; On the contrary, it must be conducted under its control and with its enlightenment, nourished by the daily experience of the representatives of the nation that we are. That is why we reiterate our opposition to the banality of the derogation from the health emergency regime, which was initially presented as temporary and limited to three months, then extended by six months and now by more than one year. On the contrary, we demand the regular intervention of the legislator in order to ensure the necessity and proportionality of the prerogatives entrusted to the executive. As we have said and reiterated, there is no question to the Government of the possibility of asking for the means of its action. But democracy is not a handicap; On the contrary, it is a guarantee of efficiency. The demonstration is now that it was when the imperity of our ministers was brought to light, notably through the work of national representation, that changes in course were made possible. This is how useless masks have become everyday objects of the fight against covid-19; This is how tests that were not useful have become an essential tool of the same struggle; Thus, in the speeches at least, you admitted that the regular amputation of the means of the public hospital had to stop, even if, unfortunately, the case continues – to take just one example, the merger of the hospitals Bichat and Beaujon within the hospital Grand Paris Nord will result in the removal of no less than 400 hospital beds. This is how we have finally been able to spend the second time, to talk familiarly, on vaccination policy. There is therefore no question for the Members of the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left to grant you the exorbitant powers that you ask, for ever longer periods, concerning the movement of people, the conditions of openings of establishments receiving from the public or the demonstrations and rallies on the public road, whose heavy consequences both on the economy and on our way of life are known. Wearyness has now gained almost all the benches of this assembly. We are tired of your uncertainties, your volte-face, or the head of state's feigned annoyances about the failures of a vaccination policy that he himself has organised. We are concerned that the Government has become accustomed to the regime derogating from the rule of law, a regime in which, if we adopt this bill, France will have found itself the clearest of its time since 2015... Finally, we are concerned that decisions are now being taken in the Security Council, without any legitimacy, on the basis of the recommendations of private officials. Whatever the challenges we face, environmental, social, health or security, we cannot resolve to abandon the democratic functioning of our institutions. On the contrary, we now know that it is through debate, transparency and the deployment of clear and accepted public policies that we will defeat the virus. That is why we will not vote on your bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u45	Mr Guillaume Gouffier-Cha has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u46	We are here again to vote for the extension of the state of health emergency, not because we want it, but because the context requires it. The whole country is in constant alert and, since last Saturday, curfew has been advanced at eighteen o'clock. We know that it is sometimes experienced as a punishment and that this umpteenth deprivation of liberty has terrible consequences for the morale of French and French people. We know that and we legislate in knowledge, and in responsibility. Yesterday, an additional 23608 people were infected by the covid -19; 10328 were hospitalized, of which 1517 were in resuscitation, and 373 people died. I would also like, on behalf of the La République on the move, to express our most supportive thoughts for the victims, the sick, their loved ones and their families, to all our fellow citizens who are experiencing real daily drama. I would also like to acknowledge the continued commitment of all our caregivers. In this context, the difficult and painful measures that we are taking are aimed first of all at avoiding the saturation of our resuscitation services, at avoiding too much burden, because already considerable, of our healthcare staff, to avoid that France knows too much death, in short, to save lives, I would like to remind you. For the sixth time since March 2020, we are in this Chamber to discuss the need to extend the state of health emergency. Constraint, but indispensable and necessary, it provides a legal arsenal to match the responses to the health crisis. It provides a framework for action consistent with respect for our institutions and our Constitution. The bill includes measures that result from a health imperative. We cannot today, even if we wish, leave this state of health emergency. The virus is still very active, new variants are beginning to spread in France, even as we are only starting the vaccination campaign: a campaign that will allow to vaccinate 1 million fellow citizens by the end of January, 2.4 million by the end of February. This campaign will take a long time because of the rate of vaccine production, on which we depend. I come to the bottom of the text. Article 1 of the bill is intended to extend until 31 December 2021 the legal regime for the state of health emergency, which was originally to end 1 April 2021. Article 2 extends the state of health emergency in force until 1 June 2021. At the risk of repeating myself with the rapporteur and my colleagues in the La République group on the move, these first two provisions are adapted and proportionate to the health context. If we support these two extensions, however, we remain very careful that Parliament takes its full place in the management of the crisis and exercises its role of monitoring the action of the Government – especially since it will soon be a year since we are plunged into this dramatic crisis. That is why, at the meeting of the Committee on Laws last week, we abolished Article 3, which extended the transitional regime for exiting the state of emergency until 30 September 2021. Even if this regime is very useful, we have fully seen it last summer, and although we fully support the Government's action on a daily basis, we could not give you a blank meeting until that date: we are creating, de facto, a re-visit clause, which will allow the Government to re-appear before Parliament at the end of spring, in order to share with us the decisions that we will have to take collectively at this particular time. Article 4 extends the SIDEP and Contact Covid information systems until 31 December 2021, two essential devices in the daily fight against the virus. In this regard, I welcome the decision of the Government to set the date of its lapse by law and not by decree. Finally, Article 5 extends the necessary provisions to the overseas communities. This bill, ladies and gentlemen, is not a surprise, since the decision was taken to postpone consideration of the bill establishing a permanent health crisis management regime, which we will be debating before the end of this year. Given the absence of a permanent regime, we cannot play with sorcerer apprentices and endanger the health or life of our fellow citizens: we must extend the emergency scheme, as we created it unanimously on 23 March. I know that the decisions we make today are not trivial; On the contrary, they are marked with gravity. We wish everyone the same thing: to get out of this crisis and to return to a normal life. Ladies and gentlemen, I am sure we will succeed. I simply hope that everyone, despite the approach of the departmental and regional elections, will be able to participate responsibly in its management without constantly seeking controversy, without seeking to add anger to the legitimate impatience that exists in the country.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u47	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u48	The La République group will once again support this bill, in order to avoid a dry or hasty exit from a coercive legal regime, heavy, but essential, even vital, in the crisis that we are going through. (Applause from a few benches of the LaREM Group. – Mr Jean-Pierre Pont and Mrs Yaël Braun-Pivet also applaud.)
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u49	Mr Ian Boucard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u50	Our assembly is meeting to consider a bill authorizing the extension of the state of emergency until June 1, 2021. To deal with the urgency of an epidemic to which our country was not prepared, the law of 23 March 2020 established a state of health emergency. At the beginning of the summer, it was organized towards a transitional regime, allowing the Government to take exceptional measures until 31 October. Despite the implementation of this emergency regime, which severely restricted our fundamental freedoms, the Government has not been able to prevent the rapid spread of the virus at the time of re-entry. The President of the Republic has therefore again declared a state of emergency, from 17 October, extended until 16 February 2021. The state of health emergency will therefore soon have a year and I recall the words of former minister Gérard Collomb: a state of emergency cannot be extended indefinitely, otherwise it is no longer an exceptional regime. So why this new extension, by means of a text validated in disaster last Wednesday in the Council of Ministers and to be examined the next day in the Committee on Laws? Because, once again, the Government reacts in haste and without strategy. You were originally to propose a permanent health emergency management regime, which was adopted by the Council of Ministers on 21 December. However, the Government had to withdraw its disaster bill in the face of the outcry caused by certain provisions, such as the one that allowed the Prime Minister to condition the movement of persons and the carrying out of certain activities to the submission of a screening test or to the administration of the vaccine. The cacophony resulting from a poorly prepared text, and especially poorly presented, thus leads us to this prolongation of the state of health emergency. Several factors must be taken into account when deciding whether or not our assembly should extend this derogation from our rules of law. First, of course, the health situation: while we are far from the figures observed during the epidemic peak of the second wave, it is nevertheless worrying. On Tuesday, 23608 people were tested positive for covid-19 and the incidence rate was 190.9 per 100,000 inhabitants in the national territory. In addition, 2839 people were hospitalized in resuscitation. Since the beginning of 2020, the epidemic has caused the deaths of more than 700,000 French citizens; We all think, at this moment, of their families. It also appears that there are many uncertainties about the development of the situation in the short and medium term. There are real risk factors for worsening; It is particularly difficult to measure the extent of the prevalence in France of new variants, detected in particular in the United Kingdom and South Africa, and their precise effect on the spread of the epidemic. Secondly, our Assembly must consider the effectiveness of your strategy to combat the epidemic, and whether you are making good use of the powers entrusted to you. I could go back to the lack of masks, but everyone has it in mind. I could also go back to the failures of the deconfinement and the initial testing strategy, but I prefer to dwell on your latest decisions: the closure of the shops, which your majority chose to call non-essential, caused a sharp stir on the part of the traders and the public and aroused a firm opposition from the Republicans group. Their reopening did not lead to the massive deterioration of the health situation that some of your experts announced, because these professionals and the French were exemplary. The Christmas holidays, which some wanted to ban and on which they would tell about the place to be reserved for papy and grandma, were not disastrous in health, because the French were, as since the beginning of this epidemic, responsible. Finally, let's take a first look at curfew, which was advanced at 18.00 on 2 January in 15 departments and throughout the country since last Saturday. Let us take a look at the wide-ranging round-the-clock consultation of local elected officials, organized by the Government. In my department of the territory of Belfort, all the elected representatives interviewed were opposed to it; However, the curfew came into force on 2 January. We did not expect any of this consultation, but we were disappointed. As we announced, this has only concentrated population flows in the same place and at the same time, contrary to the recommendations that have been advocated for months. In the area of health, the Government announces very positive results of curfews; I want to believe it, but it turns out that the numbers in my department say the other way around. The results of these measures show that France's health strategy should be more co-built, that our Parliament should be associated with it other than by granting you extensive powers every six months, that local elected representatives should be more consulted than at present. We have seen the effectiveness of mayors, departmental presidents, regional presidents, in obtaining and distributing masks, in organizing test campaigns and finally in setting up vaccination centres, when the Government is once again out of date. This co-construction would help to avoid the coucacs that weaken your health strategy and reduce the acceptance of your measures by the citizens. But there will be no co-construction, because Parliament will no longer have its say until 1 June if we vote on this law. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] In conclusion, I will reword a question that has already been asked to you by my colleague Antoine Savignant in committee: in view of the Government's failure on the masks and, even more serious, of the lie of some of its members about their usefulness, in view of the failure of the strategy of deconfining, in view of the considerable delay that our country has taken on the deployment of the vaccination campaign while tens of millions of French people are waiting to be vaccinated, contrary to what can be told here and there, would you give the Government, if you were in our place, that confidence that you are asking us? On behalf of the Republican Group, I am now answering no to this question. That is why we will vote mostly against this bill; But we are obviously at your disposal, as we have been since the beginning of this crisis, to help our country get out of this health crisis as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u51	You'd vote if you were in business!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u52	Mr Philippe Latomb has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u53	I will be brief, a lot has already been said about the state of emergency and its prorogation in this bill. Nevertheless, there are several salient points to note, which I would like to highlight in this general discussion. Firstly, the Movement Démocrate (MoDem) and Allied Democrats Group are pleased that the text for the inclusion in the common law of health emergency measures will be examined later, when the country's health situation in the face of the covid-19 crisis has passed. Of course, it is always possible and healthy to make intermediate observations and assessments, but these must be limited to what needs to be readjusted operationally, in order to adapt to the evolution of the pandemic, to coordinate with our global or European partners, within our administration and with our local authorities. Coordination has no doubt become the main word: without permanent coordination, without consultation, and without health. Let's always keep this in mind. The comprehensive and transparent assessment that we owe absolutely and indisputably to our citizens at the end of the epidemic in France and around the world will have to be ex post and not ex ante. At that time alone, we can usefully, coldly, calmly and with all the necessary hindrance, analyze what had been decided and carried out and what could have been changed or put in place. We will then be able to compare the measures with those introduced in our neighbours or later, question the effectiveness of our decisions and, if necessary, take the necessary steps to reform our system to make it resilient, protective and transparent. Indeed, consideration of the bill to extend the state of health emergency is made necessary by the postponement of the bill incorporating measures in the above-mentioned ordinary law, which, for our group, was not adequate at this stage; All the more necessary, as stated in the impact assessment, is the fact that there is no indication that the epidemic will resume again in the coming weeks, and that there is no indication that there will be any improvement at this time. As we see, the Government must constantly adjust measures to ensure our health security in line with the evolution of the pandemic. It must be able to make arrangements and announce them quickly, sometimes even more essential as we are confronted with the arrival of new variants in our territory which lead to faster contamination and which are more of a priority concern to young people. In my Vendée territory, I make it the bitter experience with the appearance of a large cluster at Poiré-sur-Vie, whose contaminant strain is the so-called British variant, now called by scientists VOC 2021 or Nelly, and which requires rapid reactions to control its spread and delay or even prevent its spread. We must therefore give a legal framework for action to the Government, which is in a timely manner tailored to health issues. For our group, those proposed in this text are relevant. We note very favourably that Article 4 is "hardened" in the law and does not refer, as originally proposed, before the Council of Ministers, to a decree in the Council of State. The role of Parliament is thus strengthened, which satisfies us. Similarly, the abolition of Article 3 by amendment in the Committee on Laws, which has led to the unanimity of the political groups, is welcomed by all members of the Democratic Group. Finally, the examination of this text shows Parliament's ability to work in emergency situations, even when the parliamentary calendar is dense. We believe that giving the Government a legal framework for prompt action is not contrary to the role of Parliament, subject to certain conditions. Thus, Parliament does not fully divest itself of the executive's control: it retains its capacity to convene members of the Government and senior officials responsible for managing the pandemic before the ad hoc committees. In addition, individual parliamentarians retain the means to interview departments or the administration at any time. In this regard, Mr Minister, I welcome the fact that you have also been present to answer in committee or during topical questions on the means used by the executive for the past year. However, these parliamentary possibilities can only be effective under certain conditions: transparency in responses and figures to begin with. We have seen it with masks or tests, our fellow citizens want to know and be considered as adults; The same goes for vaccines. Transparency is necessary in order to allow everyone to adhere to the measures depriving them of their freedoms which must be taken healthily. In this regard, I welcome your announcement to deliver information on vaccine deliveries in open data. Our fellow citizens expect a lot, and we owe it to them. Another condition is the plans to ratify the orders made within the framework entrusted to you. We count on you to ensure that these texts are tabled on the Bureau of the Assembly immediately after the publication of the said ordinances and that their consideration is scheduled without delay, even in a constrained parliamentary timetable. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group.]] As these points have been highlighted, the Group of the Party of European Socialists and Related Democrats is in favour of this text and will vote for it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u54	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u55	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u56	As I said earlier, this text is intended to be technical even if it cannot dissociate itself from its context, from a non-existent assessment of the measures taken on the basis of the previous text and which it will again authorize, from a vaccination strategy which is still hesitant and subject to many uncertainties. On the substance, our observations and observations partly overlap with those we made last November when we examined the previous text. The proposal for an extension to 1 June seems too long. We are in a derogatory and exceptional legal regime that must be strictly proportionate to the health circumstances and objectives. Any significant limitation of our individual and collective freedoms must be applied in a restrictive manner and for as little time as possible: successive extensions cannot therefore exceed a maximum of two to three months. As the text puts us at a time of more than four months to assess future extensions, we should have a systematic review of the measures taken during the current period, which is not the case. If the deletion of Article 3 with a view to presenting a text for a new regime for exiting the state of health emergency is a good thing, it is more than desirable that it be presented to us at the latest in April in order to give us a real time for debate in order to appreciate its ins and outs and to enable it to be improved. On the other hand, the urgency must be considered before it is implemented; In this regard, it is imperative that the texts cannot be tabled on Wednesday for consideration on Thursday. It is also important to improve the health emergency regime: during exchanges within the mission on the state of health emergency, I expressed reservations, arguing, inter alia, that there should be only one emergency regime with comparable guarantees – information, constant referral to Parliament, the opinion of the Constitutional Council on the basis of the provisions of Article 16 of the Constitution – that available scientific data motivating the nature and scope of the state of health emergency should be better shared and subject to collegiality, of which Parliament is a member, and to the contradiction of the sources of science; We can. [[Mr. Stéphane Peu applause]] We will therefore propose several amendments in line with our twofold concern: to limit, as far as possible, the duration of the state of emergency by following the strategies set out by the Government, to establish and extend Parliament's control over the measures taken. We hope to be heard. We have all noted in committee that the rapporteur has been open to the amendments resulting from the work of the Gosselin-Houlié mission, but it would seem that they were all rejected under Rule 88. If that is the case, we will vote against a text that does not take into account our remarks, the duration of the extension, the proposed parliamentary control measures, or the improvement of the legal regime itself. We hope that the debate will allow us to improve the situation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u57	Mr Olivier Becht has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u58	We are meeting this afternoon to discuss a text to extend the state of emergency until 1 June and the state of emergency regime possibly until 31 December this year. As I said in the explanations of vote on the motion for a preliminary rejection, there is obviously a need to extend the state of emergency. Given the current health situation in our country, it would be irresponsible to return to the common law system, i.e. to deprive ourselves of tools to combat the virus on a daily basis.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u59	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u60	However, the Group of the European People's Party wants to see a change in our health strategy. We cannot, Minister, give the Government every three or four months a blank cheque without discussing the substance of this health strategy. And this for two reasons: firstly, from the very admission of the Scientific Council, we know that vaccination, which depends on the delivery of vaccines, so their manufacture...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u61	They're not coming!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u62	... and not, as some argue, for the sole purpose of polemicing, mere logistical considerations, will not ensure collective immunity by the end of the year; Secondly, variants are circulating, including the so-called Brazilian E484K mutation, some of which question the possible resistance to the vaccine. It seems obvious that we will not be able to go through the whole of 2021 only with containment, deconfination, reconfining or curfew measures. It is not psychologically tenable for the French and French who are at the end of the mental burden that these measures involve on them in addition to the health crisis, the economic crisis, the social crisis, the moral crisis, and the terrorism that strikes our country; It is also not economically sustainable since entire sections of our economy are at a standstill – restoration, tourism, culture, and many others unfortunately. Finally, it is not financially sustainable because we are creating more debt every day that will have to be repaid by our children and grandchildren.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u63	Look what's happening in Spain!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u64	The Group of the European People's Party hopes that we can have in parallel with the vaccination strategy a strategy to combat the virus, as is the case in countries that have achieved little or no success in eradicating the virus, even if this fight is never won: we must lead it region by region, common by commune, street by street. Today we know how to detect the virus in wastewater, we also know how to confine a population, so we can systematically test people, detect positive people and contact cases, isolate them to break transmission chains. The Members of the Group of the European People's Party are therefore asking the Government to discuss and discuss this strategy together to see what we can do, alongside vaccination, to wage a real war against this virus, that is, to try to eradicate it from our national territory, including, if necessary, by transitional closure of borders or by introducing extremely strict controls, with strict and controlled PCR and quarantine tests, and not simply certificates of honour, in order to prevent us from being contaminated by other variants that could endanger the health situation in our country. We shall therefore vote for this text by a very large majority...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u65	Nice plea!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u66	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] ...but without giving a blank cheque to the Government. We want to discuss the substance of the health strategy. We believe that our country can win this war. We have had difficult times in our history, and this one is part of it; But we have also shown in the past that we know each time we get up, fight and finally win the war.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u67	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u68	For almost a year now, our country, like the rest of the world, has been living in the sideration of a virus that is developing and changing, that is undermining our economies, our social and personal lives, and that is experiencing, in terms of health as well as that of their organization, all countries and especially ours. We could have been content to transfer to you at regular intervals the prerogatives of Parliament to vote the law and to monitor the action of the Government if these blank cheques had allowed you to anticipate the evolution of the epidemic. That we were in reaction last March, when the virus was only emerging, no one would complain about it: then no one could predict the scale of the health catastrophe. We had to take extremely drastic measures and we were at your side in those moments. But since then, perhaps by ease, you have asked Parliament at regular intervals to continue to divest itself of its prerogatives and to leave your hand on the entire health strategy. It must be noted, however, that these are masks, debunking, re-defining or vaccination strategies, that our country always has a time of delay, which it tries to catch up with each and every time, in particular by accepting what it initially refused. For example, you initially refused to trust local authorities, for example when they asked for permission to open vaccination centres. A few weeks later, when you realize that it is necessary to intensify the movement, it is to them that you turn around, and they responded present extremely quickly. This is what makes it possible today, if not to speed up vaccination, in any case to increase the queues and therefore the confidence of our fellow citizens in the beneficial effects of vaccination. At the political level, I find particularly detestable the method of forcing parliamentarians to give up their prerogatives each time and, moreover, under totally unsatisfactory conditions of debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u69	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u70	[[Applause on the benches of the UDI-I and LR groups and on the benches of the LT group]] Consider that the text before us today was discussed in the Law Committee two hours after it was published on the National Assembly website, the very afternoon of the day when it passed into the Council of Ministers! Of course, the chairman of the committee, we knew the date of this meeting, but we did not have the text; We had no idea what the Government was going to propose to us, even though it had been agreed – it was a commitment both on your part and on the part of the Government – that a text lasting the legal regime of the state of emergency would be presented before the regime resulting from the law of March 2020 lapsed. But, as usual, for failure to have been the subject of the necessary consultations, this text, which, in particular, authorized the Government to make the freedom of movement conditional on vaccination – that was pretty much what was written – provoked such an outcry that you had to withdraw it. [[Same movements]] Today, we are tied feet and fists: as you explained to us, we have no choice but to prolong the state of emergency in order to continue to take effective measures derogating from the common law which, failing that, could not be extended beyond February. This method has shown its limits, as has your health strategy.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u71	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u72	"We'll be ready for the second wave if it happens: everything has been put in place. That's what Emmanuel Macron said at his speech on July 14. The second epidemic wave we are going through was predictable; It had also been announced by the Scientific Council, many epidemiologists, the World Health Organization and, it seems, President Macron. Yet, nothing was ready. And now, the Government, whose record is at least mixed, expects national representation to extend once again the exorbitant powers of the common law which it claims to need in order to cope with the health crisis, but which it uses with obvious inefficiency. The management of vaccines, after testing and masking, is a new illustration of the government's lack of care and confusion. As of 18 January 2021, the vaccination rate for the population was 1.37% in Germany, almost double what it is in France. While our neighbour is experiencing a lot of difficulties, like many other countries in Europe and around the world, the vaccination strategy has been much more anticipated than here: millions of syringes have been stored, hundreds of vaccination centres have been opened, 10 million doses have been ordered and distributed to 60 warehouses throughout the country. On this side of the Rhine, the launch of the vaccination campaign was a failure. At this time, too many questions about vaccination, but also about curfew or possible reconstitution remain unanswered, in any case without a convincing answer as to the Government's ability to effectively organize the health response, which contributes greatly to the distrust of a part of the population. Added to this is the Government's incomprehensible decision to pursue the harmful policies that brought us so close to the disaster at the beginning of the crisis. Indeed, while the WHO has called on states to strengthen their health structures, your government is doing the opposite: in the midst of a pandemic the health break continues as before, with twenty-eight beds abolished in Besançon by 2024, eighty in Rouuvray, seventy-five in Lyon, one hundred seventy-four in Nancy... The use of private consulting firms, the very ones that have contributed to the dismantling of public services and their privatization, is a sign of the inability of this power to find answers to the crisis outside the neoliberal doxa. In addition, unable to provide health care, you have chosen a safe response. The executive has distinguished itself more in this area than in the area of protection against the virus, in other words, since March 2020, several successive laws have extended the state of emergency, effectively establishing a permanent state of emergency. All decisions concerning the health crisis are taken in defence counsel, in the greatest opacity, the secret defence that covers these meetings preventing parliamentarians from monitoring the action of the Government. The powers assigned to the executive cover all matters within the competence of Parliament under Article 34: exercise of freedoms, education, property regime, criminal procedure, electoral law. That is why Parliament is relegated to the rank of the executive's registration chamber. You will tell me that this is not new under the Fifth Republic and even less in Macronia, but it is particularly serious given the way in which you manage – so badly – the situation. The bodies of health democracy, such as the National Institute of Health and Medical Research, the High Council for Public Health, the national associations of users and users have been systematically ignored. As for the citizens' committee drawn to think about the vaccination strategy, it is more of a bad gadget than anything else... This authoritarian management is denounced in particular by the National Consultative Commission on Human Rights. On 26 November, it again alerted the Government to the drift of the systematic use of an emergency regime. She regretted that so little had been learned from the first confinement and that the human and material resources of the public hospital had not been strengthened to meet the needs. Contrary to what you keep repeating, there are alternatives to the policy that you are leading. Our group has not only opposed the macroist mess: it has proposed alternative strategies through legislative proposals, emergency measures, particularly in favour of students, major plans for health and social, economic, ecological and alternatives to containment. Others have also done so: all this has been rejected. I will conclude by repeating the words of Yasmina Kettal, nurse in Seine-Saint-Denis, invited by Mediapart on 31 December 2020 to present his wishes to the citizens as president of the Republic of one evening: "We leave this period weary and changed. We have had to learn to live with our fears and doubts, but this year we have also shown that in the face of danger solidarity is vital, that in the face of injustice and lies, we cannot afford to remain silent. » We will not be silent; We will continue to oppose your policy. We will therefore vote against this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u73	Mr Paul Molac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u74	Since 23 March and the adoption of the law creating a state of emergency, we live in France under an emergency regime. So it has been almost ten months since the exception became a rule. This raises many questions, which unfortunately we are not always able to answer. Can we still talk about a state of emergency, a year after the virus appeared? What still justifies transferring exorbitant powers from common law to the Government to deal with the crisis? Recall that the law of 23 March allowed the introduction in the law of an emergency regime governing the state of health emergency; and since an exception regime is by definition not called upon to persevere, the legislator, in his wisdom, predicted its lapse on April 1, 2021. However, in the absence of sufficient advance notice, the Government is now proposing to extend this regime until 31 December of the same year. On 17 October, following the emergence of the second wave, the Government decided to re-establish a state of full health emergency, enabling it to implement particularly restrictive provisions with regard to our fundamental freedoms, such as the freedom to assemble, move or work – which is not nothing. In particular, with regard to general measures which do not take account of the territorial peculiarities of our country, these provisions do not appear to be proportionate. Worse, we are beginning to seriously doubt the Government's ability to protect a whole part of the population from the cumulative effects of containment and curfew measures. While the measures implemented are designed to protect our fellow citizens, especially the older ones, from this virus, we are also concerned about the serious social and psychological difficulties that other groups of the population, particularly the younger and isolated, are beginning to face.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u75	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u76	We are thinking of the unemployed, the precarious, the single and all those who are very difficult to cope with the effects of this health, economic and social crisis.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u77	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u78	There is no doubt that it is necessary for the executive branch to have the tools to implement timely measures. What we have been challenging since last spring and will continue to challenge is the way in which the Government decides to fight against the virus and all particularly harmful social, economic, cultural or educational approaches.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u79	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u80	All this is not properly proportionate to the situations encountered and the diversity of our territories. We have been alerting you for months about the effects of your refusal to associate national representation with local elected representatives: you tell us that you spend many hours each week in the Assembly and the Senate informing us of your decisions and that the prefects do the same with local elected officials. But our fellow citizens do not understand that not all actors are united to go through this period. But to unite, we must unite – what you do not – so share a power that Parliament has given you at some point, and that it would be better to take over in part. Of course, unity took place on 23 March; then we were by your side. It must now be built to ensure its maintenance. You come to Parliament to tell us about your decisions, but you are not listening to the information coming back from the ground. Far from the idea of minimizing the seriousness of the health situation. However, we too are concerned that freedoms are now overly limited. We are also concerned that emergency legislation does not end up being part of the common law, as has happened in the case of terrorism. The bill establishing a sustainable health emergency management regime has caused us serious concern because it contains manifestly disproportionate violations of fundamental freedoms. Moreover, it can be triggered by the executive alone. We take note, Mr. Minister, of the decision to defer consideration of this text, but this cannot be used as a pretext for the indefinite extension of the state of emergency, as you once again propose. I conclude: democracy cannot be set in stone. Jean-Louis Debré referred to pressure to ensure that the conclusions of his report lead to a lag in departmental and regional elections after the presidential elections.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u81	The bigger it is, the more it goes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u82	[[Applause on several benches of the LT and LR groups]] This wish has been strongly expressed by the executive for many months. We strongly caution against such an option that would further undermine the confidence of our fellow citizens in the institutions. Therefore, in keeping with our position, the majority of the Liberties and Territories group will vote against this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u83	Mr Nicolas Dupont-Aignan has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u84	How can we once again accept the extension of the state of health emergency? How can we accept this confusion of powers that makes our assembly disappear? What was to be provisional becomes permanent. What could be explained last year by the violence of the epidemic is no longer explicable or excusable. Enough, minister, of this incessant emotional blackmail! To hear you, refusing to sign this new blank cheque would be tantamount to refusing to act. This reasoning is absurd and scandalous. Parliamentarians have the full capacity to debate, reflect and vote. Do you have to doubt your majority if you don't even trust him? How do other democracies do it? It is obviously possible to reconcile action and democracy, especially since the Constitution of the Fifth Republic protects an extended regulatory power. Even during the Great War, that of 1914-1918, Parliament remained alive, and it was here that the conditions of the surge around Clemenceau were forged. In truth, your government and your president are instrumentalizing this health crisis to get and keep full powers by manipulating opinion. Full powers of which you make deplorable use: the more you fail, the more you despise Parliament and, through it, the French. You want full powers because your balance sheet is catastrophic.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u85	It's true that you never had to take stock!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u86	[[Murmures on the benches of the LaREM group]] You want to make this assembly disappear because you do not want to come here to answer all your lies: lies about masks, lies about tests, lies about care, lies about hospital beds of which you have not yet increased the number, lies about border control. You want to make the National Assembly disappear because you refuse to hear other proposals, those of real alternatives. When asked at meetings, you never answer. We have alerted you several times about the inability to control borders when the presentation of negative tests has been imposed in order to gain access to the national territory – for those who arrived from only some countries, because you have delayed for others, and still is not correctly applied for nationals of other countries of the European Union. As far as care is concerned, you have refused to conduct independent studies that would avoid lobbying the pharmaceutical industries and restore the experience of free doctors who, fortunately, care for our fellow citizens on the ground. Similarly, you never want to answer about the continuing closures of hospital beds – I invite you to the hospital in Juvisy where you have closed beds reserved for patients with covid-19; The same applies to hospital projects in the north of Ile-de-France.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u87	That's not good!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u88	Indeed, every time we question the Government outside this circle, we do not get any answers. We understand, of course, why the National Assembly bothers you and why you want to continue to manage the health crisis in the secrecy of a defence council and that of a scientific council whose reports we do not have, since it seems that there are none. Would no debate be possible in this country? No debate here, no report to the Scientific Council, the most absolute secret to the defence council! A man alone decides everything; A single man fails and challenges the lives of our fellow citizens. And we should disappear? Would we, the representatives of the people, no longer have the right to ask any question? Your record is so catastrophic that you want to constantly use the state of health emergency to pursue your sad policy. Only the French will be judges. Our duty to all of us, if we show some republican dignity, is to oppose your state of emergency, which is just another manipulation!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u89	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u90	I now call, in the text of the commission, the clauses of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u91	Mr Christophe Blanchet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u92	Yes, the health disaster still requires all efforts to curb the epidemic, to protect the most vulnerable and out of respect for bereaved families, the sick and the convalescent, and the caregivers. The French show exceptional resilience but there is a danger of not hearing the fatigue, the grunt of those whose social life is reduced to almost nothing, those who no longer feel like living but to go to work, and who are anxious to have free time to fill it with their isolation. I am of course thinking of young people and students who, while they wanted to emancipate themselves, are sometimes forced to return to their families. I am also thinking of people under the age of 30 who are prevented from building their adult lives. In reality, all French people jointly impose deprivations of liberty in order to fight the virus together. But until when will they accept it? While the vaccine exists, be careful not to give December 31, 2021 as the only horizon, as the consent threshold may decrease as the days grow longer. The days that have been added to life for almost a year have to step by step to give life back to the days. Do not give the impression that we want to keep them masked or confined for another year. Otherwise, let us fear the anger of those, especially those who are least exposed to the disease, who will refuse to hear and wait until December 31. You are in your role, Minister, to preserve the health of the French. We, as parliamentarians, are in ours by echoing before you the sentiment of the people, whether it is their support or their growing exasperation. [[Applause on the benches of the LT groups and Action ens]] My position on Article 1 is strictly personal. In order to obtain the support of our fellow citizens, I find it inappropriate to fix the date of lapse of the legal regime for the state of emergency on 31 December. The state of emergency conditions our lives; As long as it lasts, we won't learn to live with the virus.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u93	Mrs Martine Wonner has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u94	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] A little over ten months ago, I explained that the Government would lock us in its security logic – I dare not pronounce the word "totalitarian"...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u95	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u96	... under the guise of managing a health crisis. As we understand it, the Government intends to extend the state of emergency until 31 December 2021. Let us be clear: a regime that governs by fear is no longer legitimate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u97	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u98	When the state of health emergency was introduced, Parliament introduced a sunset clause in Article 7 of the Act of 23 March. It must be noted that not only is this promise not respected, but also, worse still, that France is experiencing one of the longest states of exception in its history – that is, eighteen months.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u99	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u100	Ladies and gentlemen, is the postponement of the regional elections not enough to make us aware of the sacrifice of our democracy? Let us clearly project: let us imagine that we can organise the presidential election in 2022, when this article may have the effect of keeping France in a state of emergency that does not allow the normal exercise of public freedoms only four months from the election.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u101	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u102	[[Paul Molac and Nicolas Dupont-Aignan applaud]] For this reason and for those that I will be presenting throughout the meeting, I invite you to reject any idea of extending the state of health emergency.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u103	I have before me six identical amendments, Nos 10, 16, 26, 32, 52 and 87, to delete Article 1. Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor to support Amendment No. 10.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u104	We propose the deletion of Article 1e r, which provides for the extension of the expiry date of the health emergency regime to 31 December. Experience shows that this system was introduced in four days, in March 2020, to deal with an exceptional and urgent situation to which the common law was not adapted. By nature, this exceptional legal regime must be applied for the shortest period of time, which is strictly proportionate to the health circumstances, as we have constantly recalled for a long time. On the contrary, the extension provided for in this Article seems to us to be of an excessive duration.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u105	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 16.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u106	This amendment is also intended to delete the article. With this umpteenth version of the text on the state of health emergency, you want to lead us to eighteen months of state of emergency. How can we not question the very notion of a state of health emergency? The virus is there, its variants too, it's a fact; However, we have been in this situation for almost a year now. We could understand the outbreak of the state of emergency last March, but we are now in January 2021, and we are entering a new state of emergency that is no longer healthful but democratic. I insist, because for too many months Parliament has been literally ousted from the decisions taken by the Government, which unfortunately suffers all the sorrows of the world to overcome the epidemic. I'm not going back to the mask scandal...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u107	Not on the blouses in garbage bags!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u108	...and on the countless inconsistent measures such as the one that led to the closure of "non-essential" local shops, according to your famous formula. Nor will I dwell on the fiasco of vaccines needed to protect the population.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u109	Shame!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u110	France is still lagging behind: more than 500,000 people have been vaccinated, compared to more than one million in Germany. This unbearable drip shows how perilous it is to govern alone, not only for the power in place but especially for the French, who pay for the broken pots. [[Applause on a few benches of the LR group. – Nicolas Dupont-Aignan also applauds]] If I object to this bill to extend the state of emergency as it currently stands, it is because I believe that it is more than time to leave a state of emergency and give back to Parliament the powers conferred on it by the Constitution. Indeed, it cannot be overstated that ministers are not elected, unlike parliamentarians, and that it is in Parliament that the French have delegated their voices – the voice of the French that it is urgent to hear!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u111	Mrs Martine Wonner has the floor to support Amendment No. 26.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u112	Let us focus on the health dimension of the situation. We must indeed put these disproportionate measures – the extension of the state of emergency that is proposed to us once again – in relation to the health reality. Earlier, I heard numbers again: 25,000 or 26,000 people infected yesterday. What are we talking about? For more than a year, alas, we are still talking about tests, but not about patients or patients! We're talking positive tests.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u113	We're talking about the dead too!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u114	Again and again this famous PCR test, which is scientifically known that, designed for research, it is worth nothing in epidemiology, in diagnostics! Instead of the minister and the rapporteur turning to the blinks because they find my remarks aberrant, I would like them to pay attention to what is happening. Let us take the example of Alsace: earlier, when I listened to Olivier Becht, I felt that there was a need for mass graves to bury the dead.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u115	It's outrageous to say that!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u116	Let's be reasonable! The alsatian incidence rate is lower than the average: between 150 and 250 cases per 100,000 inhabitants, depending on the figures of the RSA, the regional health agency, those of Public Health France or those of the media. What are we talking about?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u117	We must conclude, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u118	I conclude, Mr. President. Again and again, we're talking about tests and not patients. Today, hospitals are barely one-third of their capacity. I repeat, let's be reasonable and let's...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u119	Thank you, Mrs. Wonner. I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 32.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u120	This amendment also aims to abolish the extension of the state of health emergency until 31 December. Every time we vote a new deadline, it is to offer the Government a kind of toolbox in which it picks up depending on the circumstances. If these tools were used well and were to achieve the desired results, I could still tell you: Let's go cheerfully, let's trust the executive, the Minister of Health! But at this hour, at this moment, I don't trust them anymore. Alerts are coming back from the field, if only about the vaccination campaign: mayors who are in favour of the vaccine have told us that they have set up centres for this purpose, deployed the logistics that the State is not necessarily able to provide, but let us go on this point, in order to finally not receive the promised doses.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u121	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u122	[[Claims on several banks of the LaREM Group]] I hear on the benches that these doses, you have to make them. So ask that the license, the patents needed for it, be universal, so that we can produce them in France and decline them! You don't. We put ourselves in Pfizer's hands; We are highly dependent on the production capacities of a single laboratory and the law of the market. In these circumstances, I do not agree to grant full powers, to give a blank sitting to a Government that has made so many mistakes and continues to do so. Instead, pass the measures you wish to take to the dropper; I still prefer to be a minority in the Chamber and not to have to rely on a defence counsel! That's the bottom of the question!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u123	Thank you, Mr. Bernalicis. I call Mr Molac to support Amendment No. 52.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u124	The state of emergency health regime was introduced within the framework of the law of 23 March 2020, adopted with emotion, a few days after the entry into force of the confinement. That is why the legislator, ultimately unsure of his fact, has set the date on which he should end. This regime allows the executive, through authorization, through the prefects, to prohibit people from leaving their homes, a measure unprecedented in the history of France and called "containment"; It makes curfews, quarantines, travel restrictions, closure of public places, prohibition of meetings of any kind possible. This is an exorbitant thing! In the meantime, Parliament's control power, as well as the fact that a number of measures are normally subject to its vote, are completely set aside. In addition, the Government undertook to revise the derogating legal framework before 1 April; It therefore has all the time necessary to review the law in the light of the comments made by the legislator, in particular those resulting from the flash mission of the Law Commission on the legal regime of the state of health emergency, which submitted its conclusions in time and time in December. This would provide a framework within which Parliament and local authorities would be better involved in decision-making, and where they would be truly differentiated according to the territories. For all these reasons, the signatories of this amendment consider that, at this stage, it is not necessary to postpone the expiry date of the health emergency regime, as provided for in the Act of 23 March 2020.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u125	I call Mr Serville to support Amendment No. 87.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u126	The Group of the Democratic and Republican Left naturally advocates for the abolition of Article 1e r and for the return to a real democracy through the restoration of the powers of Parliament, which is not intended to remain so hanged on the Basques of the Government. I would also like to draw the attention of national representation to the need to preserve the health of all our citizens, the entire nation. It is essential to combat the British variant; It is no less imperative to fight against the Brazilian variant. Yesterday, at this time, I was in the French Amazon, next to the Brazilian Amazon. To cross the ocean, it took me only seven hours by plane: it would take no more than this variant to reach metropolitan France. From my point of view, which is also that of the inhabitants and the political class of Guyana, the means provided to the local prefecture and the armed forces to control the border river that separates France – Guyana – from Brazil, are absolutely insignificant, derisory. The need to better accompany our territory, in order to better monitor this border, is more urgent than ever. I really want to warn you about this, which could lead to a serious deterioration of the health situation in Guyana, with consequences throughout the rest of the national territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u127	What is the opinion of the committee on the identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u128	If these amendments were adopted, we would no longer have adequate legal tools to deal with covid-19 from 1 April. We would then enter a phase of high instability that would seriously undermine our efforts to combat the epidemic, since the state of health emergency makes it possible to take essential measures: curfew, the continued closure of certain establishments receiving from the public, or strengthened border controls. In addition, when we examined the bill in committee, we included a re-visitation clause on June 1, a date that is preferable to the April 1 date that is the result of your amendments. Consequently, the opinion was unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u129	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u130	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u131	Mr Nicolas Dupont-Aignan has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u132	I stress once again the totally exorbitant nature of this state of health emergency. Not only does our House disappear from the scene, but this disappearance hides serious violations of the individual freedoms of our fellow citizens. To be forbidden from meeting, from going out of your home at certain times, is not trivial! Moreover, these measures are disproportionate to what is happening in our country. Admittedly, we are facing a very serious epidemic, many deaths, bereaved families; It is up to us, Minister, to do everything you can to ensure that these patients are treated, which is not yet sufficiently the case. It is inconceivable that by this article 1, which must obviously be abolished, the Government and the President of the Republic believe that they can reach 31 December, a few months before the presidential election, by continuing to prohibit any meeting of our fellow citizens. The man who gives you orders imposes on the nation a complete blockage of democratic life! This is in good agreement with his manoeuvres, denounced by Mr. Jean-Louis Debré, aimed at abolishing the regional elections. There is behind all this the authoritarian temptation of a man who is rushing the nation towards collective suicide.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u133	Mr Erwan Balanant has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u134	At a time when the idea of integrating the state of emergency into the common law was in the air, the Democratic Movement (MoDem) and related Democrats strongly opposed it; We have been intractable on this point. The counterpart is the need to extend this state of emergency. Mrs Wonner, you are telling us that nothing is happening: I am sorry, but there are people in hospitals who are in resuscitation, people who are dying, and not all elderly; Sometimes they're under 40.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u135	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u136	So don't let it be said that everything is fine, that there are no sick people in our country!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u137	She never said that!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u138	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group.– Exclaims on the benches of the LR and FI groups]] I also hear a number of opponents say, on the contrary, that everything is going wrong, that everything is organized badly, that everything is going to go to waste water in this country. First, it is a total disrespect for public servants and other agents who are fighting every day to resolve the issue of covid-19. Second, in December, the same opponents applauded the strategy adopted; The four-column chamber, some group president, on the right side of the Chamber, said that it was a good strategy, that it protected the weakest, that it was logical. So she wouldn't be? Let's try to be intellectually honest in the face of this crisis...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u139	Not like you, Mr. Balanant!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u140	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] It is difficult to live for people who are on the ground, but also for us, who have to make decisions. Let's try to make a nation, to regain our cohesion, to move forward and get out of it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u141	Mrs Martine Wonner has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u142	I will not be careful to reply personally to Mr Balanant, even if he has appointed me: I am speaking to all our colleagues. In medicine, when someone is suffering, you learn to listen to him,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u143	That's what we do, Mrs. Wonner!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u144	[[Claims on several banks of the LaREM Group]] ... we learn to observe it, to perform a clinical examination, to offer it a therapeutic accompaniment. On the other hand, we don't learn how to lock people up. However, for the past year, it has been the solution applied in France, as in other countries. For the past year, our Government has been making a mistake. Perhaps it is a little late to admit it, but it is never too late, minister; It is not too late to provide the most vulnerable with a policy of prevention based on vitamin D,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u145	It used to be the chloroquine!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u146	[[Same movements]] ...of which a series of scientific articles have shown all the interest. The Academy of Medicine had already proposed this solution to us last April!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u147	Please, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u148	The state of health emergency has precipitated the French into unfathomable suffering, of both economic and social origin. We will have to count the deaths of poverty together. What we are proposing today to our fellow citizens is absolutely dramatic!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u149	Mr Julien Aubert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u150	I wasn't planning to intervene, but Mr. Balanant's comments got me out of my gonds.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u151	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u152	It is not a question of whether or not Parliament must consent to the extension of the state of health emergency. No one on these benches will deny the existence of a health crisis,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u153	That's what we just heard!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u154	...and everyone understood the value of taking emergency measures. [[Mr. Ian Boucard applauds]] But unlike you, ladies and gentlemen, we are very attentive to the fact that this is not a normal situation. In a democratic country, it is not normal to give the government the keys to the truck indefinitely, for a year, while Parliament, which is supposed to represent the nation – and it will not have escaped you that the nation is bubbling – simply watch the trains pass. What we are proposing is a pact of trust between the Government and Parliament. Instead of saying, "Go on your side for several months and we'll see you again in December," we say, "Since you trust us and we trust you, let's meet again at each wave. Instead of considering that this crisis will end in December, wait! [[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Mrs Agnes Thill also applauds]] This is the subject of an amendment by our colleague Guillaume Larrivé, who will be examined earlier: why not meet us at every wave? We know – it seems almost probable – that there will be a wave in spring, but why consider that there will necessarily be one in autumn? Let us organize regular moments of debate! The country needs it. I know the bars are closed, but in the homes, all we talk about is this! The only place we don't talk about health strategy...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u155	Oh, here!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u156	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Mrs Agnes Thill also applauds]] ...it's here, because we gave you full powers. In a democracy, it is not normal for things to happen in this way, and you will not go to the presidential election under the state of health emergency, having all the powers.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u157	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u158	This is the heart of the subject. Indeed, you know, as soon as we get out of this Chamber, many media are questioning us, for example, by asking: "Mr Bernalicis, are you for the curfew at eighteen o'clock? » And I said to them, "I don't know, they didn't ask me the question! Finally, if the journalists ask me the question, but have I been consulted in the Chamber? Have I been asked to vote, my vote, for such exorbitant measures to be taken? No! I was simply asked to vote for a toolbox allowing the Government to make such decisions – and again, I say "the Government" but in reality, it is the Defence Council that makes all the decisions; The Prime Minister, on the other hand, executes himself and the Minister of Health also, possibly, after him. And here, Minister, you have come to ask us to approve a posteriori the measures taken and to autoflagate us collectively, here, in front of you, to give you full powers! You ask us this when a complaint has been lodged and is already being investigated before the Court of Justice of the Republic following the initial masquerade on masks, during which you lied, and while another complaint will probably follow about the vaccine masquerade, since the mayors bring us back from everywhere that the promised doses are not available and that people who want to be vaccinated cannot – that is the reality, whether we are for or against the vaccine.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u159	Even you don't believe what you're saying!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u160	You have therefore come to ask us to extend the state of emergency until 31 December 2021. I had no confidence in the Government before the crisis; I don't trust him much more now!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u161	It's okay!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u162	[[Nicolas Dupont-Aignan applauds]] Do I trust the ability of the French people to organize themselves collectively in the face of the crisis? Yes, a thousand times yes. We have the skills, engineers, researchers and everything we need. What we miss is a government that knows where it's going. Of that Government, we do not want more, nor do we want full powers that go with it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u163	Mr Guillaume Gouffier-Cha has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u164	In view of the abundance of the topics discussed, I no longer know what end to my speech. All of this ends up making us forget the very object of Article 1. I want to go back to what our colleague Nicolas Dupont-Aignan said earlier, which I think is really confusing. You said we were going to extend the state of emergency here and now until December 31, 2021. That is not what we are doing, but that is what you said about the measures that would exist until 31 December. What we extend by Article 1 is only the existence of the legal regime; as to the state of emergency itself, we propose in Article 2 that it be extended only until 1 June. In addition, by removing section 3 of the bill, which leads to the removal of the transitional arrangements, we are forcing the Government to come back and discuss with us in April or May, depending on the health situation, about the strategy and measures that will – or will not – be taken at that time, as it should be in a democracy such as ours, a democracy that works. So we will see at that time. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] If we are forced to operate in this way, it is because – Erwan Balanant has just reminded us – the bill on the sustainability of the legal framework for the management of health emergencies is postponed to a later date, probably before the end of the year, which obliges us to maintain the health emergency regime until the end of 2021. We will therefore vote against the deletion amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u165	I have before me five amendments, Nos 31, 53, 61, 1 and 12, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 1 and 12 are identical. I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 31.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u166	This is a fallback amendment, since the deletion amendments have not been adopted. The Government's vaccination plan is expected to end in late spring, around 21 June 2021. Consistently, the Government should put an end to the possibility of resorting to a state of emergency on that date and not on 31 December 2021. Of course, you will only be able to do so if you rely on the elected representatives, whether they are parliamentarians or local elected officials, trusting them and, if possible, – I heard a colleague talking about the lack of respect that we would be testifying to the officials – avoiding insulting them and accusing them of lying, as you did again, minister, this morning in the media. I can understand the feverishness of your government: the situation is not easy to manage and no one has ever said it was. But this febrileness does not give confidence to the French.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u167	It's not that they're febrile, it's that they're very lame!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u168	Then stop putting forward the fable of the mayor-prefect couple and finally act in a transparent way, trusting the local elected officials.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u169	Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to inform you that, on identical amendments Nos 1 and 12, the Republicans have a request for a public vote before me. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. I call Mr Molac to support Amendment No. 53.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u170	It is also a withdrawal amendment which aims to end the state of health emergency at the end of the parliamentary session. I wanted to draw your attention to one point: measures such as confinement or curfew are in my view both legislative and non-regulatory. Therefore, they should be taken by Parliament by a majority. Otherwise, the Government, by deciding alone, will face the vindiction of the French alone. It alone bears responsibility for the anger that gradually rises against a number of measures that our fellow citizens consider disproportionate and ineffective. I would find it a pity that we could not function normally – unfortunately, a minister said he did not want co-management – because in order to deal with this crisis, that is what we need.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u171	Mrs Brigitte Kuster has the floor to support Amendment No. 61.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u172	[[Protests on several benches of the LaREM group]] We have tabled a number of back-up amendments. That of our group, strictly speaking, is Mr Philippe Gosselin's Amendment No 12, which you will call in a moment. Mr Guillaume Larrivé's amendment No 61 proposes a sort of re-visit clause since he asks that the state of emergency, instead of ending in December 2021 as you propose,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u173	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u174	... ends at the end of July. Minister, a number of arguments have been raised that reflect an incomprehension. We have the impression that a string of lead has fallen on Parliament and that you are imposing this state of emergency on us for no real reason, systematically preventing us from debating.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u175	This is unacceptable!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u176	And I think the French are beginning to understand your way of governing, which is to put Parliament aside. These are not small subjects: we are talking about our fundamental freedoms! One wonders even sometimes if you realize what has become of the daily life of the French.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u177	They don't even listen!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u178	You always decide things from week to week, and today we learn from the Government spokesman that a new change may be introduced next week.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u179	It's anxiogenic!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u180	Week after week, we are stunned by major decisions concerning economic and social issues on which the French are increasingly desperate. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Ugo Bernalicis and Nicolas Dupont-Aignan also applaud]] Mr Larrivé's amendment therefore asks you – it is not a witch – that Parliament be able to decide again in July whether a state of health emergency is still necessary.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u181	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor to support Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u182	Without having been able to delete Article 1, we propose to shorten the time limits by postponing the lapse of the state of health emergency regime to 30 September and not 31 December 2021. Indeed, by the summer of 2021, we have seen that almost half of the French population and all those considered to be elderly or fragile will have been vaccinated. If you follow the logic of your strategy, it is therefore not necessary to extend the health emergency regime for so long – that is, until 31 December.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u183	What year, what century?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u184	We have the opportunity to complete it as early as 30 September, giving us time to prepare for the next summer.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u185	Ian Boucard, in support of Amendment No. 12.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u186	You will have understood that this is an amendment to be withdrawn from Amendment No 61, which has just been brilliantly defended by our colleague Brigitte Kuster. Filed by the Republicans Group, it aims to reduce the date of termination of the state of emergency regime from 31 December to 30 September. You want to explain to us that you were forced and forced to cancel the bill that was intended to allow for the sustainable management of health crises. But who made you do that? It is not the French or our Parliament, but your incompetence: you have made a text without consultation, without listening to the actors, the experts, the officials who could have helped you produce a text that really allows for the sustainable management of health crises. In addition, you have miscommunicated: you have validated a text in the Council of Ministers and we have discovered it by chance – like all the French – on social networks.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u187	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u188	It's amateurism!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u189	How could you think that such a text could be adopted in this way? If we are forced to examine this bill today on the extension of the state of emergency, it is your fault, not ours. We therefore propose that you set the expiry date of the state of emergency regime at 30 September. Such a deadline will give you time to draw the consequences of your current strategy by observing its failures but also – why not – its successes. You will have eight months to work on a project resulting from genuine consultation, before coming back calmly to Parliament to build a relevant text. Without this, by September 30, we may not have an answer for the restaurateurs or for the event sector, and leave those of culture or sport in the incomprehension. I am also thinking of the students: as we have been alerting you for weeks about their situation, the Minister of Higher Education simply replied that there was no concern since psychologists were going to be mobilised. I want to tell you: this is not exactly the answer they were waiting for. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Mrs Agnes Thill also applauds]] We therefore propose an amendment aimed at advancing the end date of the health emergency regime.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u190	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u191	What is the Committee's opinion on the amendments under joint discussion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u192	I am against all the alternative dates proposed. The contents of the container must be distinguished. I would remind you that this is only a framework: Article 1e r does not automatically extend the current state of emergency until 31 December. Its application in time remains subject to the provisions of Article L. 3131-13 of the Code of Public Health, which makes its extension conditional on the vote of Parliament. Your amendments concern the framework and not the content of the state of emergency. Should I remind you that this framework was built and adopted by a large majority of our assembly, in full agreement with the Senate? As for the real change, it is the result of the deletion of Article 3, decided by your Law Committee: a re-visitation clause has been introduced which will allow the content of the state of emergency to be reviewed before 1 June. Your amendments therefore seem to me to be missing their target.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u193	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u194	Mrs Kuster, your presentation of the amendment – and even more so of the article – shows that you are making a confusion that I would like to dispel: we must not confuse the legal regime with the state of health emergency.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u195	As far as confusion is concerned, you know it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u196	Article 1 proposes to extend the legal regime for triggering a state of health emergency if the situation so requires, which we have done on two occasions, including passage to Parliament, as each time the situation has occurred. The difference is important and I hope that my explanations will convince you to withdraw your amendment. We do not propose to extend the state of emergency until 31 December, but to adopt the legal framework that will allow us to trigger it if the situation so requires, which would require the Government to consult you in a debate in Parliament. You want to delete a provision that we have introduced in the text at your request! I hope I've clarified things. I suggest that you withdraw your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u197	He's not sure they understood...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u198	In the absence of a withdrawal, my opinion will be unfavourable, as on all the amendments under discussion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u199	Mr Nicolas Dupont-Aignan has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u200	A member of the majority accused me of the same confusion. If you don't want to prolong the state of emergency for too long, what's the point of this framework? You reason with the absurd. If it's just a frame, if you don't delete it, you can agree to reduce it to September 30th. It would be obvious common sense and at least show your good will. Otherwise, it means that, of course, you want to have your hands free to keep full powers until December 31. Then you will tell us that we must extend until the presidential elections.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u201	Mr Erwan Balanant has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u202	We agree with Julien Aubert's very relevant remark, and the minister has just demonstrated that we are on the same line. Our colleague said that a state of emergency is an abnormal situation, which we all think. He also said that it would be necessary to operate in waves – I would allow myself to repeat his words – and that we had to ask ourselves how we would react in the event of a new wave in April-May. This text provides exactly for this since the June re-visit clause obliges parliamentarians to work in April-May...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u203	May!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u204	...to reach a decision in June. So we fully agree with you, Mr. Aubert. The text provides a framework for action according to the current situation and the effectiveness of our fight against this virus.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u205	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u206	[[Murmures on the benches of the LaREM group]] Mr. Minister, you really think we're bugs to come and explain something like that to us! You tell us: let us not discuss the measures taken by the Government, let us only talk about the toolbox that we could possibly use, at any time, until 31 December. That's exactly the point! If your management of the health crisis was irreproachable, we would not be here to discuss it. You want us to give you full powers. Why would we see each other again in June? So you can give us the Defence Counsel's report? We are not here to read these minutes, but to share decisions and possibly to decide. But no, it's too unbearable for you: you have to have your hands free and do whatever you want. In fact, the French don't want it anymore,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u207	They don't trust me anymore!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u208	...as well as a good part of this House. There is, of course, all those who raise their hands in cadence. My faith is their individual responsibility because there is no mandatory mandate. As for me, as well as the members of France insoubted...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u209	Where's your band?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u210	... and other groups, we say: that's enough full powers! We don't want to leave your hands free anymore. We want you to come before us to detail the concrete decisions you want to make, and to get our approval or not. That's enough of the full-power toolbox! That's enough because you can't handle it! If you want a second investigation from the Court of Justice of the Republic, it's your business.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u211	Threats?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u212	For my part, I do not wish it because it would mean that, once again, we have managed the health crisis in any way.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u213	Mrs Brigitte Kuster has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u214	For the sake of clarity of the debate, I will repeat exactly the terms of the amendment, because I had to say wrongly as the spokesman for Guillaume Larrivé: "The Government wishes to postpone until 31 December 2021 the lapse of the health emergency regime,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u215	Legal regime!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u216	... initially fixed on 1 April 2021 by the law of 23 March 2020. This amendment proposes to set an appointment clause on 30 July 2021. » [["No!" on several benches of the LaREM group]] I think it was very clear and you pretended not to understand, which I regret.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u217	I put to the vote identical amendments Nos 1 and 12.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u218	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 113 Number of votes cast 110 Absolute majority 56 For adoption 35 Against 75
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u219	Mrs Martine Wonner has the floor to support Amendment No 46, as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u220	It aims to simply repeal the state of health emergency regime. I have also proposed co-signing a motion for a resolution on this subject because it is more than urgent to return to ordinary law. Once again, I believe that our public health code contains all the necessary arsenals to accompany and treat the French without forcing them as we are doing. Once again, I ask the question: can we consider, Mr.Minister, finally moving towards a balanced health, economic and social assessment? You all see, ladies and gentlemen, that we are hurling our country into an economic catastrophe which is not without immediate consequences for the mental health of our compatriots. Unfortunately, we will count the dead. I do not deny hospitalizations, but I stress that we are taking disproportionate measures. If we look at the facts under a microscope, we find that a large proportion of deaths are in the third or even the fourth age. The average age of death is eighty-four years. Now, I can tell you, it is young adults who commit suicide in France.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u221	Oh! Stop it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u222	That's the reality!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u223	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u224	I agree with the word "disaster" because the consequences of the adoption of this amendment would indeed be catastrophic: the legal framework for a state of health emergency would be repealed as soon as the law was enacted, which would deprive the public authorities of the legal instrument necessary to deal with the epidemic. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u225	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor to support Amendment No. 60.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u226	It aims to strengthen parliamentary control that we have been talking about for hours and whenever we have to prolong the state of emergency. This control is all the more important because it is a question of a long time. Last spring, we proposed that the administrative authorities be obliged to communicate to Parliament without delay all the acts taken in the name of the health emergency. This provision had been adopted, but was subsequently censored by the Constitutional Council. In its Decision No. 2020-800 DC of 11 May 2020, the Council considers that "by providing for the immediate transmission to the National Assembly and the Senate of a copy of each of the acts taken pursuant to Article 11 of the Law referred, the legislator, taking into account the number of acts in question and the nature of the data at stake, disregarded the principle of separation of powers and Articles 20 and 21 of the Constitution".
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u227	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u228	Different from the provision previously adopted, this amendment draws the conclusions of this decision, but also from Parliament's initial agreement on its principle. Rather than a complete and timely transmission of all acts, we propose the submission of a report that makes a more synthetic and analytical presentation, within a more reasonable time frame. Such a report would meet the objective of more effective parliamentary scrutiny while taking into account the position of the Constitutional Council. It would be good if the Assembly did not revert to a principle that it had recently approved.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u229	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u230	Your amendment is satisfied as the Prime Minister sends Parliament a bimonthly report on the measures taken in response to the state of health emergency. It is available on the Assembly's website on the information mission page set up by the Conference of Presidents last March. In the absence of a withdrawal, I will issue an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u231	I have before me three identical amendments, Nos 9, 25 and 64. Mr Alain David has the floor to support Amendment No. 9.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u232	The purpose of this amendment is to implement proposal No 6 of the flash mission led by our colleagues Philippe Gosselin and Sacha Houlié on the legal regime for a state of emergency in the health sector.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u233	I call Mr Sacha Houlié to support Amendment No. 25.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u234	As our colleague has just pointed out, the amendment takes up a proposal from the flash mission I conducted with Philippe Gosselin, which was designed to assess the state of emergency in order to sustain it. The aim is to introduce a re-visit clause every three months for the initiation or extension of the state of emergency. Without calling into question the usefulness of postponing or prolonging the state of emergency, I believe that Parliament must be given control over this type of measure. This constraint of re-visitation can also be defeated by parallelism of forms: any law of extension could provide for derogation, if necessary, from this provision of the ordinary legislative register.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u235	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 64.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u236	I also propose to limit the period of extension of the state of emergency to three months, so that our country does not remain indefinitely in this regime – it is a matter of the freedom of the French. This measure would have the certain advantage of showing good faith and putting an end to all suspicions, to the legitimate mistrust currently expressed about your intention to extend the duration of the state of emergency in an excessive manner, why not until the presidential elections.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u237	What is the opinion of the committee on the identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u238	We come to the first amendments suggested by the flash mission on the legal regime for the state of health emergency, which I have already had the opportunity to welcome the quality of the work. In committee, I had indicated that they would be carefully examined by me and the Government in the run-up to the public meeting, as the deadlines for consideration in committee did not allow them to be carefully studied. As a preliminary point, you will agree with me that the proposals put forward by the flash mission were intended to be debated during the discussion of a bill establishing a long-term and general framework for the management of health emergencies as a whole. It must be noted that this is not the text we are discussing today. The purpose of this bill is to extend the legal framework of a mechanism specifically designed to deal with the epidemic. In this case and in the specific case of the management of this health crisis, I believe that the text adopted by the Committee on Laws provides sufficient guarantees to reinforce the role of Parliament. In its current version, the bill is in line with the amendment because, by deleting clause 3, we have ensured that a re-visit clause is effective and imposed before June 1. It is not a pious wish, it is a preconisation, it is a reality. These amendments could legitimately be the subject of debate in the context of the sustainability bill, disconnected from any issue of immediate extension. But in this case, I believe that he is satisfied, within fifteen days, with the text adopted in the Committee on Laws. I therefore propose that you withdraw them in favour of a re-visit clause in the sustainability bill. Otherwise, my opinion will be unfavourable, especially since the committee has rejected this provision.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u239	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u240	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u241	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u242	During the discussion in committee, the commitment made by the rapporteur was indeed welcomed. The proposals of the Houlié-Gosselin mission made sense:...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u243	Yes! Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u244	... they allowed us to register in the long term by integrating parliamentary control. But this commitment was not fulfilled:...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u245	They don't respect anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u246	... today, the Government is sending back these proposals without any discussion, even though they could have been embodied in the bill. Why would they be in their place in a text of the perpetration of the state of emergency and not in that one? If they are relevant for a longer period, they are also relevant for a shorter period. In doing so, you are once again, as usual, showing a lack of respect for Parliament. That's unfortunate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u247	Mr Ian Boucard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u248	I am quite in agreement with Mrs Karamanli: the flash mission that the Law Committee entrusted to our colleagues Philippe Gosselin and Sacha Houlié gave back his report, which the committee approved last week. The rapporteur and the minister had undertaken to study his proposals calmly.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u249	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u250	Colleagues' amendments propose to improve the text. We have been calling on you all to propose a text on a state of emergency which only extends the arrangements made last March. A law on a sustainable health crisis management regime has been "unplugged" by the Government; Why reject amendments that seek to improve the one he is submitting to us today? I repeat, if necessary, that the Republican Group will obviously vote in favour of the amendments, especially since our colleague Philippe Gosselin is co-signatory to one of them with Sacha Houlié.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u251	Mr Sacha Houlié has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u252	I understand the rapporteur's position in that it is a law of extension and not of sustainability. The amendment would have reduced the deadline by 15 days – 16 May would have replaced 1 June. I understand in particular the consistency of his position, in the light of what we have built in committee...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u253	You mustn't get down like that!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u254	... by deleting Article 3 which provided for the extension of the transitional arrangements from 1 June to 30 September. Nevertheless – I think the rapporteur will understand this coherent choice – I maintain the amendment, which I will naturally vote for.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u255	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 70.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u256	He proposed the deletion of article L. 3131-15 of the Code of Public Health, which made it possible to suspend fundamental freedoms such as public worship, going and coming, demonstration, etc. Such violations should be made conditional on the vote of Parliament and not solely on the wish of the Prime Minister, given the serious economic and social consequences of the suspension of one of the freedoms in question. I do not understand your stubborn refusal of such a provision, which would have the enormous advantage of demonstrating your good faith by allowing parliamentary scrutiny of the measures taken by the Government, when these violate fundamental freedoms of the French. Our fellow citizens understand less and less why you want to keep all the powers in your hands.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u257	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u258	Unfavorable opinion. The adoption of the amendment would have the effect of repealing, as soon as this Act enters into force, all measures of the state of health emergency such as the strengthening of health control at our borders.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u259	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 71.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u260	It goes in the same direction as the previous one since it proposes to repeal the 5° of the I of the same article L. 3131-15 of the Code of Public Health, which allows the Prime Minister to "order the provisional closure and regulate the opening, including the conditions of access and presence, of one or more categories of establishments receiving from the public as well as meeting places, guaranteeing the access of persons to essential goods and services". The health crisis, as you know, has led to a serious economic crisis in which the collateral victims are, inter alia, travel agencies, sports halls, cinemas, theatres and, of course, all local businesses considered "non-essential" – according to your unfortunate terminology. While a third confinement is not excluded, it is necessary to return to the democratic principles that structure our society, in particular with the right and duty of Parliament not only to control the action of the Government but also to be a force of proposal so that our country can finally emerge from this crisis with many faces: health, economic, social, and today clearly democratic.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u261	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u262	Unfavorable. The adoption of the amendment would have the effect of removing all measures taken to regulate the opening of establishments receiving from the public. These measures, including, unfortunately, the continued closure of certain establishments, are more than necessary in the light of the health situation. The Government is also mobilizing to increase aid to firms affected by the restrictions. I would add that while some people regret that children are deprived of culture, sport and other activities, I believe that our role is to ensure that they are not deprived of fathers!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u263	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u264	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u265	I call Mr Molac to support Amendment No. 54.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u266	We propose that no decision on confinement or national curfew can be taken by the executive without being expressly mentioned in the decree declaring a state of emergency, and that the extension of these measures cannot be authorized without the consent of Parliament. The restrictions on freedoms they impose must be fully debated and validated before national representation. For me, these decisions are not at the regulatory level, but at the legislative level.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u267	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u268	We are dealing with the amendments that the Senate had adopted as part of the debate on the law of November 14, 2020, which the National Assembly had rejected. His position has not changed, nor has mine: my opinion remains unfavorable. The procedure you propose does not allow rapid action to be taken in a reactive manner to cope with the changing health situation. There must be room for manoeuvre and flexibility for the executive, who then reports to Parliament. I would also remind you that it is Parliament's task to validate the extension of the state of emergency and therefore the measures it allows.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u269	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u270	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u271	Mr Paul Molac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u272	It is this method that we are contesting: we are informed a posteriori of the measures already taken, without we being able to say anything about it again. It's really not the right method!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u273	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u274	I will go along with Mr Molac. We are told: don't worry, we will report back to you, and the National Assembly has the means of control. But what is it about? Weeks of control where we ask a two-minute question that we're not answering? Oral questions without debate raising a theme without more answers? Questions to the Government where we are only answered four or five months later? Commissions of inquiry where we allow ourselves to come and lie to go back as if nothing had happened? Is that the means of control? Who do we go to the National Assembly for? For idiots! I'm sorry, Mr. President, but that's the majority feeling among French and French people. And when we see that it is not even the Government, but the Defence Council that makes the decisions, we think that, in the end, we may as well vote for full powers immediately, forever, in all areas and under all circumstances, rather than pretending that we have had the legitimacy of an assembly. It'll be faster! So excuse colleagues who protest because they would, in any case, like to be used for something: to give their opinion, to express their consent or to condemn them. For we never voted here for or against curfew at eighteen o'clock; However, we are all invited to give an opinion on the subject, on the television sets. But what power do we have on this, apart from saying no to full powers, not to the fact that you do what you want, whenever you want, as you want? Yes, that's how it is expressed. In fact, the rapporteur said this in committee: by approving the toolbox, we end up validating its uses, i.e. the measures that are being taken. It is precisely against this drift that we insurrection; That is why we reject this text, these provisions and this government.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u275	I call Mr Molac to support Amendment No. 55.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u276	The previous amendment had initially been adopted by our House, and it had taken a second deliberation to reject it. Things are not that simple, even in this House! Amendment No 55 is intended to ensure that, within the legal framework of the state of health emergency, prefects are able to authorise the opening of retail outlets where measures to prevent the spread of the virus are guaranteed. This possibility, specified by decree, would apply whenever a state of health emergency was declared, but not limited to the current state of emergency. The amendment also proposes that the Prefect take the decision in agreement with the mayor of the municipalities concerned. It is not by chance that I mentioned earlier the incidence rate of the community of communes of the Monts d'Arrée: when this rate is 24, why would all businesses be closed from 18 hours?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u277	This measure prevents children from playing sports!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u278	In the beautiful communes of Scrignac or Botmeur, the virus only circulates very little.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u279	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u280	We have already had this debate during the discussion of the previous bill, and the Assembly has rejected these amendments. In addition, you will find that, despite the application of the state of emergency, retail stores are well open. The state of health emergency does not necessarily imply their closure. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u281	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u282	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u283	On identical amendments Nos 7 and 29, which I shall call in a moment, I have a request for a public vote before the Republican Group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr Julien Aubert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u284	The rapporteur is right: last time, the proposal to give the prefects, in the framework of the famous prefect-maire couple, the possibility of opening certain shops had been rejected by the House. Is that a good argument? You will not have escaped the fact that the Government itself has changed its strategy about ten times, with regard to vaccines such as masks or tests. It's not strategy anymore, but tactics... We're adapting! As the situation has changed, the Assembly is entitled to wonder whether it is possible to depart from the last measure it had adopted. Could we not, today, introduce a little oxygen, put oil in the workings, trust at the local level? A prefect is not a madman who will allow any business to reopen; On the other hand, the dialogue that can take place at local level would make it possible to assess individual cases. The small-sized Elysée knitted T-shirt could, in some places, be adapted to different corpulences, which would justify moving from small to large or even extra-large. It's called adaptation. The Prefects, I remind you, are appointed by the Government and obey the Minister of the Interior, so rest assured, colleagues: by giving them this opportunity, we would not open any Pandora's box. Everything will still be in the hands of the Government. On the one hand, however, we cannot permanently resist the famous prefect-maire duo, and on the other hand, we cannot prohibit it by law from playing any role in the adaptation of standards – standards that are not voted by the Assembly, but decided by the Government, in the context of the state of health emergency.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u285	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 7 and 29. Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor to support Amendment No. 7.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u286	It is always based on the report produced as part of the flash mission on the legal regime for the state of health emergency. During this flash mission, the hearings of the various representatives of the local elected representatives and the prefects made it possible to identify the local difficulties posed by the legal framework of the state of health emergency, which is intended to enable coherent and legible national measures to be taken for all French citizens. Remember: we have, here on several occasions, identified inconsistencies, such as the fact that it is allowed to ride a bicycle without a mask in Paris, but not in Le Mans.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u287	If it were all that!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u288	Examples of this kind have been observed everywhere. To answer this question, raised precisely by our colleagues Sacha Houlié and Philippe Gosselin, I wanted the Socialist and Related Group to support Amendment No 7, which aims to strengthen the consideration of local criteria, and to specify the specifics of the place to be taken into account. However, the purpose of this proposal is not – I insist – to weaken the adoption of certain measures, which must be taken uniformly at national level in order to be effective and legible by all. In committee, Mr rapporteur, you committed yourself to opening this debate in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u289	I call Mr Sacha Houlié to support Amendment No. 29.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u290	The ins and outs have just been presented by our colleague Marietta Karamanli. I will give only a few clarifications. First of all, it is not a question of destabilising the national structure: this centralized system, which allows the application of measures throughout the territory, has shown its effectiveness. It probably explains why France has better results in terms of contamination, incidence or occupancy of hospitals compared to Germany and the rest of Europe. However, I believe it is necessary to clarify the health emergency regime, in particular in order to take account of specific local circumstances. That is why, without destroying, detricating or weakening centralism, which, as I said, gives good results, it must be able to adapt it in order to bring hand-sewn solutions, depending on local situations, which respond to the demands of some local elected officials and certain prefects. The latter may, at times, ease tensions and make more acceptable the restrictive measures of freedoms that apply in the country.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u291	What is the opinion of the committee on the identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u292	I can share your observation. It is of course essential to take account, where possible, of local specificities, and I do not deny that certain measures taken in the context of the state of health emergency, particularly during the first confinement, have been criticized or misunderstood. However, I believe that progress has been made and that the situation on the ground is no longer the same as in the first confinement. It is also important to recall the context that prevailed last March, when uncertainty and urgency had led to measures that no longer seem to us necessarily relevant. You will agree without difficulty that, in the face of a virus circulating throughout the country, it is necessary, in order to take measures that are legible and understandable by all French people, to provide the Government – at the national level – and the prefects – with room for manoeuvre at the local level. Where possible or relevant, the executive already deploys a differentiated policy. This was the case, for example, of the hardening of the curfew, which was applied in some departments before being generalized. On the ground, the dialogue between the prefect and local elected officials is now much more nourished and open. The legal consequences of these amendments are also uncertain: their adoption could weaken many provisions of the decree of 29 October 2020 prescribing the general measures necessary to deal with the epidemic of covid-19 in the context of the state of health emergency. I believe that this is not the time to take this kind of risk and that maintaining flexibility and responsiveness remains essential to managing the epidemic. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u293	What is the Government's opinion on these amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u294	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u295	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u296	The members of the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left will vote in favour of these amendments. Here we could multiply the examples that would justify having a differentiated look from one place to another. I will simply take that of the Seine-Saint-Denis department, which paid a very heavy toll to the crisis, especially during the first wave of the epidemic, by recording a rate of overmortality among the highest in France. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group as well as on several benches of the UDI-I and LT groups, and among several non-attached MPs]] If we have said a lot, at one time, that we have to isolate the sick, we have never done so: we have tested, but we have not isolated. However, in a department like mine, where the density of occupancy of housing is much higher than elsewhere, it would have been possible to isolate people tested positive in hotels. The hoteliers had given their consent. Yet, never – never, never hear you! – a person tested positive in my department was not offered to isolate himself in a hotel. This never happened! All concerned were told to go home and isolate themselves for seven days. But sometimes, at home, it was an F2 where six people lived and where they contaminated the rest of the family. This is one example of how the consideration of certain local particularities would probably have made it more effective.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u297	All right, Mr. Little, congratulations!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u298	That's the reality of the field!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u299	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u300	In presenting his amendment, our colleague Sacha Houlié – who, together with Philippe Gosselin, carried out an extensive and remarkable work on the adaptation of the legal framework for the state of health emergency, in accordance with the mission entrusted to them – took care to indicate that the measure he proposed would not weaken the application of general provisions throughout the country. But, I would say, even if it would do so and force the State representative in the department to consult more, to listen better and to show more pedagogy than the Government, the Prime Minister and the Minister of Solidarity and Health, it would do useful work. I would add, moreover, that not all territorial adaptations would necessarily be in the direction of reducing constraints or restrictive measures: some elected officials, in territories particularly affected by the outbreak of the epidemic, have asked the Government to be able to apply locally, for a short period of time, reconfinations rather than curfews, in order to anticipate and better control the circulation of the virus. This has not been possible in the current legal framework and strategy; It would be tomorrow if these amendments, which the IDU and independent group will obviously support, were adopted.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u301	I put to the vote identical amendments Nos 7 and 29.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u302	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 104 Number of votes cast 103 Absolute majority 52 For adoption 31 Against 72
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u303	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 65.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u304	It is part of the continuity of the debate we have just had, even if it is formulated a little differently. Mr. Molac recalled earlier the incidence rates observed in his electoral district. I admit that I am somewhat envious because, in the Hérault, these rates are much higher than those he indicated, particularly in Béziers. This is really a matter of common sense and logic: the French do not understand why the same solutions are applied uniformly to a territory whose realities are so different from one department to another, and even from one city to another. Unfortunately, it is also about the country's economic survival. You always seem to be stubborn about these provisions, which, however, are only measures of common sense and adaptation as close as possible to the reality of the field. Once again, I find it difficult to understand that such proposals do not receive your approval.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u305	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 8 and 15. Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor to support Amendment No. 8.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u306	Taking on one of the proposals contained in the flash mission report, it is intended to involve Parliament in the work of the Scientific Council, to reinforce its role, but also to enrich the work of Parliament. To this end, we propose the inclusion of two MPs and two senators in the Scientific Council – in both cases, one of the majority and the other of the opposition. Such a measure also seems to me to increase confidence in the opinions of the Scientific Council, as long as they are shared with Parliament.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u307	Mr Gosselin's amendment No. 15 is being defended. What is the committee's opinion on these amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u308	If I understand the reasons behind this proposal, I am not in favour of it. Everyone has to be in their place. Parliament and the Scientific Council play their own role and play an important but distinct role in the health emergency regime. In fact, I do not think it appropriate to change the composition of the Council on its way, when it has been constituted for almost a year. Finally, I sincerely believe that it is up to OPECST, the Parliamentary Office for the Evaluation of Scientific and Technological Choices, a bicameral and trans-partisan body, to play the role of scientific advice for Parliament. The report of the flash mission expresses this wish, to which I fully subscribe. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u309	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u310	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u311	Mr Ian Boucard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u312	Why has Philippe Gosselin tabled Amendment No 15? Because many decisions have been taken recently in the Scientific Council, which has sometimes played the role of Parliament.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u313	In fact, you're the one who wants to play the role of the Scientific Council...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u314	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] At the beginning of the health crisis, in particular, the President or one of the Council's experts announced in the media the reasons why the Government was preparing to take a certain measure: for a few months – and this is still sometimes the case – the Scientific Council played the role of Parliament. We therefore believe that parliamentarians should, at a minimum, be involved in its work.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u315	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u316	With all due respect, Mr rapporteur, the position you are taking presents a contradiction: you are, in a way, in favour of the establishment of a Parliamentary Scientific Council, since you accept the proposal made by the flash mission; But when we propose precisely to compose this Scientific Council, complementing the existing body and allowing parliamentarians to participate, give their opinions and share its work, you object to it, even though we could thus re-create confidence. Why would the members of the Scientific Council hide? What do they have to hide from the people and Parliament? Nothing, normally! It is therefore quite natural that parliamentarians should be involved.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u317	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u318	Forgive me, but the Scientific Council is made up of eminent members of the scientific community who, by virtue of their versatility, complementarity and scientific and health competence, are responsible, in connection with all the research networks in France and with all the international scientific committees, for formulating hypotheses and proposals in relation to the health situation. I myself was a member of parliament. So I readily admit that we have a broader competence in many areas – and I sometimes hear a number of medical opinions here that I, even as a doctor and health minister, would be careful not to express myself. However, my last referral to the Scientific Council was on the following question: "Do you have any evidence as to the probability of efficacy of messenger RNA vaccines on variants involving mutations of the S protein of the coronavirus, particularly on the COV 202012/ 01? "
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u319	It's a thesis subject!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u320	Perhaps, but this is a point that must inform public policy decisions: in order to develop the vaccination strategy, it is important to know, on the basis of the recommendations of the Scientific Council, whether it can be assumed that the vaccine that is being distributed and injected to the French will, in all probability, be effective on the variants. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Where is the place of parliamentarians? It is, of course, here in the Chamber and in all the consultation meetings we have. Last week, the Prime Minister and I met twice with the group chairmen for two hours, who were able to ask all their questions, as they do very regularly, several times a month. The place of a parliamentarian is not, I am sincerely convinced, with the eleven white blouse experts who have been sorted out for their competence and versatility. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u321	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor to support Amendment No. 41.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u322	It also concerns the Scientific Council. Of course, it is consulted by the Minister on very specific issues relating to the efficacy or otherwise of the vaccine on variant forms of the virus. But it will also have to give an opinion, before 1 April, on the health risks associated with the holding of regional and departmental elections in June this year. However, on the basis of this opinion, the Government could decide on a further postponement, regardless of Parliament's decision – a bill on the subject is to be considered in the Senate next week. It is therefore legitimate for us to know how the Scientific Council works and on what basis it bases itself in formulating its recommendations. Some media are echoing a controversy over the lack of an account of its work and decisions. By our amendment, we therefore propose that the work of the Scientific Council be made public and accessible to all, including ourselves, parliamentarians. This would have an educational virtue: we would be enlightened on how scientists perceive a problem, on all the issues that arise, and on how they weigh the pros and cons of a measure – for example, when it provides for a restriction of individual or collective public freedom – before submitting it to the Government, which in turn will normally evaluate its merits. We are asking for nothing but an amendment of transparency.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u323	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u324	This amendment, which aims to increase transparency in the functioning of the Scientific Council, seems to me to be entirely justified in its intentions, but I believe that its potential consequences must be protected. Indeed, I do not want any reservations, contradictions or inconsistencies in the Council to be spread in the public sphere. The Scientific Council must be able to speak unanimously. That is what makes its strength, especially in the context we know. I believe it is necessary to preserve the collective expression of the Council and the strength of its opinions. The opinion is therefore unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u325	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u326	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u327	Mr Julien Aubert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u328	First of all, I was surprised by the minister's response, who explained that, as these subjects were very technical, the poor parliamentarians would be somewhat disconcerted. I would point out that as a member of the Higher Energy Council, I was invited this week to take a decision on a draft decree...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u329	Order-in-council!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u330	... on the prohibition of the installation of sanitary heating and hot water systems, mainly consuming high-level greenhouse gas fuels in residential and professional buildings.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u331	It's a thesis subject!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u332	Believe me, on such a subject, the discussions are technical. From the moment parliamentarians are invited to look at the mechanisms of remuneration for wind electricity,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u333	Were you there?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u334	... one can assume that they could – especially those of them who are doctors – sit perfectly on the Scientific Council. I give you an example, minister: you who, I believe, have been a Member of Parliament,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u335	He's changed a lot since then! Back then, he was a socialist!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u336	...you could have been appointed to the Scientific Committee. If you are able to ask questions to the Scientific Committee, then you are able to attend their debates, so to report transparently. I recall that this ad hoc body was created solely by the will of the President of the Republic, that its composition has not been the subject of any debate, that its decisions are not the subject of any publicity and that it is therefore outside the rules of the CADA, the Commission on Access to Administrative Documents. However, she plays a major role since her president regularly intervenes on television sets without knowing whether he then gives his opinion or whether he speaks on behalf of a college. The rapporteur has told us that he does not want any divisions among Council members on a particular issue to be made public. The statement of the Chairman of the Scientific Committee gives the impression of unanimity. But let us take the example of the Supreme Court of the United States, where dissenting opinions can be expressed: it is interesting to know whether a decision was made by five votes to four or by eight votes to one, because it is not exactly the same, especially on matters relating to public and fundamental freedoms.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u337	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u338	Mrs Agnes Chill has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u339	I understand that the Council's decisions concern matters on which we have no expertise. But that is precisely why it is preferable for us to have a report rather than to rely on ten experts whose name is unknown. This would prevent any information from being squandered in the media, as is currently happening. According to our information – and unless you can contradict them – we have no record of a meeting of the Scientific Committee, which nevertheless submits to the Government the decisions taken, and not the least since they relate to flouted freedoms. Nor has a list of invited experts been provided, contrary to the laws and regulations. That we can participate in the decisions and have a record, that would be the minimum.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u340	Mrs Martine Wonner has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u341	The minister and his cabinet had indeed been seized by mail – I have the letter here – of a request for clarification on the functioning of the Scientific Committee, on the list of its members, on the various meetings that have taken place and on the minutes. In response, it was said that it was not possible to transmit these documents. The CADA, of which I have the answer here, explains very clearly that these administrative documents cannot be transmitted for the good and simple reason that they do not exist. Is it normal for such serious decisions, relating to restrictions of freedoms, to be taken by the executive from opinions of which there is no trace, no element, whether in the form of minutes or administrative documents? [[Paul Molac applauds]] There are enough doctors in the Chamber – and I will take the precaution not to include myself because I know how little my comments are heard here – so that a medical expert can be chosen on these benches to be part of the Scientific Council, which I think would be normal.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u342	I propose the name Martine Wonner!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u343	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 68.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u344	You have just said, Minister, that the place of parliamentarians was obviously not in the Scientific Council. Either – even if this statement indicates a bit of condescendence.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u345	Here! I'm surprised...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u346	For practical reasons, I can understand that. I therefore propose the following solution: the Scientific Committee must be able to be heard at any time by the National Assembly or by the Senate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u347	Nothing already forbids it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u348	It is simply a matter of giving Parliament scope for action and control in the event of a health emergency. I do not think that this request is totally delusional, since it is to restore Parliament's control function. Again, it is a matter of sticking as closely as possible to the reality of the health situation as it is today, so that Parliament can take the best possible decisions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u349	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u350	Your amendment is satisfactory since there is no objection to the hearing of the members of the Scientific Council by Parliament. Standing committees and monitoring missions have already had the opportunity to conduct such hearings. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u351	Mr Sacha Houlié has the floor in support of Amendments Nos 39 and 40, which can be presented together.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u352	These two amendments concern the Scientific Council. I share the view expressed by the minister that the place of parliamentarians is not in the Scientific Council. This, moreover, led me, as rapporteur of the flash mission on the legal regime for a state of emergency, not to associate myself with the proposal of my colleague and co-rapporteur, Philippe Gosselin, who had wanted parliamentarians to sit on the Scientific Council – one of the few proposals we have not drawn up in common. By my amendment No 39, however, I propose that parliamentarians, through the committees – and their respective Presidencies – be able to refer the matter to the Scientific Council for information or further information or for its opinions before they are published, which are sometimes a little late in relation to the date on which the opinions were issued. Amendment No 40 is intended to address a second challenge raised during the discussion. It is true that, on several occasions, members of the Scientific Council – including its chairman, whom we have heard during the flash mission – spoke on television sets and then expressed opinions, if not dissenting, at least not fully in line with the strategy presented to the National Assembly and on which parliamentarians had the opportunity to vote. Therefore, in order to coordinate the statements made by the various members of the Scientific Council, and to ensure that they carry out their duties in full independence and transparency, it is proposed to strengthen their obligations, in particular with regard to ethics, conflicts of interest, confidentiality, independence or impartiality. These two amendments, the last ones I have tabled in this debate, are therefore in line with the mission carried out with our colleague Philippe Gosselin. I would like to apologize for the absence of the latter, who is currently sitting on the Court of Justice of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u353	What is the committee's opinion on these two amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u354	First of all, with regard to Amendment No 39, the relations between Parliament and the Scientific Council are not completely leakproof, and I am in favour of maintaining them as they stand in the context of this health crisis. However, we will be able to have this debate again in the law establishing the general framework. Amendment No 40, on the other hand, is satisfactory in the context of the Covid-19 crisis, since the rules of procedure of the Scientific Council are already exhaustive on these issues. I do not see the point of changing the rules along the way, especially since the functioning of the Scientific Council remains satisfactory: let us try to preserve what works for the time being and let us rest this debate in the context of the bill on sustainability. Unfavorable opinion on these two amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u355	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u356	As the rapporteur has said, the members of the Scientific Council are already subject to the rules of ethics laid down in the Code of Public Health, as well as the obligation to transmit a declaration of transparency of the type IPR, public declarations of interest. Honestly, things have been done right. In addition, Parliament has included in the report of the flash mission all matters relating to the overall functioning and rules of transparency and probity of the members of the Scientific Council. I do not think that this is the time to change these rules and to introduce even greater complexity, because we would risk having to do without experts even though we need them. We would then see them speaking outside of a Scientific Council, while the latter, unable to produce quality opinions, would be devalued. On the other hand, I remind you that you can hear members of the Scientific Council – the committees have done so on several occasions. On the other hand, it seems to me difficult to allow all parliamentarians who wish to do so to refer the matter to the Scientific Council. Let's put ourselves in his place. We ourselves, moreover, only seize it on very rare occasions. In fact, the Council was self-sufficient. It is also seized on two occasions: the outbreak of a state of health emergency or the extension of measures such as those contained in this bill. For the rest of the time, it is quite free to make public opinions transparently. You, moreover, voted for this mechanism, strengthening its transparency and scope. Let us let the members of the Council work because otherwise, I fear, we would be witnessing referrals at all times, and this body would then begin to deliver its opinions in a timely manner. However, we sometimes need its conclusions and its clarification very quickly, for example in the case of vaccination and the sensitivity of the variants I mentioned earlier, as the deadlines are already very limited. Proposal for withdrawal and, failing that, unfavourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u357	Mr Philippe Latomb has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u358	As I said in the general debate, you must hear, Mr.Minister, that Members, on all these benches, and more generally the French, ask you for the greatest transparency regarding decisions and how they are taken. I had even said, during this speech, that the French wanted to be treated as adults. In order for this to happen, they must be able to have the information they need to understand them. If we don't give them, we may face a rejection of these decisions. We are increasingly seeing this trend. Social networks, whatever one thinks, constitute at least a thermometer of the current situation and feelings of the French. Today they find it difficult to have confidence in the decisions taken by the defence counsel because of a certain opacity. So they need this information. [[Mrs. Agnes Thill applauds]] At the time of the review of what happened during the pandemic, Minister, Parliament will need to look at the transparency not only of the Scientific Council, but also of all the other advisory bodies that contributed to the decision. I know that a standing committee can hear the members of the Scientific Council, but you realize that the request for internal reports to this body has not come out of nowhere: we need to know whether an opinion has been adopted unanimously or whether the Council has been shared. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group. – Mrs Martine Wonner also applauds]] During the crisis, there were so many positions, in all senses, on the part of doctors and so-called specialists, that the French no longer understand. Transparency is therefore absolutely necessary, because otherwise it will be the door open to all populisms and to all bad decisions. And that's really not desirable. That is why the MoDem Group is asking you, when the time comes to take stock, to take a step towards full transparency on all past and current issues, and possibly to come if further action is to be taken.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u359	Mr Julien Aubert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u360	I know that the Constitution is a little complex, but it still has a quality: that of existence. But the current power has built up its own Constitution: we no longer have a government but a national defence and security council, accountable to no one, the newly created bodies are no longer independent – the Scientific Council is the government's ad hoc independent administrative authority – unlike their previous counterparts, Parliament is under arrest due to the state of emergency and there is no record of what is happening inside the opaque tower. This is not my vision of democracy. I am surprised, Minister, when you tell us that Mr Houlié's amendment on ethics would add complexity and that there would be a risk of discouraging experts from joining the Scientific Committee. Your argument is ambivalent to say the least... I hope you do not want to say that in view of stricter rules of ethics, some experts would exclaim: "No, finally, I prefer not to be in it. In any case, your answer is not of the kind to reassure the French. Well, let's not pretend there's no controversy. About ten members of the House of Commons and senators, including myself, wrote to you about the accusations, broadcast by video, of the Institut hospitalo-universitaire de Marseille, about the very strong links of some doctors with pharmaceutical laboratories that would place them under influence, particularly the Gilead laboratory, about which four members of the Scientific Committee are targeted. Given the filter you are supposed to have put in place, can you assure national representation that these conflicts of interest no longer exist? And if that is the case, why don't you ask for a halt to this kind of controversy, which obviously only worsens the climate, thus encouraging the French to doubt their institutions? And if you have not carried out all the necessary checks, why don't you approve of Mr Houlié's amendment which would allow harmonisation in this area? [[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Mrs Martine Wonner and Mrs Agnes Thill also applaud]] Since the start, I have been very cautious about this Scientific Committee, which was one day out of a presidential speech and came from nowhere. Institutions are not created in times of crisis: they pre-exist.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u361	Mr Sacha Houlié has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u362	I understand that the rules of the game should not be changed along the way, and that is why I am withdrawing Amendment No 40, even if I propose it again for consideration by this House in the event of a lasting state of health emergency. On the other hand, I maintain Amendment No 39 because I really want us to have direct access to the Scientific Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u363	Bravo! A little courage! Resist!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u364	I know that our requests for consultation, through committee chairmen, could disrupt his work, but we need him to inform us directly in order to make the most informed decisions possible and with the necessary speed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u365	The next item is Mr Guillaume Gouffier-Cha, and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u366	I cannot let go of what you have just said, Mr Aubert: Parliament is not at a standstill during this crisis, it has never stopped its work outside the summer intersession. It does not seem to me that we are at the moment at a standstill since this is the sixth time that we have had to legislate on the state of health emergency – in addition to the exercise of all our prerogatives of control, a very real exercise, does not displease some – and that our work continues in parallel on other subjects,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u367	But it's no use!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u368	... be it on the major republican principles, on security, on animal protection and soon on decentralization and on the fight against global warming. Some commissions have never served as much as at the end of last year, such as the Law Commission. We still have to remind him. We cannot say that Parliament has stopped its work: on the contrary, we are working continuously.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u369	Amendment No 40 was adopted by Mr Aubert.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u370	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u371	Article 2 tends to extend the state of emergency. When it lasts almost a year, we are no longer in an emergency. And when the Government announces that it will continue for six months, that it is necessary to prepare for a difficult next winter, we are still in an emergency... It is a question of knowing what our common rules are. I received a testimony on my Facebook page that I read to you: "By not living to not die, we will surely die without having lived. »
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u372	Oh, there!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u373	There is not one member of the Scientific Council who deals with this issue, not one who is a psychologist or psychiatrist, not one who is interested in mental health. We're in a country where 50% of young people say they're worried about their mental health and 30% of students feel they're depressed...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u374	Fortunately, the Government said it would mobilize psychologists!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u375	... in total a quarter of the population, and this data is not taken into consideration! [[Mrs Mathilde Panot applauds]] What sacrifices are we willing to accept and what can we renounce in the face of this disease? How do we want to organize our lives in covid time? Can't we just have a job-screen-dodo? These questions are never asked here or elsewhere. Yet we are no longer in an emergency after all these months, the measures taken show it all the more: the shops are closed one day, reopened the next, then closed again; the curfew is variable time, sometimes at 20 hours, sometimes at 18 hours... People are not puppets! They're citizens! If we have to live with this dirty thing for a long time, we need to know how we organize ourselves and how we talk to people, in order to make the measures acceptable. We all initially agreed to confinement. But today, there is no more consent to your authority.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u376	I have before me several identical amendments, Nos 11, 17, 27 and 88, to delete Article 2. Mr Alain David has the floor to support Amendment No. 11.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u377	The aim of this amendment is to delete Article 2, which extends the current state of health emergency until 1 June 2021, because we consider that, like any exceptional legal regime, it must at all times be proportionate to the circumstances of time and place. Infringements of fundamental freedoms caused by such a regime cannot be prolonged without Parliament being able to assess the urgent need for such a regime. In this regard, each extension shall not exceed a reasonable period of two or three months. The duration proposed by the Government therefore seems to us to be excessive.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u378	I call Mrs Martine Wonner to support Amendment No. 27.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u379	I will not go back to the total lack of transparency regarding the work of the Scientific Council – since we do not know under what conditions its opinions are given, for lack of knowledge of the minutes of its meetings – but it seems to me important to inform the national representation of an approach undertaken to enlighten the French, beyond the state of emergency, confinement, curfew, these deprivations of liberty: the Free Health Coordination, bringing together several collectives of doctors, today number 30000, issued an appeal on 9 January to be heard by the Government and by the Scientific Council to make quite different proposals to them. They do not take them out of their hats: they come from their practices and, above all, from different scientific studies in this field. The first of its proposals is to set up an independent scientific committee whose members would have absolutely no connection or conflict of interest with the pharmaceutical industry. We could already trust this collective to enlighten the French and the national representation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u380	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor to support Amendment No. 33.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u381	You are asking us once again to extend the state of health emergency. We, the Members of the La France group, do not agree because, in order to live up to a pandemic like this, we need health measures, not authoritarian measures. There is nothing worse in the situation than the current attitude of the President of the Republic and the Government to decide all the time alone. The defence counsel, of which we do not know anything, since its work is covered by secrecy – and it is also meeting more and more often – shows this, as is the general misunderstanding of the measures that are being taken. Realize that we are in a country where high school students strike to ensure their health security, realize that students are protesting today even by asking for the opening of faculties and universities, realize what it means for the young people of our country that to feel a generation sacrificed! And there are artists, who wonder if they will soon have to make their performances in churches but also in supermarkets or metros, where the places are crowded! And there are employees, who wonder how much longer the Government is going to abandon them by increasingly squandering large public money companies, allowing them to finance massive redundancies.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u382	You're the good guys and we're the bad guys, it's well known...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u383	The basis of the policy, ladies and gentlemen, is to say that there are always alternatives to what is decided.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u384	It's all we have to do!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u385	You have to think about the moment! We're not in the emergency anymore! But you have failed to plan the evolution of the health situation. You are partly responsible for the impasse in which we find ourselves. Yet there are solutions: we have tabled eleven bills, proposed four guides, four plans, even an alternative plan to confinement, but you and your government never listen to anyone, whether it is the other parliamentarians, the associations, the extras that manifest! But we do not agree: we want health democracy and not the containment of our freedoms!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u386	We are not all single, we also have children, and for some of them are students!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u387	And you sacrifice them the way you sacrifice ours?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u388	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor to support Amendment No. 88.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u389	First of all, I think, and it is at the heart of our discussion, that you have been wrong to consider from the beginning, Mr.Minister, that deciding with several heads rather than in one, that the time for collective reflection, the time for deliberation, was lost time. This is one of the explanations of your failure to manage the crisis. Secondly, I think that in democracy, one must never get used to seeing its fundamental freedoms amended, i.e. amputated. However, by extending the state of emergency in successive phases, you tend to habituate the French to a confined democracy, no matter what you say. Thirdly, you have managed in a vertical, technocratic way. This mess has fallen on you and no one would have wanted to be in your place, I will not give you lessons from this point of view; But, any value judgment aside, you managed it with a lack of humanity. I am not sure that you have considered the concept of the State that takes care and protects, of the State that also takes the time to rely on the advice of local elected officials to make the right decisions. I want proof of the latest scandal, the vaccine scandal.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u390	It's not a scandal, stop!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u391	The elected officials, the doctors, the nurses, all the actors in the field, are energetically mobilizing for life to take over, and the vaccine seems the only solution... But you're focusing on custodial measures. Neither do you hold the language of truth. You should have said it frankly: you have abandoned industrial sovereignty and renounced the state that takes care of the population, which explains why we do not have doses of vaccine.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u392	We gave up the state that takes care of it? What about partial unemployment?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u393	With a clear speech, you would gain more confidence from the French. But this is not the case: it is a scandal that will come back to you.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u394	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u395	In view of the health situation, the extension of the state of health emergency is necessary in order to protect the French and to combat the epidemic effectively. A pure and simple exit from this regime, as early as 17 February, would be particularly dangerous. Furthermore, by deleting Article 3, the Law Commission imposed a re-visit clause before 1 June next. This perspective seems reasonable and perfectly appropriate. I therefore express an unfavorable opinion on these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u396	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u397	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u398	Mr Erwan Balanant has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u399	I am quite surprised by the words of my colleague Jumel, whom I always know very sincere, fair and generally crazy. To say that we have abandoned the state that protects, is quite frankly a bit of coffee: if there is a state in Europe that has made the decision to help companies...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u400	To help companies, there's no problem!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u401	This may displease you, but without helping companies, it would be difficult to help employees. We have also decided to set up a rather unique system of partial unemployment, which is certainly the most protective in Europe, and even in the world. In the face of difficulties faced by students, a number of aids have also been introduced. You cannot blame us for giving up the idea of a social and protective state.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u402	The Government is completely inactive in the face of the thousands of redundancies!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u403	You don't even believe it yourself, Mr. Jumel!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u404	Stop making us think everything's okay!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u405	[[Exclaims on the banks of the GDR Group]] You're still talking about the vaccine scandal, blablabla. I have a question to ask you, Mr Jumel, even if, as this is not the rule of the game, you will not be able to answer: yesterday, which country in Europe has the most vaccinated of people?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u406	Belgium!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u407	It's France!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u408	Bravo! You're champions! We're the best!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u409	Three weeks late!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u410	We have not fallen behind, we have made the choice to protect the weakest.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u411	Stop!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u412	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group. – New exclamations on the banks of the LR group]] Yes, it is! You will see, in a few weeks, we will have immunized massively with a strategy that protects the population. At some point, we have to tell the French the truth, and it seems to me that they are hearing it more and more.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u413	Let's stop the polemics!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u414	More than 100,000 French have been vaccinated!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u415	According to the police or the unions?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u416	Yeah, but we're three weeks late!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u417	Ladies and gentlemen, let us find some serenity in our debates. Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u418	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LaREM group. – Bruno Studer ironically applauds]] First of all, as far as the state that protects is concerned, we know from the beginning of the quinquennium: the richest, the biggest, the healthy, you protect them. I had the opportunity to say this: for the support of legal persons, including economic support, you have not been bad. You have been effective in triggering business aid. We have also supported a number of the proposals made in this direction, regretting the lack of conditionality of the support measures implemented. [[Claims on several banks of the LaREM Group]] For legal persons you are good, but when it comes to preserving natural persons, men and women, taking care of people, the most fragile, students, responding to the distress that explodes in our face, like that of students and more generally of youth, then that's zero!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u419	What about partial unemployment?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u420	When it comes to vaccines, you're funny, Mr. Balanant!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u421	Not as much as you!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u422	In any case, you would be if the situation wasn't sad... You rely on yesterday's figures to mask the fact that France is the last student in the class in terms of vaccination. In Dieppe, when there were 100 vaccines a day last week, we fell to seventy-two; in Eu – north of my constituency – when there were 100 vaccines a day last week, we fell to fifty-two; In Neufchâtel-en-Bray, when there were 100 vaccines a day last week, we fell to thirty-two!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u423	That's the reality!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u424	[[Mrs Mathilde Panot, MM. Alain David, Maxime Minot and Pierre Cordier applaud]] People are mobilizing, they are coming because they are told that the vaccine is there to protect them, they are knocking on the door of vaccination centres as they suffer, for some, from heavy pathologies that make them fragile. Those who are most likely to get seriously ill are told if they get the virus to come back next month or the following month! If this is your way of taking care of people's lives, then there is a gap between you and us, and I assume it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u425	All right, Jumel!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u426	Mr Ian Boucard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u427	Mr Balanant, it is a constant: you have the ability to turn your failures into success. [["But no! » on many benches of the LaREM group]] I am glad, like all the French, that 100 000 of our fellow citizens were vaccinated yesterday. But we're still three weeks late I'm sorry to tell you, your communication operation started in an EHPAD...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u428	They immunized Mauricette!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u429	...where four residents were vaccinated. This was done with great reinforcement of communication, in the presence of all the French television channels. There were then visits by the Prime Minister and the Minister of Health to a hospital in Lorraine to attend the vaccination of three people. They were in their role,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u430	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u431	...it's great, but the truth is that after a week, we vaccinated 150 people! Why did the vaccination campaign accelerate? Because there was the grunt of local elected officials...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u432	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u433	That's not the point!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u434	That's the truth!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u435	... which echoed that of the population: in the ranking of the number of people vaccinated, we were the last in Europe, and even among the last in the world. We even got a false anger from the head of state, for which it was scandalous and which had to be accelerated. He had probably forgotten that he was at the head of the state. The vaccination campaign is not a success. We hope it will become so in the coming days, but stop explaining to us morning, noon and evening...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u436	What's the matter? It's the end of the game!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u437	What matters, Mr. Balanant, is that we're already three weeks late...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u438	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u439	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group – Sébastien Jumel also applauds. – Mr Bruno Studer ironically applauds]] ...and that these three weeks of delay will penalise our country in the years to come.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u440	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u441	Ladies and gentlemen, it has been three and a half hours since our discussions on the state of health emergency began. They are neither the first nor the last, in any case, with regard to health measures. There is no problem, I am prepared to devote all the necessary time to it. If you wish, I will be at the disposal of Parliament until late in the night, and that does not cause me any difficulty.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u442	Neither do we!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u443	We have not discussed the effectiveness of the curfew, the need for a legal regime to introduce management measures, or the purpose of measures taken in France or abroad. Nor have we stressed France's ability to keep its schools open, when some European countries no longer offer children the opportunity to go to school for more than nine months.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u444	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u445	Forgive me for telling you: I am still on my hunger; I would not like us to leave ourselves, after hours of debate and hours of presence in the Chamber for each of you and myself, without having dealt with any substantive subject. I have no problem with the pigeon shooting exercise. Allow me to take up a few formulas, which have been launched by members of the opposition, both on the right and on the left, for only fifteen minutes: we would lack humanity, we would have a totalitarian will, we would be incompetent, we would cumulate the fiascos and scandals by putting Parliament to a halt.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u446	That's the reality!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u447	[[Vif applause on many benches of the LaREM group and on several benches of the Agir ens group. – Mr. Erwan Balanant also applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, the French begin to see the permanent outrages and anti-Coué method of some parliamentarians or local opposition elected officials, who, whenever a measure is taken, immediately say that it never works.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u448	That's the reality!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u449	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] I say it with all sympathy, and with all friendship: the French are getting a little tired of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u450	And you don't tire them?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u451	[[Same movements]] In the face of the pandemic, they've been in trouble for eleven months...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u452	Please, ladies and gentlemen, let us remain calm.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u453	While most of the countries around us are under widespread confinement, the French see that their children go to school, that the economy has been supported and that jobs are preserved thanks to partial unemployment and the solidarity fund. The situation is difficult: no one denies it. Piloting and managing a health crisis with all the uncertainties caused by the virus, by variants, by vaccines, by population movements, by phenomena – sometimes human – that can exacerbate the epidemic, of course it is difficult. No one said, at any time, that we would have done everything right...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u454	Look at your popularity rating!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u455	And you're yours!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u456	...or that our neighbors would have done everything right and that everything would be perfect in the best of the worlds. No one's ever said it. [[Protests on the benches of the LR and FI groups]] [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group. – "Unfortunate! » on several benches of the LR group]] Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, help us, make useful proposals, explain to us the alternatives, roll up your sleeves, go to the territories and the vaccination centres – I went there, I visited seven of them in the territories within ten days. You will then see that there are always two kinds of people in life, in Parliament and elsewhere: there are those who are looking for problems and those who find solutions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u457	We are not going to relaunch the debate on these amendments: there is still a lot to be examined, which will allow us to keep the debate alive, do not worry.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u458	[[Protests on the benches of the LaREM group]] We'll see who'll be re-elected!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u459	You have nothing to do with citizens!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u460	That's only what you're worried about, Mr Cordier!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u461	Ladies and gentlemen, I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments, while we return to our minds.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u462	The meeting was resumed. Colleagues, I invite you to be more serenity, avoiding invectives. I have before me a number of amendments, Nos 82, 51, 13, 44, 3, 56, 4 and 38, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 13 and 44 are identical, as are Amendments Nos 3 and 56. I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 82, as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u463	This is, of course, an appeal amendment, to demonstrate the absurdity of the situation. For months, the public health scarecrow has been brandished to overstep fundamental freedoms. Regardless of the gravity of the health situation, our political system is organized around a principle of balance of powers that has been challenged by the Government for almost a year now. However, it should not be necessary to recall that when you evict Parliament, you evict the representatives of the French people, who have serious doubts about the chaotic management of the health crisis. You said, Minister, that the French see that schools work and that we are not confined. But they also find that we lack doses of vaccines, and that they do not understand. Minister, this morning, on a public service radio channel, you said that some local elected officials were telling fables – these are the words you used. In particular, you accuse the mayors of lying when they say that they incur expenses for vaccination, and you say that it is the state services that pay everything. For information, the city of Béziers bought syringes, dressings, compresses, small medical equipment for almost 6000 euros only last week. Other expenses that she incurs, with great pleasure, I reassure you, do not say the contrary: the hiring of health personnel, the provision of a entertainment room as a vaccination center and that of the municipal staff, the provision and installation of the equipment, the vaccination boxes, the computer, the transport, with the means of the communal centre of social action – CCAS – of Béziers, of the elderly, and the expenses incurred for the healthcare staff, breakfast, lunch... All this, the city of Béziers, like many other cities and mayors in France, does with great pleasure, because it is our duty. Do not tell fables and lies; This is not true, and the French are well aware of the situation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u464	On the same amendments Nos 13 and 44, I have a request from the Group of the European People's Party for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr Julien Aubert has the floor to support Amendment No. 51.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u465	It is a matter of shortening the state of emergency by providing for a term at the end of March rather than in June, which would make it possible to be consistent with your desire for a re-visit clause on the health strategy in April for the elections scheduled for June. [[Applause on the benches of the LR and LT groups]] Our colleague replied earlier that Parliament was not at the end of the day. He has an excuse: it's his first term. A lion in captivity doesn't know that savannah exists. So I'm going to ask him a few questions. Have you been called upon to vote on the suspension of Parliament's work? In the United Kingdom, where there is a real Parliament, the latter voted on this point. Did you vote the membership of the Scientific Committee and audition its members before their appointment? I'm not. Have you voted for testing, masking, containment? In the United Kingdom, they voted for containment. Did you vote for curfew? Imagine that the Knesset has 24 hours to reject the measures taken by the Government in the context of the state of emergency, and it has voted to reopen the shops; This is a Parliament! You may think that voting, while the country is sinking, animal and zoo laws or brokering laws is taking care of, but I'm not here in an occupation home. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Minister, you have preferred not to respond to conflicts of interest: this avoids reminding you that you are and will remain the minister of the fiasco on the tests, of the fiasco on the masks, of the fiasco on the vaccines. There are two kinds of ministers: those who have results and those who resign.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u466	And there are those who despair of becoming minister one day...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u467	I call Mr Gosselin to support Amendment No. 13.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u468	I am pleased to see you again for this debate, Mr President. We were with our colleague Antoine Savignant at the Court of Justice of the Republic: another atmosphere, I can assure you. We are going to extend the exception again, with new and longer states of emergency. Beyond elongation, it's banalization. We will see earlier that other dates may be moving. In any case, I find it very unpleasant that the amendments we tabled with Sacha Houlié on improving the system, transparency and ethics have been written off. We are gradually getting used to a form of trivialization of the state of emergency, with an extraordinary right, exorbitant to ordinary law, while we are dealing with whole sections of fundamental rights and ordinary law, including labour law. The re-visit clauses are hypothetical. You're proposing a date for June 1st, far away. There are hall noises – which you may deny if necessary – which indicate that hotels, restaurants, discotheques, theatres are not reopened. But all this is considered to be trivial. Not later than last week, you told us in the Law Committee, Minister, that this text was only a technical text dealing with a calendar issue. Well, no, it's not just a technical or calendar question: it's a particular condition. We recognize that the Government must take action, of course, but it must not lead us into tunnels where Parliament cannot meet and evaluate public action, which is our honour and our constitutional mission under article 24 of the Constitution. On June 1st, it's a long way; We propose 1 April, the initial date set for November.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u469	Mrs Agnes Chill has the floor to support Amendment No. 44.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u470	No one here denies that there is a virus that kills, but this amendment provides for the extension of the state of emergency until April rather than June so that Parliament can be consulted again as soon as possible. We are all here for democracy, none of us would want to see a single party governing, deciding for all of us, as happens in some countries. If I say that, it is to draw your attention to what democracy is, which is always to protect and defend. There are a number of things that currently bother me in our democracy. The first is the date, which leaves the Government with full powers for too long, until the end of the year. We could come back to vote for confinement, we could come back to vote for something. Another thing that undermines democracy: those people drawn by lot, who have no legitimacy. Who are they? Do you know them? Who does he represent? Do you know what they think? Do you know their ideas? No. I think your government is ruining democracy. Another thing: all the amendments declared inadmissible. And you have the audacity, Minister, to ask us to make proposals! We spend our time doing this, but you declare them inadmissible or you do not take them into consideration. I pass on freedom of worship, before Christmas – and fortunately it has been restored –, on the freedom of education that will still be called into question... In short, our democracy, I find it ill, and this amendment aims to prevent it from continuing to sluggish. I therefore intend to warn you here: if democracy is ignored, it will end up being seen. You shouldn't have full powers all year round.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u471	Mr Alain David has the floor to support Amendment No. 3.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u472	The purpose of this amendment is to limit the extension of the state of emergency regime to an additional two months, until 16 April 2021. Each extension shall not exceed a reasonable period of two or three months. The length of time proposed by the Government seems to us to be excessive.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u473	I call Mr Molac to support Amendment No. 56.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u474	You told us, minister, that we had not discussed the closure of shops, the opening of schools, the curfew or the cessation of demonstrations. We did not talk about it at the initiative of the Government, that is clear. But we have, of course, talked about this through all those of our amendments which have not been rejected under Article 45. We also talked about it because we sent letters, addressed written questions, topical questions, and we made tons of proposals to you,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u475	Stayed unanswered!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u476	... but you prefer to decide everything on your own, without telling us; or, when you tell us, it's only for informational purposes. And you're surprised that we didn't support you, but first we'd have to know where you want to go! The French realize that this does not work well in this country, but that they are reassured, it is not because we ask questions that hinder you that this will prevent you from being effective: since you do not want our help, it is necessarily that you are effective by yourself. The French will judge. If I judge by what happens in my National Assembly mailbox, they are very worried.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u477	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u478	[[Mrs. Martine Wonner applauds]] They're asking us why we're not stopping this mess. So don't try to put this on our backs: you wanted to decide everything on your own, well you'll take care of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u479	Mr Alain David has the floor to support Amendment No. 4.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u480	The aim of this withdrawal amendment is to limit the extension of the state of emergency regime to an additional ten weeks, until 1 May 2021. We consider the length of time proposed by the Government to be excessive.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u481	Amendment No 38 by Mr Sacha Houlié is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u482	As in Article 1, I express an opinion against the amendments to set an alternative date to that of 1 June. This extension of three and a half months is fully adapted to the health situation, as noted by the Council of State. The Scientific Council also delivered an opinion in favour of this extension; I believe that his opinion should be taken into account. It also seems to me necessary to maintain a reasonable period of time which will allow us to approach the deadline of 1 June with sufficient hindrance on the development of the health situation. I remind you that we have a first British mutant, a second South African, and we are talking about a Brazilian mutant: in total, there would have already been fifty-two mutations of the virus, and we are not immune to other mutations. That is why we need to take a step backwards: the proposed date is quite appropriate from this point of view. Unfavorable opinion on these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u483	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u484	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u485	Mr Philippe Gosselin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u486	[[Applause on the benches of the LR and LT groups. – Mrs Agnes Thill also applauds]] I am hardly surprised by our rapporteur's answer, but I would like to raise a point, as we have already done in committee. An argument, almost authoritative, expressed before the national representation is the opinion, or even the agreement, of the Scientific Council. I would like this body to be consulted, but it only issues an opinion, which is absolutely not binding on Parliament – it would be all that is missing! We are here the place of decision, we are a place of evaluation and control. It is not at all audible to bring everything back to this opinion of the Scientific Council or to add the opinions of the Scientific Council, the Defence Council, the Immunization Council, the High Council of this and the thirty-five jurors citizens... There are 577 jurors here: this is called parliamentarians, MPs, and they have the legitimacy of universal suffrage.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u487	Mr Nicolas Dupont-Aignan has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u488	[[Mr François Ruffin applauds]] I support these amendments. If we are to suspend the work of the National Assembly on every variant of the virus, rapporteur, this will never stop! The argument is amazing! How can we say something like this? As for you, Minister, you are surprised that you do not receive much support from Members of Parliament. As long as you never listen to them, as you want to close the National Assembly on the issues that concern you, you should not be surprised that there is no extraordinary bond of trust between you and her... The most serious thing is that we have constantly made proposals. But you don't even answer the mail. The contempt you have for the French, through us, is increasingly evident. I know the task is difficult, I never said it was easy; We also ask you not for perfection, but for a minimum of exchange, understanding and debate. What is the interest of the Government in disregarding national representation, therefore the French, at this point? What's the point of being isolated in solitude? What's the point of perpetuating mistakes? Sooner or later in life, you have to learn the lessons of your mistakes and lies instead of being trapped in them! The French will judge you. We will have done everything to warn you about the health situation in the country, but we can't help you anymore. By muzzling the National Assembly once again, you are taking an extremely serious decision for our institutions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u489	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u490	Mr Minister, you have invited us to discuss concrete issues related to the management of the health crisis – for example, measures related to the opening of schools – and I also want to testify, after Emmanuelle Ménard, that local elected officials are not liars. In the context of the vaccination campaign, the mayor of the city of Vendôme, located in my constituency, made available premises, logistical and human resources, as well as equipment, but at no time did I hear the representative of the ARS say – and yet I attended the installation meetings – that the State would pay the costs associated with the installation of the vaccination centres. Perhaps you can tell us some good news today? Will the expenditure incurred by the local authorities for the installation of vaccination centres be borne by the State through the SRAs? I can't wait to hear your answer! [[Applause on the benches of the IDU-I, LR, FI and GDR groups. – Nicolas Dupont-Aignan also applauds]] As for the comments you made before the suspension of the session on the vaccination centres, I must admit that my arms fell. You welcomed the role of local elected officials in the creation of these centres while you were personally opposed to their establishment! When the elected representatives put it to you, you were resolutely against it! It took the pressure of the territorial elected representatives and the theatrical blow of the President of the Republic – who probably forgot at that time that he was the only decision-maker and responsible! – to convince you to set up vaccination centres. [[Applause on the benches of the IDU-I, LR and LT groups]] I find your attitude quite amazing!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u491	Anything! We're at the limit of pathology!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u492	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u493	Minister, you have asked us to make proposals to you. There's one! In Abbeville, in my constituency, while the number of vaccinations was expected to increase from 750 to 1000 per week, it fell by 150. From what I hear on all benches, the situation is the same everywhere in France. Why? Because there are not enough doses! For several months – indeed, it has been a year – you have been applying measures to restrict individual freedoms. Never in its history did our country experience a curfew at eighteen o'clock. The closing of bars, restaurants, cinemas and concert halls: never seen! Minister, are you ready to put pressure on pharmaceutical groups? Will you use the compulsory license, as you invite geneticist Axel Kahn and epidemiologist Antoine Flahault? Will you decide to have the Pfizer and AstraZeneca vaccines manufactured by the Sanofi laboratory, whether he wants it or not? Will you use the possibility that you have with the compulsory license to have millions of doses manufactured on French territory? [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] If Sanofi refuses, you can requisition his production tool. This would ensure the rapid delivery of vaccines to French citizens over 75 years of age in the first stage and, in a second stage, to all French citizens regardless of their age!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u494	I put to the vote identical amendments Nos 13 and 44.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u495	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 103 Number of votes cast 103 Absolute majority 52 For adoption 34 Against 69
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u496	I call Mr Molac to support Amendment No. 57.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u497	It aims to ensure that the curfew decreed by the executive since 15 December cannot be renewed beyond a period of two months, i.e. after 15 February, until after Parliament's agreement. The curfew which has become widespread in the Territory prohibits citizens from leaving their homes for a period of at least ten hours, except for very limited exceptions, and thus constitutes an exceptional measure of deprivation of liberty, which the Government must discuss with Parliament and which Parliament must decide on by examining a draft law and not by means of a random declaration by the Government on the basis of article 50 (1) of the Constitution, a non-binding declaration for the executive.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u498	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u499	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u500	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u501	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u502	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u503	I fully support Mr Molac's amendment. Let us be aware of the aberration of the situation in which we find ourselves, ladies and gentlemen! For the first time in our history, a curfew is decreed at eighteen o'clock. I repeat, even during the occupation and the war in Algeria, such a measure had not been taken. But we are in a very different situation today. The curfew at eighteen o'clock was decreed without a vote, without any discussion with the citizens. This situation is quite aberrant when we think about it: we have given full powers to the President of the Republic! Each one of us feels in his life the power of the Fifth Republic: it decides the kilometers we have the right to travel, the activities that are allowed or forbidden, the time at which we must lie down or be in front of our screens! Of course, we have consented to the first confinement, but today we do not consent to the measures that come from above when they should be taken in agreement with the people. What sacrifices are we willing to accept and what sacrifices are we refusing? There is no room for discussion on these important issues. We are, in fact, faced with a real health dictatorship.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u504	That's it...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u505	[[Nicolas Dupont-Aignan applauds]] When nowhere can measures as powerful as curfew and as essential to people's lives be discussed, when the Prime Minister or the President of the Republic decide alone, then it is democracy that is being undermined!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u506	Mr Nicolas Dupont-Aignan has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u507	Mr Ruffin pointed out the staggering gap between the disappearance of the National Assembly and the constraint on our fellow citizens. This constraint is, moreover, absurd in terms of health for the inhabitants of large cities. The influx into the subway at 17 hours thirty or 17 hours forty-five is enough to convince one another. How can we generalize to the whole territory a measure whose effects are counterproductive in certain places? This is the absurdity of a decision taken in a solitary, automatic and without any counter-power. Do you know how much our fellow citizens can no longer do with measures falling from above, which are never debated or approved and which, moreover, have no health effectiveness? You are only widening the gap between the French and the institutions of the Republic and, in doing so, you are making a future bomb. You are unaware of the risks you are taking and you are cut off from the country. You make France an exception.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u508	That's right: we kept our schools open!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u509	In all democracies, measures related to the health crisis are voted on. It bothers you to hear it, but if this bill had been passed by Putin's Russia or Trump's United States, you would have been the first to launch petitions, protest and publish forums! You bear the responsibility for the end of our democracy and the individual freedoms of the French. You'll take over!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u510	Mrs Emilie Bonnivard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u511	In keeping with what has just been said, I would like to point out that the excessive use of the state of emergency has deprived our assembly of debates and that, without these debates, the deputies we are have been unable to work alongside the Government and to make our proposals heard. So don't overturn the argument, minister! [[Applause on the benches of the LR group and on some benches of the LT group. – François Ruffin also applauds]] Take the case of winter sports resorts, which fuel an entire economy in our territories and represent hundreds of thousands of jobs and almost 10% of our gross domestic product. Not once has our House been led to debate on the merits of the decision to close them! We have been obliged to refer the matter to the Council of State so that, at the very least, the actors and elected representatives of the mountains have the opportunity to be heard, to explain their specificities and the difficulties they face, and also to try to understand the factual, health-related reasons for which the Government has decided not to allow the reopening of the ski resorts. [[Applause on several benches in the LR group. – MM. François Ruffin and Nicolas Dupont-Aignan also applaud]] Not once have we had the opportunity to debate this issue in the Chamber – not even an evening, not even an hour! It's absolutely incomprehensible. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group and on several benches of the LT group. – Nicolas Dupont-Aignan and Agnès Thill also applaud]] I wanted to say that because the Government must announce in an imminent manner its decision not to allow the reopening of winter sports stations. They will have been closed all season, one year without activity, which is catastrophic for the mountain economy. There is great despair in many families, but we have never been able to mention their situation in this House, which is unacceptable. The situation of winter sports stations deserved a debate in the National Assembly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u512	Mrs Nathalie Porte has the floor to support Amendment No. 84.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u513	The evolution of the epidemic varies from department to department. It is therefore abnormal and illogical to apply uniform decisions at the national level without seeking to calibrate the departmental provisions as best as possible. The aim of this amendment is to ensure that departments not affected by the epidemic are not subjected to measures as drastic as those departments in which the situation is poorly controlled. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Mr Nicolas Dupont-Aignan and Mrs Agnes Thill also applaud]] The French are tired of living under a regime of deprivation of liberty and no longer want to hear that it will last. In turn, communities and businesses in the territories have been able to offer proposals to help us get out of the health crisis as quickly as possible. Unfortunately, you do not hear, you do not listen and you do not respond to the proposals made to you, Minister. Let at least our local elected officials, who do a great job, act in conscience!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u514	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u515	We have already addressed this issue when we examined the amendments to the additional article after Article 1. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u516	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u517	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u518	Mr Philippe Gosselin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u519	Since the beginning of the legislature, we have been talking about differentiation and taking into account the territories. The 3D bill – decentralization, differentiation and deconcentration – is announced for the beginning of the year, unless it is the 4D bill – decentralization, deconcentration, differentiation and decomplexation – not to be confused with 5G! By this inflation of the letter D, one boasts to whom better better the couple formed by the mayor and the local elected and respect for the territories. It is also recalled, in accordance with the Constitution, that the Republic is decentralized. In reality, the Government has a very jacobine vision of managing the health crisis. [[Applause on a few benches of the LR group]] Admittedly, we live officially in a unitary state; I can hear it. Paris is the capital, of course, but I would like to remind you once again that the Republic is decentralised and that there are territories, not only in mainland France but also in the overseas regions, in which the climatic, epidemiological, geographical, economic and human conditions, among others, are very diverse. Then why do you want to see only one head at all costs? Unity is not uniformity. Take into account the differentiation of territories, their singularity. The incidence rates of covid-19 are not the same in different departments, for example between the Lower Rhine and the departments of the South-Uuest, or between the North and some departments of the South-East. It is always possible to adapt the measures. But you decided to set up a curfew at 18 o'clock everywhere and want to see only one head. One comes up with a question as to whether your decisions are not about communication rather than the search for effectiveness.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u520	Mrs Martine Wonner has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u521	I, too, feel that the Government is totally grounded. The decisions that have been taken have always been in the same direction since the beginning of crisis management. You do not respect the territories and the difference, which is not in principle but is real, between the provision of care they offer and the circulation of the virus they know – of which you yourself stress the inequality. The proposals that could be made by health professionals in the different territories would deserve to be listened to, heard and respected. The French do not want state medicine; They trust their general practitioners, health professionals and local elected officials. Let's stop suffering from your medical diktat.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u522	Mrs Laurence Trastour-Isnart has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u523	Mr Minister, I am appalled by the denial of democracy that we are currently witnessing in this House, by the comments you made earlier, by the tone you are using and, finally, by the state of emergency: you are asking us to make proposals but, by declaring and extending the state of emergency, you are preventing us from doing so. [[Claims on several banks of the LaREM Group]] You referred earlier to vaccination, about which I will only take the example of my constituency. Luckily Louis Nègre, mayor of Cagnes-sur-Mer, organized a vaccination centre there with the clinic! Luckily Christian Estrosi has mobilized to receive vaccines for the metropolis Nice Côte d'Azur! Otherwise, there would be no vaccination centres or vaccines!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u524	Is that what you're saying to me? Are you sure? That's a really bad example!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u525	[[Same movements]] Yes, I'm sure we can call him to check it out! Indeed, Mr Estrosi has mobilized and it is thanks to his mobilization that vaccines have arrived. I would also like to return to the subject of the school. May I speak?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u526	A little silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u527	[["Oh there! On several benches of the LaREM group. – Mrs Martine Wonner applauds]] It is true that our children go to school – fortunately for them. But, on the other hand, they are tainted by the prevention spots broadcast on television. When, for example, they show up a grandmother in the emergency room after a family reunion, do you know what an 11-year-old says? He says, "Mom, we're all murderers! » That's the truth! Excuse me for telling you. Maybe you don't have children, maybe you didn't experience this,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u528	Spectacular!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u529	...but look at what children are going through today and how they are experiencing this very anxious situation for them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u530	Of course it's anxiogenic! We never said otherwise, but we just have to explain things to the children!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u531	I also think that what is currently broadcast on television is not the right thing to do.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u532	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u533	When the virus caught us by surprise last year, we agreed to give immense power to the President of the Republic, his Scientific Committee and his Government, to lead and lock up our lives for two months. We considered it to be a sacrifice to be made, and we agreed very broadly in this House. A year later, we no longer consent. At best, we will obey – that will be my case – because we are afraid of baton and fines, but it will no longer be a consent to authority and decisions that you make alone. We have heard our colleague's testimony about the ski resorts: the decision to close them for a year has not been discussed in this House. However, we could have heard that this closure was necessary for health reasons; Perhaps even the local elected representatives could have heard it. For the hotel and catering sector, has a discussion been linked, is a plan proposed? For students, where is the discussion about courses in amphitheatres taking place? It is Mr Blanquer who, under pressure, announces at the turn of an intervention that the amphitheaters will reopen for first-year students, in small groups, in a kind of permanent improvisation but without an overall plan, without a shared vision with the French, without a project for us this year. We are told that fifty-two variants of the virus are currently circulating: do we have to win the battle against all variants, or even have different vaccines, to regain some power over our lives and choose how we lead our common destiny? You're asking us to keep open a parenthesis that we don't know when it will close. You cannot guarantee that in June it will be behind us.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u534	Thank you, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u535	[[Mathilde Panot and Émilie Bonnivard applaud]] No: in June, you will ask us for a new extension!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u536	Mr Nicolas Dupont-Aignan has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u537	The nations that fight the epidemic best are those in which there is a link of trust between citizens and the Government. What is terrible is that, through this bill, in particular section 4, you are derising the trust that had already been very damaged by lies. Everyone can be wrong; You could have been wrong. But you can also recognize his mistakes.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u538	And on hydroxychloroquine, do you recognize yours?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u539	However, you did not want to acknowledge your errors with regard to masks and unpreparation of tests. You lied about hospital beds: before the second confinement, the President of the Republic mentioned 9,000 resuscitation beds; A few weeks later, the Prime Minister mentioned 5000 beds. There's no one there. You also lied to us about the issue of borders, ensuring that checks were carried out and that the results of the tests were checked. But all those who were able to travel found that this was not the case. What our fellow citizens no longer support, that you lock up...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u540	What they can't stand anymore is your lies!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u541	... it is that on the one hand you ask them to stay at home after eighteen hours, but on the other hand the borders of the country are open! People come in everywhere, carrying the famous variants. Even though we are under house arrest, you are not protecting the nation! This incoherence breaks trust. In the face of all these failures, you could ask yourself a few questions, ask yourself, even if, within your majority, some Members do not have in mind any remarks, proposals or corrections to propose – which I am convinced of. But no: you continue, without realizing that the French people can no longer. In doing so, you divide it, by constantly blaming those who complain – in mountain areas or in restaurants, for example – as you do with us: if we do not obey, it is that we are bad French and that we want dead people.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u542	Thank you, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u543	This type of speech, based on guilt, a dark period of our history has already known him...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u544	I have before me three identical amendments, Nos 20, 28 and 89, to delete Article 4. I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 20.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u545	The extension of the provisions relating to the creation of an information system for the sole purpose of combating the covid -19 epidemic raises questions, whereas by 1 April – you let us look forward to it, and it is to be hoped – most French people will already be vaccinated. The extension until 31 December of the retention of the data collected seems to me to be quite excessive. I have already had the opportunity to highlight the danger that such a provision may pose in the consideration of previous bills. This danger must be identified and the best way to do so is to maintain the date of April 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u546	Mrs Martine Wonner has the floor to support Amendment No. 28.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u547	Article 4 allows the implementation, always and again, of information systems dedicated to the epidemic until 31 December 2021. We had already opposed the creation of these files because they present many privacy risks. These systems raise not only issues of security, but also and above all ethics, and lay the foundations for a society of control and commodification that the French refuse. We know very well, even if I have heard you defend it several times, that there will be vaccination passports: the more you deny something, the more we know that it will eventually happen. I therefore propose, by adopting this amendment, to delete Article 4.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u548	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor to support Amendment No. 89.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u549	Minister, you said earlier that we were not making proposals. But with the trade unions, we are making proposals to rearm the French productive apparatus, in order to make it more effective in the production of vaccines. With the hospital trade unions, we have been making proposals for three years to repair the hospital and give it the means to take care of the inhabitants. Together with the Association des mayores de France and the Association des mayores rurales de France, we are making proposals for the management of the health crisis to be implemented in a differentiated manner, according to territorial realities. The curfew that I respect in the Ifs – 40 inhabitants, 19 per square kilometre – is the same as the curfew that applies in the heart of Lyon, Paris or Marseille. Together with local elected officials, doctors and practitioners on the ground, we are making proposals to get as close as possible to the most vulnerable audiences, with mobile intervention teams and vaccination centres, so that the vaccine doesn't forget anyone. How do you appreciate these proposals, how do you receive them? How do you plan to discuss these constructive proposals with us, not in order to get the Government to grips – it does not need us for that – but in order to be effective together and to demonstrate the usefulness of Parliament? This is the state of mind that has kept us alive since the beginning of the crisis. That is why I reacted badly, earlier, when the opposition was stigmatized: as you act, we would only be critical. No, we're proposing, we're taking responsibility in our territories, and we're able to demonstrate that we're thinking more about people than we do alone.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u550	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u551	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u552	As I have mentioned several times in our previous debates, I consider it necessary to maintain SIDEP information systems – a population screening information system – and Contact Covid because these tools are simply indispensable. We may not agree on the answers to the crisis, but it seems to me unjustifiable to give up the tools to monitor its evolution and to identify the sick. In addition, we have put in place numerous means of control, including the Monitoring and Liaison Committee, and the CNIL – the National Commission on Informatics and Freedoms – is also very vigilant. Therefore, the committee rejected all the amendments aimed at abolishing these information systems in the near future. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u553	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u554	Disadvantaged too.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u555	Mr Philippe Latomb has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u556	Everyone knows my commitment to the protection of personal data. The Mouvement Démocrate (MoDem) and Allied Democrats Group is very pleased that the provisions to extend the existence of SIDEP and Contact Covid are introduced in a legislative form, not by means of a decree issued by the Council of State. These two information systems are absolutely necessary for the longitudinal follow-up of the epidemic and the sick, which is why it seems appropriate to extend them until the end of the legal framework laid down in Article 1: we are therefore against Article 4. On the other hand, even though I have heard the rapporteur's opinion and, although I know that CNIL is very attached to the monitoring of these files, I would point out that their duration will be extended quite substantially: it is therefore necessary to ensure that they are robust enough to guarantee the pseudonymization of the data they contain and to prevent any attempt at hacking. Beyond the CNIL, the National Information Systems Security Agency (ANSSI) must also be regularly asked to verify that the system is robust enough to prevent data leaks. If these conditions are met, we are not opposed to an extension of SIDEP and Contact Covid until 31 December. In any case, we need to be very vigilant in order to avoid a controversy about these systems similar to that we have experienced with the health data platform Health Data Hub – HDH – which was hosting data on non-European clouds, with all the risks of data leaking abroad. The French are increasingly sensitive to this type of risk, which makes it all the more necessary for us to exercise extreme vigilance. I therefore ask you to confirm that the ANSSI will have control over this matter and that the data will be hosted on servers located in France or Europe.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u557	It's indispensable, indeed!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u558	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u559	Whether the treatment of the health crisis is done through curfew-type police measures or confinement, coupled with digital tracing, is logical. Minister, you have asked us to make proposals to you. I made you one, using the compulsory license to produce the vaccines.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u560	You don't have to!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u561	This would allow, rather than waiting for Pfizer or AstraZeneca to be able to produce massive doses through their small plants located in Europe, to use other plants present on French territory. Are you going, yes or no, to introduce the compulsory licensing system? Now we need to take a decision on this point to enable the production of vaccines to grow. If we wait for a French vaccine to be available, it will take another year, and if we wait for Pfizer to provide us with doses, we will cause vaccination to slow down rather than accelerate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u562	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u563	During this session, you have repeatedly said that you have consented to the first confinement. I would remind you that you did not vote for the first confinement, nor for the second, nor for curfew, nor for the state of emergency: in fact, your group has opposed all the health measures proposed to this assembly in order to protect the French. Perhaps you have the memory, but I have checked and confirmed that Mrs Panot had indicated that the FI group would vote against confinement. With regard to companies that are likely to produce doses of vaccine, if there was a need to use the ex officio licence, I would have proposed it without hesitation, as I did in a previous legislature for the production of a drug that was expected to be very expensive. The ex-officio license only makes sense when a laboratory argues about its intellectual property and says, "I'm the one that produces and that's none of your business. » However, that is not what the laboratories are saying at the moment. In fact, perhaps you do not know, Mr Ruffin, but in France there are three companies, namely Delpharm, Recipharm and Fareva, which are already producing vaccines on behalf of Moderna, Pfizer and CureVac laboratories to protect the French, European and global population. That's good news! Of course, production does not start on a tap of fingers: it takes between two and four months to prepare the chains and complete the fill and finish – to use a terrible anglicism – which is the longest stage of the production process; But it is still that these companies actually produce doses of vaccine in France. In addition, some laboratories – including Sanofi, which you mentioned – are in talks with third-party laboratories, whose vaccines, which are more advanced than their own, are already allowed: they are quite willing to produce these vaccines until theirs are also perfected. I would point out that what France is doing, most other European countries are doing too: this is the case in Belgium, Germany, Austria, Spain and Italy. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] We're not completely morons, Mr. Ruffin, and neither are companies... That is why, whenever a laboratory is able to produce vaccines, it does so: we all need to produce massively, and as quickly as possible, vaccines that we know can get us out of the mess – the word is weak – where we are. I confirm to you, we operate all the levers available in the territory. I recognize that it is important that we have a pharmaceutical production industry in France and Europe. We will strive to consolidate it over the coming months and years, and I have no doubt for a second that you will be with us to vote on the substantial budgets that will enable us to support an activity that creates some 100,000 direct jobs in our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u564	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-20-O1133.u565	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one hours: Continuation of the discussion of the bill extending the state of emergency health; Discussion of six bills authorizing the approval of international conventions and agreements under simplified review. The meeting is adjourned.
