ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u1	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the second part of the finance bill for 2022 (No. 4482, 4524).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u2	We are dealing with the examination of appropriations relating to the general and territorial administration of the State (No 4524, Volume III, Annex 3 ; No 4525, Volume I), Safety (No 4524, Volume III, Annexes 38 and 39; No 4601, Volume VIII; No 4525, Volumes VII and VIII) and to the special allocation account "Road Traffic and Parking Control" (No 4524, Volume III, Annex 38). Jennifer De Temmerman, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u3	[[Applause on several benches]] Let me begin by welcoming the presence in the fora of citizens of the 15th constituency of the Northern Department, and in particular Tom Bécue, who, during the first confinement of 2020, when he was only five years old, had the idea of creating a giant nurse named Camille, to celebrate our caregivers. Such a commitment, at such a young age, deserves at least to be hailed and applauded! As we look at the last finance bill in the legislature, I would also like to commend the work of the directors of the Finance Committee and, in particular, that of Raphaël Cazaux, who accompanied me in my mission. With €4.4 billion in appropriations in 2022, the budget of the General and Territorial Administration of the State (AGTE) mission increased by 4.5% in payment appropriations and by 5.4% in commitment authorisations compared to last year. It should be recalled that this mission comprises three programmes which finance the network of prefectures, the support functions of the central administration, as well as the organisation of elections and the financing of political parties. The holding of the presidential and legislative elections in April and June of this year partly explains the increase in the Mission's appropriations in this finance bill. With regard to the 354 State Territorial Administration programme, with a budget of 2.4 billion euros, i.e. half of the Mission's appropriations, I note a degree of stability in its budget and jobs after two years marked by a change in the budget model and by the reform of the territorial organisation of the State, both of which have led to large transfers. I note with satisfaction the fulfilment of the first commitment made by the Interministerial Committee on Public Transformation last July. It was "to put an end to the systematic downsizing of departmental services"; The year 2022 will indeed be a neutral year, without a downward pattern of jobs, which is appreciable. However, some of the previous declines should be revisited in order to strengthen the State's presence in the territories. The deterioration of the performance indicators also encourages this, as the average time taken to obtain identity documents almost doubled between 2020 and 2021 – they will remain high in 2022. During the Spring of the Evaluation, I denounced the lack of human resources in the centres of expertise and resources of titles (CERT) and the inadequacy of some of their computer tools. These difficulties also concern the services of prefectures for foreigners. I have therefore tabled an amendment aimed at strengthening their human resources. I also wish to draw the Government's attention to the policy of exchange of foreign driving permits. In the course of my work, I have noted the glaring lack of visibility of the territorial administration, in particular of the Nantes CERT, in the negotiation and implementation of new bilateral agreements whose implications for the administration, as well as for users, are hardly anticipated. Madam Minister responsible for citizenship, it is urgent that a comprehensive assessment be drawn up with a view to a possible overhaul of this policy. I now turn to the programme 232 Political life, budgetary support for the upcoming presidential and legislative elections. Its appropriations will increase by 12 per cent in 2022 compared to 2021, an increase which has already been recorded this year as a result of the double elections in the regional and departmental elections. After the breakdown of the flow of electoral propaganda during these elections, allow me to dwell for a moment on the measures taken by the Ministry of the Interior. With regard to the actual application, it could no longer be entrusted to private service providers and would be relegated to the prefectures and possibly to the communes by delegation. As this practice has unfortunately been lost over the years, I have expressed my concern to your services, Madam Deputy Minister, about its practical arrangements, especially since it will require a large number of agents to be mobilised. As for the transport, which has suffered the most serious failures in the regions in which Adrexo was the holder of the framework agreement, it will be the subject of a new market notified by the beginning of next year. In accordance with the rules of public order, this contract will be subject to competition. However, given the characteristics of the postal market and the elimination of Adrexo, everything suggests that La Poste will be chosen. I would like to draw your attention once again to the need to take into account temporal constraints and to promote a good organisation in order to avoid a new disappointment, whose impact would be terrible for our citizens' adherence to the democratic ideal. I conclude with programme 216 Conduct and control of internal policies, which serves as budgetary support for the central administration of the ministry, outside the police and gendarmerie. Finally, it has only one public policy, led by the Interministerial Fund for the Prevention of Crime (IFPD), which will increase its appropriations by 4 million, which I welcome after their decline in 2021. However, this increase of 6% in 2022 will mainly result from the harmonisation of social action measures for agents, as well as an increase in real estate expenditure.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u4	Please conclude, Madam Special Rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u5	In conclusion, like the Committee on Finance last week, I invite you to vote in favour of the appropriations of the General and Territorial Administration of the State mission, which provides essential tasks for all our citizens throughout the territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u6	I call Mr Romain Grau, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u7	In 2022, the Security Mission's appropriations will increase by more than €1.4 billion in commitment authorisations, an increase of 6.8% over 2021, to reach €22.7 billion. This budget confirms the efforts made to promote the security of the French since the beginning of the legislature. By 2022, after an uninterrupted five-year momentum, the Mission's appropriations will have increased by $2.9 billion, an increase of 14.5 per cent over the initial 2017 Finance Act. Based solely on police and gendarmerie appropriations, the increase is 2.6 billion, an increase of 13.7 per cent. Particular efforts will have been made in terms of staffing, with a recruitment plan whereby 6415 jobs will have been created under the 176 National Police programme and 2635 jobs under the 152 National Gendarmerie programme. All these efforts have been particularly intensified over the past two years under the leadership of the Government. The budget for 2022 marks, in particular, for the internal security forces, the beginning of the implementation of the measures announced by the President of the Republic at the end of the Beauvau de la sécurité, whose objective was to modernise the public security policy for the benefit of the population, the police and the gendarmes. For the police, a package of block measures is included in the 2022 finance bill for an amount of 15 million. In addition, there are new categorical measures not covered by the Beauvau de la sécurité for an amount of 1.75 million. Apart from Title 2, the 176 National Police programme obtains an additional 493.2 million commitment authorizations, which will benefit the operation, in particular training, mobile means, equipment, information systems and real estate. These appropriations will allow for the generalisation of the pediment cameras, the acceleration of vehicle renewal, the generalisation of the Neopol terminals and the continuation, as well as the deepening, of the door handles plan. For the national gendarmerie, the Beauvau category measures amount to EUR 13 million. Non-Title 2, $255.8 million in commitment authorities will improve training, protection and response capabilities, and the fleet of vehicles. I would like to point out that 20 million will be spent on routine maintenance and will improve the security of the barracks, while 70 million will contribute to the launch of major structural projects for the national gendarmerie in real estate, such as the Balma or Satory projects. Recruitment will continue beyond 2022. The President of the Republic has thus called for the presence of police officers and gendarmes on the public highway to be doubled in ten years. Training capacity will need to be strengthened as well as better planning for the replacement of equipment and maintenance of premises. The next law of programming for internal security will be an opportunity to put us in a long-term vision, to anticipate needs and to take into account the most practical realities and the most secure instruments to achieve the ambition that we have for our internal security forces and for the security of the French. In the area of human resources, we will also have to look at issues such as the retention of agents in the Paris region or the need to revalue the investigation process. I come to Program 207 Road Safety and Education. The year 2020, with its confinements and curfews, was particularly unusual: 2780 people lost their lives on the roads in France, 20.1% less than in 2019 – a result never achieved since 1925, when almost a hundred years ago, the number of vehicles in circulation was almost fifty times lower. As travel returns to normal today, the challenge is to achieve better results than in 2019. By the end of August last year, 1821 people had lost their lives on the roads in metropolitan France since the beginning of the year, 315 fewer deaths than in August 2019. The road safety policy is therefore effective and must be pursued. In 2022, funds for the 207 Road Safety and Education programme will increase by one third, mainly due to the acquisition of screening and verification kits for law enforcement officers engaged in the fight against the use of narcotics during roadside checks. I would like to point out that 13% of drivers in fatal traffic accidents are positive for narcotics. As for the traffic control and road parking special-purpose account, CAS also says on radars, its revenue is expected to be $1.5 billion by 2022, down 4.7 per cent. However, the appropriations for the 751 Road Safety Structures and Devices programme are progressing slightly, mainly to modernise automatic radars.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u8	Please conclude, Mr. Special Rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u9	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Colleagues, I invite you to adopt the appropriations from the National Police, National Gendarmerie and Road Safety and Education programmes, as well as from the road traffic and parking control trust account.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u10	Mr Brahim Hammouche, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u11	Before I get to the heart of the matter, I would like to stress the unique nature of the civil security policy, which is largely decentralised, which explains a budget programme with a low level compared to the other programmes of the Security Mission – 570 million in payment appropriations for the year 2022. It is the local authorities that provide the bulk of the effort, or 5 billion annually, to finance the departmental fire and rescue services (SDIS). While the State has a subsidiary role in the budget of this policy, it is a key player in the definition of its national strategy, in the acquisition and maintenance of civil security air assets and in the coordination of multiple actors – professional firefighters, volunteer firefighters, approved associations, relief services under the Ministry of Health, etc. The State also manages crises that are too large to be managed at the local level, such as floods, forest fires and other natural disasters. The Directorate-General for Civil Security and Crisis Management of the Ministry of the Interior – DGSCGC – whose representatives I have of course heard – is responsible for these various missions. All the people I heard said to me: Unfortunately, crises are becoming more and more frequent as a result of global warming. Forest fires are a sad illustration of this. The covid -l9 epidemic, on the other hand, has considerably weakened the accredited civil security associations, which have had much more work in the past year, but far less revenue, because they could not carry out their paid activities during confinements. In 2020, many associations had almost disappeared, but the Government had decided to grant them exceptional aid of 21 million, which had saved them. This grant was not renewed in 2021. I hope that the approved associations will be able to diversify their sources of funding and return to their pre-crisis balance. Another major issue concerns the urgent and necessary modernization of air assets for civil security. In 2020, the old generation of aircraft was shut down due to a lack of construction. The new generation is being delivered: we have already received a plane in March and a second one will arrive in a month, which represents a total cost of 80 million euros this year; A new aircraft will be delivered next year and a last in 2022. As a result of this investment effort, performance indicators related to forest fire control are constantly increasing. It is the modernization of the helicopter fleet that will certainly require the most investment in the years to come. Civil security is expected to have 38 helicopters to comply with its operational contract; Four helicopters have been lost in accidents in recent years. As part of the recovery plan, it was decided – and this is an excellent thing – to buy two helicopters, but two more will be missing. I would therefore like to warn you that these missing helicopters cause an oversolicitation of the existing aircraft, which wear out prematurely and are very expensive to maintain. In the medium term, we will therefore need to make an additional investment effort to reduce operating costs and improve our operational capabilities. I conclude by referring to a final issue that is more about foresight or the perspective of the future. The unified civil security information and command system, NexSIS 18-112, will finally be able to be deployed, its launch having been delayed by a year due to the health crisis. This is a true innovation, essential to the coordination, interoperability and operational effectiveness of civil security forces. Today, each fire and rescue department has its own information system, which poses problems of reliability and data security. Thanks to the new harmonized system, everything will be interoperable. This is a real progress, which will be implemented gradually and as a priority in the departments of Île-de-France, with a view to the Olympic Games of 2024. This will enable us to demonstrate to the rest of the world our know-how and bring to light our model of civil protection and security.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u12	I call Mr Raphaël Schellenberger, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u13	The mission of the General and Territorial Administration of the State comprises the appropriations allocated to the deconcentrated administrations of the Ministry of the Interior, to its supporting functions, as well as to the public subsidies it administers. It also shows the funding for political parties – this has been clarified – as well as the funds allocated for the organisation of elections. By 2022, the Mission's payment appropriations are expected to increase significantly by almost €190 million, an increase of 4.5%, to €4.4 billion. Expenditure is increasing on the mission's three programmes: the appropriations for the Territorial Administration of the State programme are increasing by 52 million euros, as a result of the increase in the number of staff; The political life programme includes an increase of 55 million euros, due to the cost of the presidential and legislative elections – the year 2021 also saw two elections but of a different nature; Finally, the appropriations for the programme Support for the management and control of internal policies are up by 85 million euros, due to an increase in expenditure on social action and real estate. The stabilization of our prefectures is certainly a good thing, as it follows several years of cuts. However, we should probably go further in order to restore room for manoeuvre and action to the territorial administration of the State – I am thinking in particular of the prefectures, who have long been undressed for the benefit of regional administrations, whose political leadership appears to be increasingly elusive and inefficient. On this issue depends the proximity and accessibility of our public services, and above all the effectiveness of public action. In this regard, I would like to point out that the number of staff dedicated to the monitoring of legality and the provision of advice to local and regional authorities has decreased sharply, from 2841 full-time equivalents worked in 2017 to 2063 planned for 2022. Thus, we realize that the foreseeable increase in staff will not be concentrated with the local authorities, whereas it is there, close to the ground, with elected representatives and local projects, that we need a state. I turn to the topic that I chose to study in particular in the context of the examination of this budget: the organization of the regional and departmental elections of 2021, in comparison with the presidential and legislative elections, which will take place in 2022. These are two particular years, allowing comparisons that seem relevant to me. The elections of 2021 were singular in several respects. Held in a context of a health crisis, the two elections were held on the same day and were postponed for three months, from March to June 2021; They resulted in a level of forbearance that had never been achieved. The cost of organising the last regional elections was estimated at 170 million euros, and of the departmental elections at 148 million euros. The additional costs caused by the health crisis amounted to about €35 million, or almost 10% of the initial forecast. The State has ensured the supply of health protection equipment and has undertaken to reimburse the walls of plexiglas purchased by the mayors, while the country ceilings have been increased by 20 per cent. On the whole, such an additional cost does not seem disproportionate to me, especially since, despite the increase in the ceilings, expenditure has increased by only 10%. On the other hand, serious dysfunctions were observed in the distribution of electoral propaganda. I worked on this with my colleague Jean-Michel Mis and a few days ago we submitted a report to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure in which we make several proposals. In considering the appropriations in committee, we have insisted on the prudence that must be exercised, Madam Deputy Minister, in the process of re-internalising electoral propaganda. I think that what is in the pipes – or what was in the pipes until then – is a real gas plant, even more so than what has been imagined regarding the competition of distribution. Be careful! The prefectures have been somewhat undressed with regard to the organization of elections; They are not, for the most part, able to digest the re-internalization of the fold. [[Jennifer De Temmerman, Special Rapporteur, applauds]] Madam Deputy Minister, it is on these points that I would like to hear from you, calling on you to exercise caution during this transition process.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u14	Mr Xavier Batut, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on National Defence and the Armed Forces, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u15	On 14 September last, in Roubaix, the President of the Republic put an end to eight months of reflection and exchanges that took place within the framework of the Beauvau de la sécurité. Concrete translation of these exchanges, the main feature of the draft budget of the gendarmerie for 2022 is the increase, excluding staff costs, of the appropriations of the 152 Gendarmerie national programme of 295 million euros in commitment authorizations and 232 million euros in payment appropriations, which represents a major effort by the state budget towards the gendarmerie forces. These additional appropriations should be used to finance the modernization of the gendarmerie's telecommunications facilities, to encourage the increase in the competence of gendarmes and to improve the conditions for their presence on the ground. I welcome this increase in funding for our gendarmerie forces, which work night and day on 96 per cent of the national territory to ensure the security of the French. Since last year, the effort has also been reinforced by funding from the stimulus plan for the renewal of our gendarmes' vehicles and barracks. I believe that these budgetary efforts should be sustained within the framework of the future law of orientation and programming for the performance of internal security (LOPPSI), announced by the President of the Republic. With regard to real estate investment, I welcome the fact that the Beauvau de la sécurité has increased the appropriations to EUR 183 million in commitment authorisations and to EUR 113 million in payment appropriations next year. I believe that these appropriations should be sanctified in the future LOPPSI. We should even go further and fill this budget item with EUR 300 million per year. If we want the gendarmerie's housing stock to become viable again and to avoid its irreversible deterioration, heavy and continuous investments are indeed necessary. I have tabled an appeal amendment to that effect. With regard to staff-related expenditure, I would like to draw your attention to the need to include in the finance law the appropriations necessary for the expansion of the operational reserve. The President of the Republic has announced that the number of reservists, these "last-kilometre gendarmes", will increase from 30,000 to 50,000 by 2025. I have tabled two amendments on this subject. Moreover, as I said last year, it is imperative to redefine the scope of the reserve of budgetary appropriations. Currently, the reserve rate applied by the Ministry of Economy and Finance is 4%, excluding staff costs. This has an effect on the cost of maintenance of vehicles and barracks. A reduced reserve rate of 0.5 per cent is already being applied, including excluding staff costs, to certain particularly constrained programmes, in particular Assistance for Access to Housing, Disability and Dependence and Social Inclusion and Protection of Persons. Since the gendarmerie budget is also very constrained, I would recommend that programme 152 should apply a reserve rate of 0.5 per cent instead of the 4 per cent in force. Secondly, I believe that the staff of the national gendarmerie should be increased, as well as the resources associated with such an increase, at the same rate as the population growth observed in its area of competence. I would point out that demographic growth, which is structurally greater in the gendarmerie area, has further increased in a cyclical manner in peri-urban and rural areas, following successive confinements. Finally, it seems to me necessary to give the company commanders budgetary room for manoeuvre. I have therefore tabled an amendment to create an operating allocation for this level of command. I now turn to the theme of my report: "Militarity". Without its military status, the gendarmerie would cease to exist, and it would disappear with it its territorial mesh. However, it is the last public service in some territories. This military model, ladies and gentlemen, seems absolutely necessary to me; I'll say it here in front of you and you'll tell me it's obvious. Yet – we have already talked about this on several occasions – it would be difficult if we had to start counting the hours of call of our gendarmes – as well as those of our firefighters, moreover – as the Court of Justice of the European Union seems to suggest in a judgment delivered on 15 July. Finally, still in relation to militarity, I would like to return to one last subject, and not the least: that of pooling resources in the Ministry of the Interior. It can be understood that, in the interests of good management and budgetary savings, the Ministry wishes to pool many functions between the two internal security forces; This includes procurement, logistics, digital and automotive support. But mutualizations should not lead to the loss of autonomy, efficiency and, above all, resilience of what they may make a financial gain. The pooling of resources must not have the effect of pulling the gendarmerie down. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Colleagues, in referring to the militarity in my report, I also wanted, once again, to pay a strong tribute to our 130,000 active and reserve gendarmes who, whatever the risks and circumstances, act day and night to ensure the safety of the French.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u16	Mr Stéphane Mazars, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u17	The Budget Bill for 2022 reflects the commitment of the Government and the majority to security. It is part of the trajectory that began in 2017, whereby police and gendarmerie appropriations will have benefited from an overall increase of almost 3 billion euros, representing an increase of about 14% over the five-year period. More than EUR 1 billion will be committed by the State as of next year, integrating the allocations provided for in the recovery plan. It is therefore quite naturally that the Committee on Laws, of which I am draftsman, voted favourably on the appropriations for the Security Mission. This evolution draws all the consequences of the Beauvau of security, which has made it possible to highlight the dedication of all the forces of law and order, whose missions at the service of our compatriots lie at the heart of our republican pact. This moment of exchanges and meetings has also provided an opportunity to objectify the many difficulties these men and women face on a daily basis. Let me pay tribute here to the work done by the 250,000 policemen and gendarmes, our police force, "established for the benefit of all", according to the 1789 declaration of human and citizen rights. This budgetary effort is available at the human, material and real estate levels. At the human level, 761 police officers and 185 additional gendarmes were recruited as part of the 10000 job creation plan by 2022. The increase in the number of troops contributes to the strengthening of the presence of the blues on the ground and to the direct contact of the population. At the material level, the budgetary effort has allowed the renewal of the equipment at the disposal of the law enforcement agencies, whether it is their intervention vehicles, the technological tools that they can or will soon be able to use in order to carry out their task, such as stone-cameras, on-board cameras and drones, or the renovation of information and communication systems, a vital task. At the real estate level, the implementation of large-scale projects makes it possible to continue the rehabilitation of police stations and barracks in order to improve the working conditions of our agents in practice. Of course, these budgetary challenges are combined with the reforms initiated, discussed and adopted by Parliament since 2017. This far-reaching legislative work, of which the Criminal Responsibility and Internal Security Bill is one of the last major steps, will continue as soon as next year, I hope, through the examination of a major internal security policy and programming bill. As draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Laws, I have chosen to devote my speech to the work of the specialized intervention forces of the police and gendarmerie. The action of the RAID, the research and intervention brigade of the prefecture of police of Paris (BRI-PP) and the intervention group of the national gendarmerie (GIGN) is mediated during the crises of national scale – the current events of the trials of 13 November 2015 remind us – but relatively unknown the rest of the time. I had the privilege of visiting each of these units in their premises, in Bièvres for the RAID, in the police prefecture of Paris for the BRI-PP and in Versailles for the GIGN. Present throughout metropolitan and ultramarine territory, these three elite units carry out counter-terrorism and anti-organized crime missions in order to prevent or end attacks or hostage-taking. According to the national intervention scheme set up in April 2016, the RAID, the BRI-PP and the GIGN must act following the mobilisation of the first and second level forces constituted by the so-called elementary and intermediate intervention forces responsible for ensuring the initial intervention as soon as possible. However, these intervention missions are in fact a minority of RAID, BIS-PP and GIGN activities. The bulk of their work extends to less spectacular tasks, such as legal aid or the protection of personalities. The success of their operations depends in particular on their ability to project, in view of the dangerous situations that these elite units are facing, which raises issues relating to the budgetary, human and technical means at their disposal. While I believe that their autonomy must be preserved, the deepening of their cooperation is part of the broader perspective of the constant strengthening of their effectiveness. I make several recommendations in order to achieve this objective, in the light of the exchanges that I have had on the ground with the officials, but also the members of these units. The extreme sensitivity and diversity of the missions of RAID, GIGN and BIS-PP imply extraordinary physical and moral qualities, whether it is to the test of hostage-takers, terrorists, or more daily forcible. This was recently the case in Lyon, where the GIGN arrested a cut-off man who had previously fired several shots at the gendarmes. I would like to pay tribute to our specialized intervention forces and to show them the sincere appreciation of national representation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u18	Mr Mansour Kamardine, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u19	Civil security plays a vital role in our country, as we are reminded of in every crisis we are going through. Men and women who have chosen to pursue careers are often on the front lines to protect our fellow citizens from the disasters that hit the territory, both in Hexagon and overseas. Of course, the budget for civil security will increase by 9.6 per cent in 2022 compared to previous years, or about 8 per cent if inflation prospects for next year are taken into account. Yet it stagnates over the entire legislature, despite the commitment of considerable investment expenses, long expected and which reveal the oldness of our equipment. The funds we are debating represent a small part of the total expenditure on civil security: the State finances about one third of this total, under this programme, other programmes in the general budget and through taxation transferred to the communities. It is the latter who make the greatest effort to finance, in particular, the departmental fire and rescue services, which are at the heart of civil security missions. As draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Laws, I would like to stress the preparation of civil security actors overseas in the face of the many natural risks that ultramarine communities face. Our territories are fragile in three ways: because of their remoteness from Hexagon; because of the high concentration of the population on the coast and, with the exception of Guyana, because of their insularity or even their multi-insularity. The natural risks to which they are subjected are numerous: earthquakes, volcanic eruptions, cyclones, flooding by marine submersion, forest fires, receding of the coast line, invasion of sargasse seaweeds, etc. They put to the test the civilian security personnel, to whom I want to pay a strong tribute, as we did in committee. During the hearings held to prepare this budget opinion, I was able to see that they were very professional. I regret, however, that the resources devoted to civil security overseas are not yet commensurate with the current challenges, but above all with the challenges ahead, because under the influence of climate change, certain natural events will be more frequent and more intense in the coming decades and require special preparation. The budget opinion adopts eleven recommendations aimed at enhancing the safety of the populations at risk and more broadly at improving the functioning of civil security in the overseas countries and territories. Let me stress a few of them: the first concerns the increase in the means of civil security overseas. A reflection is under way on this within the Ministry of the Interior, and I very much hope that it will lead to a reinforcement of its short-term resources to assist SDIS personnel, sometimes overburdened by increasing demands. Several recommendations relate to the role of observatories, which are essential for better understanding and anticipation of climate events. I believe it is necessary to set up such a full-function structure in Mayotte, as well as to strengthen the synergies between the staff of these structures and that of civil security. While the Interdepartmental Delegate for Major Overseas Risks has been removed, it is important to ensure that the missions assigned to him can be carried out by a similar structure, for example by the recently established mission to support public policies for the prevention of major risks in ultramarine territories. Prevention efforts must be made. It might be appropriate to generalize the "Japanese days" developed in Guadeloupe and to involve civil security personnel in the campaigns conducted by the scientists of the observatories, in order to make them aware of the natural risks and their manifestations. Other recommendations of the budget opinion concern the well-known fund for the prevention of major natural risks, known as the Barnier Fund, whose access arrangements remain too restrictive, as well as the plans for the prevention of natural risks – the PPR – which must be systematically developed and regularly updated. I have noted the generalization of satellite communication next year, and I would like to pay attention to this deployment, the interest of which was stressed by the Chairman and the Director of the SDIS in Mayotte. In particular, in the case of the one-hundred-and-first French department, if the risk of a major dramatic event is statistically low in the short term, there is nevertheless, and such an event would endanger the lives of many people. That is why I solemnly call for the creation without delay of an interdepartmental mission to integrate as soon as possible the emergence of the simo-volcanic phenomenon in the PPR and in the ORSEC plan (organisation of the civil security response). I am convinced that these recommendations, worked with the people interviewed and detailed in the budget opinion, will enable us to improve the daily lives of civil security personnel while preventing breaches of equality and to ensure better protection of the populations and essential services in the ultramarine territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u20	We will now hear the spokespersons of the groups. Mr Christophe Euzet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u21	I will be brief about the mission of the General and Territorial Administration of the State, on which much has already been said, in order to rejoice with the Group to act together on the overall increase in the appropriations allocated to it, whether in respect of the exercise of public freedoms – hence the actions to organize the elections – but also in respect of the continuity of the State or the local decline of public policies of the interior and territorial administration of the State. I welcome the integration measures for persons with disabilities, the promotion of secularism, but also the retention of staff in prefecture and sub-prefecture, at a time when the question of the state's human presence among citizens is of particular importance. The Security Mission will deal with most of my remarks. We can only welcome the substantial increase in the amount of EUR 1 billion allocated, which shows that the Government has taken into account the current security problem for our citizens. Whether it is the gendarmerie, the police, civil security, or road safety and education, we can see the first effects of the Beauvau of safety. A 2030 security project, pending the adoption of the future LOPSI, sets the goal of doubling the number of people on the ground in ten years' time. We can only satisfy ourselves. I could gravitate the various points of satisfaction: a significant increase in the appropriations allocated to digitisation, the development of equipment and real estate investments; the implementation of the "10000 young people" plan relating to the gendarmerie and the police; and the strengthening of the DGSI, the Directorate-General for Internal Security, and territorial intelligence. We have not yet talked about the increase in funding for social actions, particularly in the area of housing, the mobilisation of means to combat suicide or the improvement of the training of peacekeepers, whose duration is increased to 24 months. But as is often said in this House, money does not do everything, the essential thing being rather the guiding thread, the ideological logic that guides spending. This logic manifests itself in a significant respect for what could be called republican demands: strengthening the community policing system, constantly seeking to improve transparency, optimising training which must lead to a reinforced example, obsessiveness of efficiency in order to better combat crime, to optimize the use of forces on the ground and to better territorialize the State's security action. It is then manifested by social requirements: increased and improved reception of victims, in particular through the Single Window; improved processing times for investigations to shed light and judge more quickly those who have committed a number of harms. Finally, the technical requirements relating to the present time have already been recalled: adaptation to new technologies – including the means dedicated to improving the fight against cybercrime – and the new expertise, which we will discuss again by referring to the appropriations devoted to civil security. This is how the security of tomorrow is built. In the view of the Group of the European People's Party, the situation is improving in this area, always in accordance with our republican and organisational principles, but also with our fundamental freedoms, for which we are extremely vigilant. I would like to point out, Madam Deputy Minister, that our colleague Alexandra Louis will present an appeal amendment to expand the use of work of general interest – TIG. In any event, we will be happy to vote for the appropriations for these missions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u22	Mr Christophe Naegelen has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u23	First of all, it seems to me important to welcome the evolution of the appropriations of the Security Mission, an increase not only necessary but also saving, as the situation of our police and gendarmerie forces is currently difficult. Anyone who claims otherwise would clearly be in bad faith. However, we need to reflect more broadly, in particular on the adequacy of this budget with the many reforms voted for this year. We have adopted a lot of texts – the media have largely echoed them – which will require even more work from our internal security forces, police and gendarmerie. However, they are already understaffed. As you know, when we talk to the national police and go to the field, to the police stations, we all have the same speech: "We are understaffed. But we give them additional missions! It is important to take this situation into account and, above all, to put an end to all the obsolete work they have to do, to all this "administrationocracy", that is to say to all the administrative tasks which they have to do but which, in essence, do not fall within their core business. I am thinking, among other things, of the issue of power of attorney: the prefectures should be given more resources to deal with it. In addition, some overtime has not yet been paid, although an effort – which should also be welcomed – has been made in this direction in recent years. These sums must be paid as soon as possible. Overtime is, as you know, even more frequent on weekends, and we hope that demonstrations of yellow vests – or of another type – will not be held soon if we do not want to see an increase in the overtime credit. If the unwarranted stains were removed, it would also be possible to offer more hours of training to our police officers and gendarmes. However, these would be necessary on certain issues, such as violence against women, a subject which I know is of particular interest to you, Madam Minister Delegate. In this regard, you have announced in committee that you have been experimenting with a mechanism for collecting complaints from others. To date, however, we do not know in which territories it will take place.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u24	Oh, yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u25	It is important that the Overseas Territories participate. My colleagues Philippe Dunoyer and Philippe Gomès would like to remind you of the special situation of New Caledonia in this area. Why would this territory not accept the experimentation of such a device? With regard to civil security, the proposal for a law on the promotion of volunteerism for firefighters, submitted by Fabien Matras, arouses high expectations. While the text of the Joint Joint Committee will be discussed by our Assembly in three weeks' time, we hope that the budget will be up to date. We are very concerned about the lack of means to compensate employers of volunteer firefighters – we will also be presenting an amendment on this issue. With regard to the General and Territorial Administration mission of the State, we hope that the Government has learned from the shortcomings observed in the regional and departmental elections and that the forthcoming elections will take place in better conditions. The health crisis is not behind us, we must be aware of it. On the other hand, our group considers documentary fraud to be an important problem. The commission of inquiry established on this subject had demonstrated the extent of the phenomenon. However, the rate of documentary fraud detected by prefectures is still very low. The matter must be dealt with quickly. After drawing your attention to these various issues of concern, I would like to welcome once again the increase in the appropriations for these missions and I announce that the IDU and independent group will vote for them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u26	Mr Jean-Michel Clément has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u27	[[Smile]] We met this afternoon to answer a question: at the end of this quinquennium, did the state have a more efficient Ministry of the Interior and more present in the territories? I have five minutes to try and answer – five minutes for two missions and one special account that totals 27.53 billion euros, or 92 million per second. I will go straight to the point: the Libertés et territoire group welcomes the unwavering commitment of all departmental officials, but cannot show the same support for the broad directions taken in recent years. I will start with the mission of General and Territorial Administration of the State. Our colleague special rapporteur, Jennifer De Temmerman, has rightly recalled the lack of resources for the centres of expertise and resources and the weaknesses of the new generation Prefectures plan. These flaws only increase the distance between citizens and deconcentrated administrations. The means dedicated to prefectures to deal with migration issues, which are chronically inadequate, also lead to major delays emboldening the entire system. I also want to stress the deplorable organisation of the elections in 2021 – the term "disorganization" would be even more appropriate. Apart from the responsibility of Adrexo, our group regrets the Ministry's lack of response. We remember several meetings of the Parliamentary Liaison Committee at which malfunctions were largely minimized, almost denied. Yet they were massive. Unacceptable referral errors have sometimes led our fellow citizens to receive incomplete envelopes from the wrong constituency or even no envelope at all. I am still waiting, for my part, to receive the electoral propaganda of the last departmental and regional elections – perhaps I have to wait a little longer. After this fiasco, there were no other choices but to internalise the filing again and terminate the contract with Adrexo. However, there are still new concerns about the new agreement to be concluded for the period 2022-2024. To sum up, the Ministry of the Interior has seen its presence in the territories diminish while the link with the citizens has become so much more so. I turn to the issue of security, which saturates the political space and the government agenda. An impressive number of security laws have been submitted to Parliament since 2017. Many were more affected by signage, with super-fetational measures or measures to tighten penalties, while the improvement of the working conditions of the security forces was expected. In this regard, the Beauvau de la sécurité and your programming bill are more like pre-election reflections than concrete proposals that are applicable before the end of this quinquennium. With the budget for 2022 of this mission, we finally come to the concrete, with of course good and at least good. First of all, we wish to express our satisfaction: the increase in the appropriations of the Security Mission is largely dedicated to the improvement of the material means. We had denounced the deplorable working conditions of the security forces, whose equipment was defective, vehicles out of age and some police stations that were almost unsanitary. However, the development of drones for the purpose of monitoring the population is highly problematic because of its privacy impact. We have repeatedly alerted you to this issue, but neither the citizen arrests nor the Constitutional Council's censorship of the relevant provisions of the Comprehensive Security Act seem to stop you. The measure to offer free train tickets to off-duty but armed police disturbs us. It could be dangerous, prompting police officers who do not wish to have their weapon out of service to take it for free. It also gradually leads police officers to perform their duties 24 hours a day without being paid. Also demagogic in our eyes, just a few months from the elections, she opens a box of Pandora. Other professions, such as caregivers, could also legitimately benefit by getting on a train with their white blouse – why not? If it was a question of combating insecurity, it would have been more appropriate to strengthen the police presence in transport over their working hours. Finally, we are opposed to the choice of all-security in the fight against drug trafficking. France has one of the most restrictive policies...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u28	One of the most repressive!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u29	... while being Europe's first consumer country. Maybe it's time to think about this paradox. A first assessment of the lump sum fine for drug use drawn up by the law enforcement agencies shows that the deal points are still there and that it is very easy for people to circumvent the penalty. How long will you be stubborn and deny the evidence? When will you end with outdated postures on the subject? [[Jennifer De Temmerman, Special Rapporteur, applauds]] Ultimately, if we vote for the appropriations of the General and Territorial Administration of the State mission, the many reservations we have expressed will lead us not to vote for those of the Security Mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u30	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u31	Like previous speakers, I will try to perform a miracle by speaking of two large budgetary missions in such a time. I will start with the mission of the General and Territorial Administration of the State, that is, the management of our prefectures and sub-prefectures. If I can't get into the details, I won't be very long. I would like to say that I have had little taste of the argument of the Minister of the Interior in the Committee on Laws. He explained to us that, since the numbers were stable in the prefecture, everything was fine. However, we are well aware that the stabilization of the workforce is the result of mutual reforms at the level of the general secretariats and of a territorial reorganization of the administration of the State and its deconcentrated services and that, if the overall situation of the deconcentrated administrations is observed, the number of civil servants is decreasing. The minister's remarks therefore feel a little shambles. The desire, expressed by the previous Minister of the Interior, Christophe Castaner, to once again consider the departmental level as the most important in our country was nevertheless a political objective assumed – following the mobilization of the yellow vests which demanded more public services of proximity. Today it is no longer at all a question since we are still at the stage of France Services houses, trying to find the way, through different systems of mutualisation, in particular with the private sector or with other public companies, to offer a common reception because the staff of the State – we are told – are not the height of the stakes. I wanted to denounce this situation and to explain that there is a need for more officials in the deconcentrated administrations because they are very useful to our fellow citizens. We saw well that the choice of the all-digital had pitfalls. I often recall that in Seine-Saint-Denis – but this problem also exists elsewhere – the making of appointments in prefecture or in sub-prefecture for foreigners continues to mingle on the Internet. It is indeed possible today to resell online his appointment to obtain a residence permit. Such a practice is an infamy not only for State services but also for national representation. I don't know how long we can continue to accept it. In order to prolong the debates which took place during the examination of the so-called separatism law – as many have called it – I would like to remind you that no less than 1192 full-time equivalents are paid by the State which, under the Alsace-Moselle agreement, finances the cults and pays their representatives.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u32	Yes! They ensure an excellent interreligious dialogue in Alsace-Moselle! It's particularly effective to ease tensions!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u33	These 1192 full-time equivalents would be more useful within the prefectures and sub-prefectures network. That's where we'd need it. By the way, secularism must not stop at the gates of Alsace-Moselle. I come to the issue of civil security. Attention, we have already alerted you in committee about the prevention of risks, including fire. As a result of climate change, drought is becoming more and more pronounced in the country's forested massifs, so that the risk of fire is going to crescendo, as elsewhere in Europe and the world. Yet the budget does not follow. It is even declining for the delaying product, while anticipation and planning are needed. Climate change is there, it would be good to care about it and therefore to predict rather than to suffer. I conclude by addressing security issues, particularly those related to the police, and by focusing on training. You have little or no recruitment of the 10,000 announced police officers and gendarmes, under very chaotic conditions, by reducing the duration of the training to eight months and significantly lowering the level of recruitment by competition. You now propose to restore the training period to twelve months. This decision results in an increase in the appropriations dedicated to training – a much too small increase in terms of the overall expenditure of the Ministry of the Interior, but which has the merit of existing. On the other hand, you are not planning any plans to build national police schools. Where do you intend to accommodate the people you claim to want to train longer? Police schools are already full of cracks! The question is all the more important as you include training for future reservists in your budget objectives – as you plan to create an operational reserve. In fact, I am generally in favour of it – even if we would proceed in a substantially different way from yours – but this requires initial training! Where are you going to put those students? The budget document before us provides only for operating expenditure and does not contain any reply on this point. [[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM and Dem groups]] In fact, at the turn of the chapter on training, we learn that one of the stakes is to duplicate the brigades of repression of motorized violent action (BRAV-M) – you know, the armed types up to the teeth that travel by motorcycle to type the demonstrators – in all the departmental directorates of public security (DDSP) of France! Personally, I am radically opposed to the existence of these units, and even more so to their multiplication throughout the country, particularly in Lille: I do not want to see this type of brigades generalizing, whose mode of action, degrading for France, does not correspond to the spirit of what is supposed to be our doctrine of maintaining order, which consists, according to the Government itself, of not going to contact. By grace, stop developing the BRAV-M! In fact, I would appreciate it if we were done with the policy of the figure, because I am so tired of listening to the minister of the interior giving figures every month that reflect only the activity of his ministry, thus suggesting that there is an anxious climate in France.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u34	You can't tell anything, Mr. Bernalicis!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u35	This anxiety climate, it is you who create it to a large extent. I hope we can do without your services as early as April 2022!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u36	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u37	The review of the Security Mission's programmes is an opportunity for us to take note, as last year, of the increase in the budgets of the National Police and the Gendarmerie. The last five-year budget, however, is part of a particular context, following the closure of the Beauvau President of the Republic of Security and the announcement of a major law of direction and programming for internal security. In his speech in Roubaix, the Head of State stressed the need to strengthen the presence of the police and gendarmerie forces on the public road, without however engaging in a recruitment policy: the executive now places less emphasis on the increase of staff than on the review of working hours, working hours and mobility, shorter criminal procedures, the use of new technologies, or the improvement of training. However, all the promised developments remain for the time being cosmetic. The issue of staffing has not been resolved by recruitment policy in recent years. Of course, it has made it possible to catch up with the situation of previous shortages. Two pitfalls remain, however: the massive use of reservists, which highlights the inadequacy of the effort made, and the extent of territorial disparities in the distribution of staff. The draft finance bill provides for an increase in the operational reserve of the gendarmerie, which is expected to have 50,000 reservists in 2024. But the security forces should not rely on reservists or even deputy gendarmes, as is currently the case in the gendarmerie surveillance and intervention platoons (PSIGs), to the detriment of professional forces. We also question the quality of the training provided to reservists and the means available to them, knowing that they will be able to carry a weapon during certain interventions. You are also planning to extend the training of police officers and gendarmes by four months, starting next year. Given that a person who has been awarded a peacekeeper's examination is already waiting for up to a year and a half before entering a police school, we fear that this congestion will worsen. The draft budget does not provide for the creation of new training structures. Finally, and above all, the Minister of the Interior, listening to it, does not consider any more than the President of the Republic to make a profound change in the tasks of the police. Yet you cannot ignore the erosion of the confidence of our fellow citizens in the actors and actors of public peace. This erosion is the result of a doctrine of law and order that creates risks of excessive use of force, but also of the feeling of a lack of responsiveness of services when it comes to local intervention or the care of victims. It is the whole problem of supervising an overstretched, disoriented and ill-considered police force that is struggling to find ways to respond to a growing demand for security. We will not respond to these difficulties simply by deploying new technologies or by renovating equipment, however useful they may be: we must build a police and a gendarmerie which feel increasingly invested in a public service mission and whose action is not only directed towards the security of the State, but also at the service of the population. It is therefore necessary to reassure police officers and gendarmes of the social utility of their daily tasks and to recreate, in particular for police officers, an indispensable bond of trust with the population. Improvement of material working conditions is necessary. I am thinking in particular of the equipment that was missed by the officers of the company of Ambert during the terrible tragedy of Saint-Just: night vision glasses, protective shields, or transmission equipment in the white zone. But the material endowments, although indispensable, will not suffice to guarantee the improvement of the conditions for the exercise of the police and gendarmerie trades, which have deteriorated as the reforms were carried out, due to the imprecision of the missions, the hierarchical burdens, an overload of work, sometimes a sense of inutility...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u38	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u39	... and a loss of sense, which are the cause of terrible suffering: 24% of police officers and gendarmes claim to be confronted with suicidal thoughts. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] In the absence of any indication in your draft budget of the intention to take on board the need for a profound reform of the use of the public force in order to strengthen the public service and to improve the working conditions of the actors and actors of the public peace, the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left will vote against these appropriations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u40	That's too bad!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u41	Mr Remy Rebeyrotte has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u42	The four programmes of the Security Mission are still progressing, in 2022, by more than 4%, towards a total of 22 billion euros, taking into account the contribution of 191 million euros entered in the Recovery Plan mission to modernise the equipment and the endowments after the Beauvau de la sécurité. The plan to create 10,000 police and gendarmerie jobs launched in 2017 is ongoing. Since 2020, the police have received an additional €27 million to compensate for overtime and the firefighters have seen the fire premium increased by almost €100 net. In 2022, the means of combating drug trafficking – notably through the development of canine units – against irregular immigration or violence against women and the protection of cyberspace will be further significantly strengthened, as will the protection of personnel, thanks to the generalization of pedonic cameras. I would like to take this opportunity to welcome Parliament's recent contributions on these issues, in particular the work of Jean-Michel Fauvergue and Alice Thourot in favour of the establishment of a security continuum, or that of Fabien Matras in the field of civil security. Together with the Deputy Minister and the Minister of the Interior, they defended landmark legislative proposals. [[Mr. Jean Terlier applauds]] There is also an opportunity for road safety, as evidenced by the considerable increase in the number of drug testing kits. Let us recall here that the point permit, used in more than 20 European countries, has helped to reduce accidents, particularly serious and fatal accidents. Other European countries are also thinking about its adoption. Personally, I have been pleading for several years now to impose a simple fine for overtaking less than 10 kilometres per hour, in order to ensure greater fairness and to better distinguish between faults committed according to their seriousness. Adapt the device, yes; give it up, certainly not! The general and territorial action mission of the State also recorded an increase of 4.5%, reaching €4.4 billion. I am pleased that the Prime Minister has chosen to "rearm" the network of prefectures and sub-prefectures, which combines proximity and efficiency, while strengthening the support functions, especially digital ones, in breach of the policy pursued under the previous mandates. The latter, too, will be better equipped, in line with the commitments made at the end of the Beauvau de la sécurité: the funds allocated to the fight against crime, to support devices for video protection, to the districts of republican reconquest or to the fight against separatism will progress strongly. [[Smile]] On the other hand, I stress once again the need to devote resources also to improving the reception of citizens in prefecture or sub-prefecture. The physical or telephone reception must be maintained and the support of the French in their efforts must not be limited to giving them an internet address starting with "www.https://" so that they can consult the service requested online. My grandparents thought "http" was a new amazing product! Finally, municipal, departmental and regional democratic life was able to express itself in 2020 and 2021, even under difficult conditions, despite an acute health crisis. I would like to thank all the actors who have allowed these elections to take place. In this regard, could you, Madam Minister Delegate, please provide an update on the website www.maprocuration.gouv.fr, which was created on this occasion? Everyone will understand that important funds will still be allocated to the Political Life program in 2022, since – as you may know – it will be a new election year, during which we will live on major national deadlines.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u43	All right?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u44	I'll confirm that.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u45	We've been waiting for them for a while!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u46	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] I cannot conclude without paying a sustained tribute to all those who, on the ground, embody the authority of the State on a daily basis for the greatest benefit of all our fellow citizens – prefects, sub-prefects, law enforcement and security forces, firefighters, not to mention the mayors who, sometimes forgotten, exercise part of the authority of the State. Let them all be thanked for their commitment to the common interest. I believe that they will be satisfied with the increase in the appropriations submitted for our analysis. The Group of the European People's Party will naturally vote in favour of the appropriations in question.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u47	Mrs Emmanuelle Anthoine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u48	After several years marked by heinous as well as appalling terrorist attacks, security is at the heart of the concerns of the French. The migration challenge, delinquency and incivilities of the daily life that have become unbearable call for strong responses from the public authorities. In order to effectively combat the insecurity that our fellow citizens are concerned with, we need means. That is the purpose of the appropriations we are looking at. Let me first of all note that the presidential promise to recruit an additional 10,000 police officers and gendarmes was only partially fulfilled. In fact, there are just over 8,500 additional posts in five years. Perhaps you will be tempted to challenge these figures, Madam Minister Delegate. However, these are the ones that the Minister of the Interior put forward to respond to Mrs Rabault last April. You also promised 10,000 additional police officers and gendarmes "on the ground." Thus, excluding senior officials, administrative and technical staff and State workers, only 7300 new posts were created. While we obviously welcome these recruitments into the internal security forces, we cannot but deplore their inadequacy. The need for security for the French is increasing, indeed, as violence increases in our country. The Ministry of the Interior's public statistics on insecurity and delinquency speak for themselves: in the first nine months of 2021, compared to the same period in 2017, homicides are up 13%, voluntary assaults by 31% and sexual violence by 83%! That is little to say that the record of your ministry in this matter is bad.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u49	You describe here an increase in reports!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u50	In this context, the recent increases in resources for our security forces appear to be essential. The decisions that follow the Beauvau de la sécurité are all the more welcome in this regard as they were long overdue. But one can only wonder about this sudden attention to those who work daily for our security, just a few months from a major electoral deadline. This effort for the internal security forces, let us not be mistaken, is far too late. The statistics that I recalled at the moment bear witness to the fact that it would have been necessary to act earlier to stop a worrying trend. We looked forward to a law of direction and programming for internal security, but it never came into discussion. The Minister of the Interior will present it in due course on the eve of the next election, but it will only be announcements that will have to be taken as such. Regarding the mission of the General and Territorial Administration of the State, I will begin with the question of the feminization of the prefectural body. There are barely more than 40 per cent of women in the prefectural sector, a ratio that just meets the legal threshold, and there are only 38 prefects out of 132 positions, or 28 per cent of women, with under-prefects accounting for only 35 per cent of their body members. We are still far from parity. And the Government has not made any extra-legal efforts to accelerate the feminization of the prefectoral. What about prefects without a territorial assignment? In recent years, they have accounted for 50 per cent of the prefectural population. This is a devious body that is supposed to represent the state in the territories. This pattern reflects a situation of detrimental overstaffing as the cost to the State is significant. It results from the appointments of relatives by successive heads of state... a practice that has not passed away with Emmanuel Macron.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u51	She didn't start with him either!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u52	The President, who claimed to embody the new world, appointed former Elysée advisers during the prefectural movement of 29 July 2020, such as Jean-Marie Girier, a key player in his presidential campaign.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u53	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u54	Let us then mention the issue of the titles by the prefectures: there is an increase in the delays in the investigation, especially for driving licences. The number of staff appears to be insufficient to ensure a rapid response to the administration. Computer tools for processing applications are also subject to particular instability, as noted in the annual performance project. There is no mention in your draft budget of how these shortcomings can be resolved. [[Raphaël Schellenberger, draftsman, applauded]] For all these reasons, the Group of the Republicans will be calling for the abstention of all these appropriations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u55	Mrs Isabelle Florennes has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u56	The Group of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats welcomes the considerable increase – almost 2 billion euros – in the budget of the Ministry of the Interior in the draft finance law for 2022. This is part of an unprecedented increase of €3.4 billion over the five fiscal years of the legislature, to which must be added credits from the France Recovery Plan. The appropriations for the four programmes of the Security Mission thus increase by EUR 1 billion: the aim is to continue to take account of the realities on the ground, to take urgent and concrete measures, but also to anticipate future developments. All this is in the context of the Beauvau de la sécurité, at which the President of the Republic recalled that security was the first of our freedoms. The policy in this area needs to be understood as a whole: since 2017, not only has the number of staff increased steadily, but it is also the case of material resources. This 2022 budget is marked by the continuity of a proactive action clearly displayed since the beginning of the legislature. Colleagues, far from me from the idea of making you a list at the Prévert of the various credits, but it seems to me important to say the things as they are: 500 million euros are foreseen for the implementation of the first measures of the Beauvau of security in addition to the appropriations already negotiated by the Ministry of the Interior, namely 44 million for training, 200 million for the renewal of mobile means, 78 million payment appropriations for construction and renovation of buildings and 114 million for strategic and digital projects. These funds will allow, among other things, the gendarmerie and the police to continue their great transformation – to the benefit of the security of all the French, but also of the forces themselves, which, on the ground, are being put to the test: two more days ago, several police officers were targeted by fire in the district of La Duchère in Lyon. Madam Minister Delegate, our group also fully supports your willingness to devote the necessary funds to the fight against domestic violence, by allowing, for example, the setting up of specific premises to ensure the reception of victims in the presence of a social worker and a psychologist, the collection of complaints outside the police station or the gendarmerie, or the continuation of the increase in the number of social workers, from 270 in 2017 to 404 today. I would also like to address the issue of motorized rodeos, for which you know my commitment and that of my group. What are the financial and human resources that this budget allocates to the fight against this scourge? I am thinking in particular of the ongoing reflection on the use of drones. Wild rodeos are dangerous for everyone; They generate violence, as the news recently showed, when the mayor of a commune of 340 inhabitants in Calvados was attacked while he opposed such a rodeo.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u57	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u58	The appropriations for civil security are also very important, since the programme is even allocated an additional EUR 54 million. Our group welcomes this policy, which is essential to protect our civil security system, the effectiveness of which is admirable. It is also necessary to define a legal framework appropriate to his tasks: this is in particular the subject of the bill by Mr Fabien Matras, with whom my colleague Vincent Bru has given particular attention. With regard to road safety and road education, the reduction in the number of deaths on roads should not be a pretext for a relaxation of our efforts, as this is mainly due to containment and traffic restrictions. Before concluding, I would like to say a word about the territorial and general administration mission of the State, which is also experiencing a significant increase in appropriations, of the order of 5%, to reach EUR 4.4 billion. This increase is intended in particular to support the network of prefectures and sub-prefectures, which has done remarkable work during the health crisis, but also in managing the exit from the crisis, in terms of economic and territorial support, thanks in particular to the recovery plan. We welcome the absence of the abolition of staff and the strengthening of the "foreigner" service in some prefectures, which was necessary. Finally, we hope that this budget will contribute to the smooth running of the next election deadlines, and that it will allow the necessary modernisation of the voting arrangements which our group would like to see. [[Applause on several benches of the Dem group and on the benches of the LaREM group]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, our group will vote in favour of the appropriations for these missions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u59	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u60	In the preamble, I note a slight increase in the appropriations allocated to the General and Territorial Administration of the State mission, whose budget increases by about 5 per cent compared with 2021; We regret, however, that the share devoted to the territorial administration of the State decreases by 5%. I will concentrate on this mission, bearing in mind that my colleague Marietta Karamanli will refer in particular to the Security Mission when considering the amendments. I will make three observations. First, ensuring the presence and continuity of the State throughout the territory of the Republic is an essential objective of the mission, for which we must make a constant and amplified effort. That is why the Socialist and Related Group will not vote against this budget. The project to pool the management of State functions and resources is not new; It takes shape here with the creation of the joint departmental secretariats-general, supposed to put an end to the systematic downsizing of staff. The latter are thus stabilized for the second consecutive year, after the elimination of 1300 jobs between 2016 and 2018. Such a sanctuarization was essential to the extent that the State services in the department are at the limit of the collapse. The State is not sufficiently present in our territories: the feeling about it is very strong. There is a real difficulty in gaining access to prefectures and sub-prefectures, which concerns everyone, not just foreigners. The France services houses, whose creation we welcome, are not there to perform the regal functions of proximity devolved to the sub-prefectures. To justify the reduction of the means of reception in the sub-prefectures by the absence of the public, since the titles are now dematerialized, is to ignore the reality of the ground and the effects of the digital divide. The horrors of dematerialization put, for example, the purchasers of a car in implausible situations. The grids of these buildings are now closed, for lack of staff, while the republican motto Freedom, equality, fraternity that adorns their pediment nevertheless invites to the citizen's welcome. This leads many of our fellow citizens to give up their efforts and to the strong sense of relegation and insecurity felt in our countryside. The office of the presenter is ultimately the responsibility of the communes, but its staff cannot cope with it and does not have the competence to hear all requests. I am not suing the Government for this situation which it inherited; However, we must not just see this legacy but, on the contrary, work to improve the situation. Strengthening State services in our campaigns is also technically essential: why not transfer some of the public finance services to prefectures and sub-prefectures in order to form large state service houses? We're trying to work there in my constituency. My second observation concerns the modernization of public action through digitisation. This is obvious, but it cannot be achieved without taking into account the digital divide and the need to support administrative procedures carried out in the face-to-face. I recall that 27% of French people do not have access to the Internet and 33% are uncomfortable with this tool. In a recent opinion, the Defender of Rights pointed out the lack of information and support for users and the tendency of prefectural services to direct them to private providers to carry out their tasks. Only a face-to-face service can guarantee the equality of all before the public service. The modernization of public action must leave no one on the dock. [[Jennifer De Temmerman, Special Rapporteur, and André Chassaigne applaud]] Third observation: in 15 years, the gendarmerie area has 2000 full-time equivalents less and 2 million more inhabitants. Urban migration is now a reality. The gendarmerie is now contributing to the grid of the territory: where, until yesterday, we were talking about regrouping, we are now talking about the maintenance of the brigades. I have been fighting this for several years, and I therefore thank the ministry for leading this policy of proximity. An efficiency policy must now be added: the projects announced must not take ten years to complete; the creation of land reserves must be made possible; It is necessary to use systems other than rental, which leads the State, by the price of the leases alone, to pay three times the cost of a construction.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u61	The Deputy Minister for Citizenship has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u62	It is a pleasure and an honour for me to be with you to present the budget of the Ministry of the Interior. I would like to begin by asking you to excuse the Minister of the Interior, Gérald Darmanin, whom I represent: he is held by other obligations. This budget consists of three missions: the General and Territorial Administration of the State mission, the Security Mission to which the Special Assignment Account for Traffic Control and Road Parking is attached, and the Immigration, Asylum and Integration Mission. As we did with the Minister of the Interior a few days ago before the Law Committee, I shall begin by welcoming that, in accordance with the wishes of the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister, the budget of the Ministry of the Interior is, as a whole, experiencing an exceptional increase in its appropriations of EUR 1.5 billion. With these new resources, the budget of the Ministry of the Interior has increased by 3.5 billion euros since the beginning of the quinquennium. This historic budgetary effort must of course be embodied in results on the ground, for the benefit of the French, and it must be visible to the agents of the ministry. As a first step, it is my responsibility to present to you the missions General and Territorial Administration of the State and Security. The Immigration, Asylum and Integration Mission will be considered at a later stage. The AGTE mission's appropriations this year increased by EUR 351 million, including the recovery plan. This mission is fundamental for at least three reasons. First of all, it includes the budget of the network of prefectures and sub-prefectures that are doing remarkable work in this particular period of health crisis. It then includes the department's headquarters appropriations, which are essential to support and support the operational activities of our forces. It also houses funds for the financing of political life and the organisation of elections, knowing that, as has been recalled, two major democratic meetings will take place in 2022. The modernization of public action is in place with the new territorial organisation of the State deployed this year: creation of joint departmental general secretariats, new perimeters of the interdepartmental departmental directorates of the field of youth and sports and that of employment. The reform of the territorial organization put in place this year will make it possible to improve the service rendered to the French at a lower cost, but also to bring together the deconcentrated state around the prefect. The latter is reinforced by the reform and the latest measures announced at the two Interministerial Committees for Public Transformation (CITP) chaired by the Prime Minister. This priority is reflected in the expenditure of staff and in three major actions. First major axis: for the second consecutive year, the staff of the prefectures and the common sub-prefectures and general secretariats are maintained at the same level in order to support the deconcentrated administration and to strengthen its action – a community action that is useful at the heart of the territories. The unprecedented decision to maintain the workforce for two consecutive years marked the end of the strong deflation that had begun for more than ten years, which had led the network to lose 25% of its workforce. A total of 454 jobs will be abolished in the central government rather than in the territories, prefecture or sub-prefecture. This measure will help to strengthen the service of foreigners in the prefectures in order to accompany our action in this field. The second axis: the mission of general and territorial administration of the State allows, in the departments, to bring the services closer to the French. Two actions are already under way to achieve this objective. The Ministry of the Interior has begun the relocation of 1500 central government jobs to cities outside the major cities outside the Île-de-France. These cities will be candidates for these jobs. In addition, 23 posts of high-level experts and project managers are created directly with the prefects. These current recruits will take up their duties no later than January 2022.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u63	More officials! More job creations!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u64	Finally, the mission has a third significant focus on human resources policy for 2022. The Ministry of the Interior takes its full part in supporting young people. Funding for the 10,000 youth plan is planned and results are being achieved. I would like to highlight and commend the strong mobilization of the prefects. This plan has enabled young people from so-called political neighbourhoods in the city to access internships and apprenticeships. The operating and investment budget also focuses on the support and reform of the territorial administration. It will enable a convergence of social action and the financing of real estate projects linked to the new territorial organisation and the security of prefectures. I want to say a quick word about feminization, because what has been said in this rostrum is wrong.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u65	The numbers are talking!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u66	On 8 March, together with the Minister of the Interior, Gérald Darmanin, we launched a major concrete plan for the feminization of the Ministry of the Interior, in particular with the reinforcement of the Ariane and Ariane Junior cycles aimed at finding pooles of candidates in order to be able to appoint ever more women. The Ministry of the Interior was historically very masculine, but we have launched a number of projects, in particular recruitment campaigns for women. Podcasts and events are used to highlight women. The results are here: we have increased from 25 per cent to nearly 40 per cent of women appointed to the prefectural and administrative branches. I want to salute these women appointed for their skills. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group. – Mrs Élodie Jacquier-Laforge also applauds]] We have appointed a number of women to extremely important positions. Some of them are pioneers. I want to mention, for example, the case of Pascale Dubois, who took the lead in the CRS, the Republican security companies. This is the first time a woman has held this position. The feminization of the Ministry of the Interior, especially of the prefectural one, is well at the rendezvous, in the continuity of the orientations of the President of the Republic. In addition to territorial administration, the mission of the General and Territorial Administration of the State traces the appropriations required for the cross-cutting policies and support of the Ministry's missions. It continues to invest in the digital field, for example, and is leading large-scale projects on a priority basis for the benefit of the internal security forces. This is the case, for example, of the radio network of the future (RRF), a high-speed network that will be common to the security and rescue forces. I am also thinking of France alert, which must enable people to be alerted in real time: this has been mentioned earlier. Information systems are also essential for the modernization and transformation of other legitimate missions. For example, when it comes to policies for receiving foreigners in France, they will facilitate applications for titles. The deployment of the new ID card began in 2021: between March 15 and August 30, we received over 1.3 million applications. At this stage, 950000 securities were produced. I now come to the inter-ministerial fund for the prevention of crime. Video protection is a high priority, announced by the President of the Republic at the close of the Beauvau de la sécurité: the funds allocated to it will benefit from a significant increase. They will increase by €10 million under the Recovery Plan, bringing the overall amount of the IFPD to €79.4 million next year.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u67	How many cameras is that?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u68	Thanks to this action, the prefects will also invest the field of the fight against Islamism and against the various violations of republican principles by ensuring that the tools that you have included in the law of 24 August last reinforces the respect of the principles of the Republic. The mission of the General and Territorial Administration of the State finally traces the appropriations necessary for the organisation of elections within, of course, a dedicated programme. The ministry has taken into account the very relevant recommendations of your parliamentary mission to secure the important electoral operations of 2022. In order to ensure that the malfunctions observed last June are not repeated again, corrective measures have already been taken by the Ministry of the Interior. On 13 August last, the various lots that linked the Ministry of the Interior to the company Adrexo were terminated; They are now in the process of being awarded. The administration will no longer ensure that the conditions of its delegation to a provider are not sufficiently secure to enable the prefectures to control them. Controls throughout the supply chain will be greatly increased. Therefore, resources have been budgeted for the proper conduct of future elections. The programme also includes the necessary appropriations for the proper organization of the 2022 elections. Finally, I would like to recall the work we are doing on power of attorneys. We are committed to their progressive digitization. Moreover, this has worked well in the last elections, which has significantly reduced the time spent by the internal security forces on this mission. I'm coming to the security mission. Within the budget of the Ministry of the Interior, the appropriations for this mission and its four programmes, the National Police, the National Gendarmerie, Civil Security and Road Safety and Education are of course the first beneficiaries of the increases envisaged in the finance bill for 2022. This stems directly from the will of the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister expressed at the end of the work carried out within the framework of the Beauvau de la sécurité. Taking France's recovery into account, I can tell you that the increase in the appropriations for this mission is more than EUR 1 billion. Since the beginning of the quinquennium, this brings the security mission's budget to 2.3 billion euros. These appropriations, which will enable a significant part of the Beauvau's conclusions to be implemented, also contribute to advancing our priorities, with Gérald Darmanin, for the protection of French and French people. I would like to mention two policies: on the one hand, the intense fight against drugs;...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u69	All right! We are, like you, against legalization!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u70	... on the other hand, the fight against violence against women and children, of which the President of the Republic has made the great cause of his quinquennium – we will return. The evolution of staff costs for the police and gendarmerie will be marked by the desire to respect the President of the Republic's commitment to create an additional 10,000 posts in the internal security forces throughout the quinquennium. Measures will also have to be taken from the Beauvau de la sécurité. With regard to the creation of posts within the internal security forces, the draft finance bill provides for the financing of the last tranche of the "10000 young people" plan, which will strengthen the presence of police officers and gendarmes on the ground, as the President of the Republic has requested. Thus, all public safety electoral districts, I say all, will see an increase in the duration of the quinquennium. Our other priorities, including intelligence, also benefit from this plan to create police and gendarmes positions throughout the quinquennium. The budget also proposes a qualitative strengthening of the gendarmerie's field presence through the densification of platoons for monitoring and intervention by the gendarmerie. These specialized response units will be better equipped and staff will be more qualified, with volunteer assistant constables being replaced by non-commissioned officers. In the wake of the Beauvau de la sécurité, the so-called categorical measures correspond to an overall basket of wage measures structured around strategic priorities common to the two forces. It is a question of better valuing the missions most exposed – in mountain areas, for example – to accompany the managerial revolution by recognizing responsibility, or to strengthen social information and promotion. The increase in operating and investment appropriations is in line with our desire, together with the Minister of the Interior, to translate as soon as possible the axes of progress identified at the Beauvau de la sécurité. An effort was made in 2022 in the area of training. A number of key measures are planned, including an increase in initial and continuing training time, as well as the start of work on the establishment of the police academy, whereby all police officers will be assigned to one stage or another of their careers. We are continuing our efforts for police officers and gendarmes, and for an ambitious social action policy. I am thinking of the question of housing reservations and the question of suicide prevention or free transportation for police officers. I see that my time has expired, Mr President.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u71	The Government is expressing itself as it sees fit, but a somewhat demanding framework is still set.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u72	So I conclude by summarising my point. The budget of the Ministry of the Interior for 2022 will better meet the protection needs of the population, as well as the material needs of the security forces – I am thinking in particular of the launch of the major building sites.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u73	Finally, the minister delegate will not have answered anyone!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u74	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] I will come back if you wish, in the answers to the questions, on civil safety and road safety which I absolutely wanted to discuss in detail.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u75	We come to the questions. As far as speaking time is concerned, this time things are clear: the length of questions and answers cannot exceed two minutes. Mr Loïc Kervran has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u76	I take advantage of the release of the annual report of the parliamentary delegation to intelligence two weeks ago to refer to territorial intelligence, less as a service than as a function. There are various reasons why it will be an absolutely essential link in the internal security of the years to come. The first is the evolution of the threat. The territorial intelligence services will indeed have to play a decisive role in countering violent subversions, collective violence, attacks on the republican form of institutions, but also in combating terrorism, with the development of a threat that comes from what is called the bottom of the spectrum. However, territorial intelligence today does not have its budgetary autonomy. For example, the budget of the Central Territorial Intelligence Service (CCIS) is not isolated: it is part of that of the Central Public Security Directorate (CPS). The lack of budgetary autonomy is a major handicap for the territorial intelligence function whose budgetary resources ultimately depend on several separate programmes, while the needs are very important, be they technical or human. Deputy Minister, I would like to hear your views on the proposal of the parliamentary intelligence delegation to create operational program budgets (OPBs) dedicated to territorial intelligence. This would allow the SCRT, the intelligence department of the Paris police prefecture (DRPP) and the operational anticipation sub-directorate (SDAO) of the gendarmerie to benefit from real budgetary security, as well as performance and piloting indicators. The political will expressed by national representation could thus be translated into action.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u77	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u78	I will try to answer you within two minutes. As you know, territorial intelligence is attached to the Public Safety Branch. This, in particular, promotes a good integration of all public security actions at local level, but it also allows intelligence services to benefit from premises, equipment and means for their daily operation granted directly at local level. Separateing within public security funds for territorial intelligence alone would not optimize this management. On the contrary, this would add tasks in support of operational services. More broadly, the inclusion of territorial intelligence in the National Police programme allows it to benefit from the substantial budgetary resources allocated to this programme. This makes possible some agility that is essential for projects that, for example, require multi-year funding. I will conclude by recalling that, in any event, intelligence is – and remains – a priority of the Government, and that it has received further important reinforcements.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u79	Mr Rémi Delatte has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u80	As has been said, the Security Mission's appropriations have been strengthened under the Beauvau Security Act and under the Recovery Plan. It must be recognized: it is a strong signal. The latter was expected to make up for some of the shortcomings observed in previous years in terms of investment and equipment, but above all to adapt the national gendarmerie and the national police to the new risks and threats of civil security while ensuring their modernization. My question will focus in particular on the maintenance and rehabilitation of the housing stock of the National Gendarmerie and the National Police. As you know, the expectations of personnel, military personnel and their families are very numerous and pressing. I will take an example that is close to my heart – it also justifies my permanent and untiring involvement in this matter. In Dijon, the Deflandre district is the headquarters of the gendarmerie for the Burgundy-Franche-Comté region. The work required to rehabilitate housing and operational facilities is estimated at €77 million to provide heating throughout the winter, to bring hot water to all floors and to renovate insulation to ensure more comfort for the 400 families that are housed on site. Madam Deputy Minister, can you assure us that the funds needed to upgrade the entire housing stock – both housing and offices – will be sanitized? I understand that the future LOPPSI could integrate this dimension. I will also ask you whether an increase in appropriations could be envisaged in order to speed up the various real estate programmes expected.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u81	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u82	With regard to the launch of large-scale real estate projects, I would like to start by reminding you that we have three essential objectives. First of all, it is a matter of better welcoming the victims – it is an axis that came out of the Beauvau of safety. Second objective: to improve the daily lives of the police and gendarmerie. Finally, we want to build on the major projects that have already been announced. Your observation seems right to us. Moreover, many reports have shown this and the Beauvau de la sécurité has confirmed it: in the past, the real estate of the police and the gendarmerie has been sacrificed to the benefit of wage measures. In the continuity of the recovery plan, this budget makes it possible to undertake an effort that is really important. For example, I would like to highlight the unprecedented increase in loans for real estate, with an additional 185 million for the police and 95 million for the gendarmerie. In addition, emphasis is placed on the maintenance and maintenance of the premises by, for example, engaging in a security plan for police stations and barracks. The third plan, known as "door handles", intended by the Minister of the Interior for the maintenance of the premises of the services and equipment of the daily is also part of an effort to upgrade the maintenance of the premises, especially those you mentioned. In the long term, the Ministry of the Interior would like to study with the Ministry of Public Accounts the feasibility and sustainability of certain innovative avenues, such as the creation of a land which has been suggested by some parliamentary work.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u83	I call the appropriations of the General and Territorial Administration of the State mission, entered in statement B. Mrs Stella Dupont has the floor to support Amendment No. 1006.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u84	I apologise for starting with an amendment that contains a material error. This has not escaped anyone: we did not want to abolish the Political Life program. I am sorry, but I wanted to introduce it because, in substance, this amendment is important. It also supports a proposal made by the Special Rapporteur in the Committee on Finance concerning the territorial administration of the State and the prefectures. Last spring, as Special Rapporteurs of the Immigration, Asylum and Integration Mission, we discussed, together with Jean-Noël Barrot, the means of the prefectures. I admit that what I have discovered in terms of quality of service is worse than I imagined: users suffer from very serious delays which make access to rights very difficult. This leads to a number of disputes for which we have also produced numerical estimates. With Jean-Noël Barrot, we proposed to strengthen services dedicated to foreigners in the prefectures. You mentioned it in your opening remarks, Madam Deputy Minister. While the prefectural administration is being maintained, I wonder how you intend to effectively strengthen these offices in the prefectures. The need is real, staff are tired and rotation is important in these services. There is a form of urgency to increase the number of staff to catch up with a delay which has worsened with the health crisis in the investigation of applications for residence permits for foreigners.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u85	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u86	We share the same observation and the same will. Indeed, the means are not up to the humanistic tradition of welcoming us. Our colleague Bernalicis mentioned this: on the platform allowing foreigners to register to be accompanied in the management of their file, there are so few slots available that we are now witnessing a real trafficking of appointments. It is therefore necessary to hand over human and personnel in order to settle these cases, which, I would remind you, are those of people who are really entitled to asylum and who are kept in irregularity because of the lack of staff. If I therefore agree with the spirit of your amendment, I invite you to withdraw from the one that I am going to present since, unfortunately, your amendment completely mistakenly emptys the Political Life programme – given the upcoming elections, it could be a little awkward...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u87	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u88	First of all, I would like to point out that reinforcements are regularly assigned to the services responsible for foreigners in order to enable them to carry out their mission in the best possible conditions. Furthermore, the proposed amendment would significantly undermine the financial balance of programme 216 and in particular the means of operation of the central administration.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u89	We don't care!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u90	No, we don't care. I would like to point out that for the second year in a row there will be no termination of employment in the territorial network of prefectures and sub-prefectures. This unprecedented decision marked the end of the strong deflation that had begun for more than ten years, which had led the network to lose 25% of its workforce. For the past two years, full-time equivalent (FTE) reinforcements have been regularly deployed in the services dealing with foreigners. But the main internal subject in the Ministry of the Interior is to be able to strengthen the attractiveness of these services. Four levers have been identified to improve their functioning: to promote the career development of agents and to retain them through a more favourable compensation approach; adapt the working time arrangements with the definition of cycles and the payment of overtime; develop training for both agents and managers; define more favourable career paths for staff who choose to engage in these services. Beyond the reinforcements in terms of resources, there are new avenues for improving business processes and the organisation of services in the context of the deployment of digital administration for foreigners in France. This should also contribute to the further reduction of processing times for applications and to the improvement of the quality of service provided to foreign users – this is a priority, I agree with you on this point. Finally, as I said in the introduction, transferring the EUR 9 million and the associated jobs from programme 216 to programme 354 as proposed in the amendment seriously undermines the financial balance of programme 216 and, above all, deprives the central administration of the means to function properly.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u91	That's not good, is it?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u92	I therefore ask you to withdraw your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u93	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u94	For most of us, we have been sitting on these benches for four years. Excuse me for telling you, but after four years, we could spare ourselves the formal arguments like the one we just heard...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u95	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u96	... of the type "Oh yes, but you took $9 million on the 216 program, if we really did, that would be problematic for the administration." We can't table an amendment if we don't take the money somewhere!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u97	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u98	We are not the Government, we cannot create new appropriation lines or expenditure. Madam Deputy Minister, please say that you do not wish to raise the pledge because you do not have the budgetary means to do so. Be honest, but stop with these formal arguments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u99	I give the arguments I want!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u100	[[MM. Maxime Minot and Mansour Kamardine applaud]] In addition, we will save time in the budget discussion and this will facilitate the understanding of our debates for those who look at us. I would like to remind them that, in order to table an amendment to strengthen the appropriations of a programme, we must take them elsewhere, because we are not the Government; Only the latter can accept the amendment and raise the pledge. Assuming these discussions a little technical, but still, after four years we could have, at least on the form, a better debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u101	Mr Bernalicis, allow me to make a small point of vocabulary: with regard to a credit amendment, the Government cannot lift the pledge.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u102	Yes, I do!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u103	This is not exactly the same as in tax matters, where parliamentarians need to provide additional revenue to fill the additional deficit. Mrs Stella Dupont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u104	Thank you for that reminder, Mr. President. Madam Deputy Minister, thank you for your clarification. This subject deserves global attention and I share everything you have mentioned about training and career development. Let me stress: we need professionals who are physically present in the prefectures' offices...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u105	There's no one in the prefecture!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u106	... and in particular in those where users encounter extremely severe difficulties leading to delays in access to rights. We really need human resources in the prefectures. As the Special Rapporteur explained, my amendment raises a question as it involves a material error. I'm taking it off,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u107	That's all for it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u108	...but I'm still convinced of the interest...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u109	Thank you.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u110	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor to support Amendment No. 357.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u111	This amendment has the same spirit. The aim is to strengthen the resources of the territorial administration, in particular those of the prefectures and sub-prefectures. Do not believe that citizens are not interested at all in prefectures and sub-prefectures and that it would be only a matter of elected officials. They play an important role in local administrative and security life. When you see the grids of the closed sub-prefecture, it's anxiogenic to the population. Moreover, why not ensure that the sub-prefecture or the prefecture can be opened in the same way as France Services establishments? It is not asked that they be open all day, but that at least in the morning, you feel that you can enter by having access to a government department counter. There is progress since you are sanctifying the workforce, but it seems to me that we must take a step forward by increasing the number of staff and allowing all sub-prefectures and prefectures to strengthen reception at the counter; that is the meaning of this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u112	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u113	I fully agree with your observation. For my part, I was a little less ambitious than you – 100 million I wouldn't dare dream about it. The minister delegate mentioned this: in the face of recruitment problems in the prefectures, it is important to define a real strategy to rekindle the urge of our agents to exercise in CERTs and in services dedicated to foreigners. However, this is not enough: when downsizing has taken place for several years, how can the agents want to go on a path without knowing how long their position will be maintained? We need to go further, we need to go back to the declines of previous years and re-create jobs to bring people back to our territories. Just one small thing: in your amendment, you take the credits in Action 03, Digital, and digital poses a question. In my opinion, we don't put enough money to get effective tools. For example, at the Nantes CERT I visited, agents process foreign permits by DIYing from the application dedicated to French permits. However, there are some specific features that will not escape you, notably the control of the documents produced. I've seen agents make Excel tables next door to make up for the inefficiency of digital tools. So I am not really in favour of reducing resources. On the contrary, more money is needed to have effective digital tools. On the substance, however, I agree with you. The committee has not considered your amendment, but I am personally in favour of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u114	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u115	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u116	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u117	Assigning more staff to sub-prefectures and prefectures and strengthening the departmental level in State action was supposed to be a priority. At constant strength, if you strengthen in-house services, such as the foreign service, it means that there are fewer agents in other services, but they must continue to function. If more people are needed in the service of foreigners, this must be translated into additional recruitment and not a puncture on the beast, which has already been depopulated from year to year, as the Special Rapporteur pointed out. But this government, which prefers permanent self-satisfaction, explains that the figures are stable. It's all a scam.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u118	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u119	I support the amendment. We don't have the means, so, we're told, we don't. I would like to make a suggestion to you that the consideration of a Financial Amendment Bill (FFL) will be open in the coming days. Enter the necessary means in this PLFR.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u120	Oh, yes, that's it! All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u121	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u122	I thank the Special Rapporteur for having an objective view of the situation on the ground. Indeed, the situation must not escape the vigilance of the State and the Government. Prefectures and sub-prefectures carry out remarkable work, prefects and sub-prefects are in control but, in a departmental direction of territories (DDT), you have three agents: how do you want them to carry out credible work towards elected officials who come to see them or individuals who encounter a problem? Prefectures and sub-prefectures, as well as territorial services, must be strengthened in our countryside, which is essential. Seeing an open service is part of a sense of security. Today, however, only the gendarmerie are open.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u123	The Special Rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 789.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u124	It concerns the same subject: the lack of resources, which I was able to see when I went to the CERTs. The agents told me that they had probably underestimated the needs when setting up the securities centres in the deployment of the Next Generation Prefectures Plan (NGPP) in 2017. As I said yesterday in the Chamber, in the area of immigration, we must have a comprehensive strategy, and a first concrete step would be to strengthen the means for regularisation. This amendment is less ambitious. It doesn't cost anything because it optimizes the credits. He will indeed look on the "staff expenditure" line of the Staff and Central Services action of Program 216, Conducting and piloting policies of the interior of money that has not been used since 2018. Indeed, there has been an under-implementation of these appropriations between 16 and 30 million since 2018. I suggest you take this unused money on a recurring basis to create 254 FTEs in our prefectures and sub-prefectures. Once again, it is a matter of putting people back in our territories, for our fellow citizens, the people concerned and our agents on the brink of burn-out.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u125	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u126	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u127	The draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u128	There is, of course, a question of the number of agents in the prefectures and sub-prefectures, because it is the level of proximity, but before the question of number arises the question of qualification. The work of the prefectures and sub-prefectures has changed a lot, the computer tool has changed a lot and sometimes the staff is not qualified for these new missions. These may require an increase in skills and the recruitment, in sub-prefecture, of Category A agents specializing in territorial accompaniment or specific engineering rather than in execution tasks that have disappeared because they have been industrialised and digitized. On this issue, the state is not reactive. This amendment seems relevant to me because, if the figure is not huge, it concerns a subject, the qualification of agents, on which we have to work. It is essential to place next to the sub-prefects of Category A agents dealing with complex issues. This is becoming urgent in our territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u129	Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u130	I understand the Government's willingness to be more efficient, more qualitative, but, in the meantime, what is being done to remedy the shortcomings? In our ridings, we are constantly called upon to "dislodge," let me know, to solve administrative problems. Are we here to supplement the answers that the prefecture services should provide? Finally, at a time when the French economy is restarting and experiencing recruitment difficulties, how can one recruit someone who does not receive his driver's licence or a person who is in an in-between vis-à-vis regularisation? How can we move forward if the administration can't afford it, can't answer? The bosses cost the economy, which is dysfunctional: in the end, it is collective loss, for the individuals who suffer from it, as well as for the budgets of the communities and the state.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u131	Mrs Stella Dupont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u132	This amendment, which I believe is interesting and measured, also concerns appropriations which are not normally consumed. I am therefore in favour of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u133	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u134	Well done, Mrs. Special Rapporteur!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u135	The Minister-in-Office has the floor to support Amendment No. 979.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u136	France has mobilized to obtain 736 million of the 5 billion of the Brexit adjustment reserve, and it is now appropriate for our country to optimise the financial return of this European fund. In order to meet this ambition, resources are needed for the benefit of the Ministry of the Interior, which is designated an intermediary body for the management of the border component. These resources are allocated to the General and Territorial Administration of the State mission, which is the administration providing funding for the services of the Directorate-General for Foreigners in France (DGEF). In addition, this amendment complements the measure announced by the Prime Minister last July on the Interdepartmental Committee on Public Transformation. Following the successful completion of the call for applications, the establishment of a twenty-third post of high-level expert was decided. The proposed amendment is therefore intended to ensure that it is funded under programme 354, Territorial Administration of the State.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u137	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u138	As the committee has not considered this amendment, I will speak in my personal capacity. The Government wishes to update the Mission's appropriations to take account of the European Union's allocation of the Brexit Fund and to create a twenty-third post of high-level expert. Staff and central services have been under-implemented every year in previous years. Given the sums involved, it does not seem appropriate to bring more money. Moreover, the recruitment of high-level experts is not in itself a bad thing, but, while contact services lack resources and staff, would it not be wiser – and I thank you all for having voted my amendment – to allocate this money to CERTs and to the service of foreigners?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u139	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u140	The Government's amendment does not provide for any less appropriations, unlike ours, which are subject to this constraint. When there is a debate on this, I would therefore like us to be technically at the point and to stop sending false arguments to the figure. With regard to the amendment, I agree with the opinion of the Special Rapporteur. He is only one more expert and that is not what will change the face of the world, especially when we see the under-execution of some of the credits under this program 216.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u141	Amendment No 954 by Mrs Anne-Laure Cattelot is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u142	Amendment No 955 by Mrs Anne-Laure Cattelot is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u143	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u144	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u145	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u146	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u147	These amendments on the FIPD, I would like to take this opportunity to point out that this fund does little to prevent crime and is mainly used for engineering purposes in order to set up video surveillance cameras everywhere. We have a minister of the interior who thinks he's a VRP from a commercial camera installation company,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u148	Still in the shade, Mr. Bernalicis!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u149	...explaining from city to city that delinquency would go backwards if there were more cameras here, more cameras there, like not later than yesterday in Lyon. You yourself have made it a topical subject and the minister makes it a political subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u150	Stop!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u151	[[Claims on several benches in the LR group]] It's a bad expense to install video surveillance cameras. You would need human beings on the ground, a reinforced technical and scientific police, because the rate of elucidation of a judicial police officer and a technical and scientific police technician is much better than that of a camera, while a camera costs a crazy money: 15,000 euros at the installation, not to mention the maintenance. With this, we could skillfully put people back on the ground and carry out real prevention work.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u152	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u153	[[Mrs Blandine Brocard applauds]] I can't let such a thing happen without reacting. First of all, the personal attack on the Minister of the Interior seemed unthinkable to me: we can have good-level debates on the substance without insulting one or the other. Secondly, I am the minister responsible for the FIPD and its proper execution and I can therefore answer you very precisely about what is being done, particularly through the general secretariat of the Interministerial Committee for the Prevention of Crime and Radicalisation (SG-CIPDR) which I invite you to visit: you will be usefully informed about its action, particularly with regard to the working-class neighbourhoods. The FIPD thus contributes to the Summer Districts program, an effective, popular program, which allows to finance associations...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u154	It's under-executed!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u155	No, the programme is not under-implemented at all, on the contrary: it is co-financed with the appropriations of the Ministry of City Policy.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u156	Not at all!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u157	Mr Bernalicis, we listen to you when you talk, listen to the others when they talk! It's pretty simple, it seems to me.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u158	The Summer Districts programme is funded jointly with the Ministry of City Policy. Last summer, the President of the Republic visited Chambord for a national return of the operation. Associations such as Raid Aventure Organisation have presented how they link young people in working-class neighbourhoods with police services, which contributes to the prevention of crime. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] It is also the FIPD that funds the activities of the Parents' Committee against Harassment. It enables us to work with the Ministry of National Education to ensure that young people are not violent among themselves and that the police and gendarmerie, social services and educational services are more accessible, better known to parents and young people in order to better protect them. It is therefore wrong to say that there is no prevention of delinquency.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u159	Mr Pierre Cordier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u160	Madam Deputy Minister, you have announced an additional EUR 10 million for this budget line. How many cameras does this money make it possible to finance? The State is indeed present to help local and regional authorities with regard to investment, but the functioning of these structures then weighs entirely on the budgets of local and regional authorities.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u161	Yes, of course. It's called a scam!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u162	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 268.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u163	I do not agree at all with Mr Bernalicis with regard to the use of cameras,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u164	Of course, you agree with the Government!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u165	... which are extremely useful: this is true on a daily basis in all the cities that have installed them. Action 01 of the 354 programme, which I wish to supplement, aims in particular at preventing radicalisation. In August 2020, the Minister of the Interior announced that more than 8132 people were listed in the Terrorist Prevention and Radicalization Report File (SPRTAF). In view of the fact that a large number of terrorists will soon have finished serving their prison sentences and will be released, France must increase the resources allocated to preventing radicalisation. As a reminder, among the convicted, 42 people were released in 2020, 62 were released or will be released in 2021 and 50 in 2022, after serving their sentences. The establishment of the Prevention Units for Radicalization (UPRA) to isolate these convicts in prison, unfortunately, has only reconstructed small terrorist cells between radicalized detainees. Moreover, these dedicated units have never been completely waterproof. Among the Islamist terrorist detainees who are due to leave detention between 2021 and 2023, it is known that some people still have an extremely worrying profile. It is essential that monitoring and accompanying instruments be put in place when they are released. It is therefore essential to increase the funds allocated to the prevention of radicalisation, particularly in prison.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u166	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u167	The committee has not considered this amendment, which aims to strengthen the means of preventing radicalisation. Action 01, Coordination of personal and property security, is used to pay for jobs dedicated to the management of security in the prefectures, for a total of nearly 3000 jobs to which some 50 more will be added in 2022. The budget for this action is thus up 1.7%. Rather, within the mission, it is the Program 216's IFPD, Internal Policy Conduct and Management, which is the most relevant tool for the prevention of radicalization. As a personal matter, I therefore express an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u168	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u169	I will briefly return to the issue of surveillance cameras. Cordier, the cost of installing surveillance cameras varies greatly depending on the nature of the work and whether or not the community is involved in the funding. I cannot, therefore, divide on the basis of a fixed number to give you the precise number of cameras that will be financed with this budget. I hope, however, that I have answered your question; If this is not the case, I am at your disposal. Mrs Ménard, we believe that the prevention of radicalisation was mainly lacking in legal means; These were strengthened by the adoption of the Act of 24 August 2021, which reinforces respect for the principles of the Republic. The mobilization of the State services around the prefect and prosecutor is complete. It takes the form of dissolutions of associations, closures of separatist businesses, refusal of subsidies and all the tools we have mentioned, in particular the mobilization around the departmental units for the fight against Islamism and the community withdrawal (CLIR). Budgetary resources are foreseen to support this mobilisation: programme 354 contributes to this cross-cutting policy of €28.8 million in 2022, with a 10 FTE reinforcement plan implemented in 2021 on programme 354 to strengthen in the prefectures the teams of departments that are most affected by this phenomenon of radicalisation. The Government therefore expressed an unfavourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u170	The draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u171	The prevention of radicalisation is an important issue in programme 354, Territorial Administration of the State, and brings me back to an unbearable statement that Mr Bernalicis put forward in the opening discussion. The prevention of radicalization is a whole: it is based on the means given to the various bodies that are created in the territories, but also on preventive policies. To consider as Mr Bernalicis does that the Republic should promote a religion of atheism and leave secularism contravenes this approach of prevention of radicalization. The secular state must have a dialogue with cults: it is essential. This is why the systematic attack that you carry out against local law in Alsace-Moselle and against the means allocated to cults for historical reasons is an unbearable demagogy: in the end, it leads to radicalisation. The secular state recognizes freedom of worship. Secularism is freedom, not the imposition of another religion, namely, the absence of religion, atheism. If one recognizes religions, if one organizes a dialogue between cults, things happen more simply. This populist attack on your part only supports the will to radicalize that we observe in some territories!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u172	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u173	I would simply remind Mr Schellenberger that the Act of 9 December 1905 concerning the separation of churches and the State explicitly states that "The Republic does not recognize, salaried or subsidize any worship. The concordat in Alsace-Moselle is therefore a derogation from the 1905 law. I reiterate that I am in favour of the application of the 1905 law throughout the territory: not only in Alsace-Moselle, but also in a part of the overseas territories where some religious establishments are financed by the public authorities. I do not advocate state atheism, but the application of the 1905 law.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u174	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 270.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u175	Action 02 of programme 354 covers in particular the field of the law of foreigners: asylum application, residence permits, deportation to the border, naturalisation. The transfer made in this amendment aims to allow better application of the obligations to leave French territory (OQTF), which are the poor parent of immigration policy in France. According to figures provided by the Ministry of the Interior, between January and July 2021 the administration had succeeded in expelling to Algeria only 22 illegal migrants out of the 7731 obligations to leave the territory issued by the prefectures, since Algiers had granted only 31 consular passes. During the same period, France returned 80 Moroccans out of 3301 OQTF and 131 Tunisians out of 3424 OQTF. Some African countries are even less cooperative. Thus, Mali has not issued any consular passes for three years, despite the means of pressure we have on this country with Operation Barkhane that we are driving on its territory. In this connection, I regret that I did not receive a reply from the Minister of Armed Forces yesterday, when I asked her whether France would continue this operation. Indeed, the minister had threatened to withdraw our soldiers if Mali agreed to receive Russian mercenaries on its territory, which seems to have taken place in October.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u176	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u177	The committee has not been able to consider this amendment, which aims to allocate EUR 1 million to Action 02 of the 354 State Territorial Administration programme, an action which actually brings the jobs of the centres of expertise and resources title, which has already been mentioned. These centres investigate applications for national identity cards, passports, permits and grey cards and, in services for foreigners, residence permits, asylum and naturalization. Neither this action nor this programme seems to me to be the right support for your objective. While we are a number in this House who have expressed our willingness to strengthen the resources of programme 354, it is clear that our objectives are diametrically opposed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u178	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u179	Disadvantaged too.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u180	Mrs Annie Chapelier has the floor to support Amendment No. 391.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u181	This very fine amendment by my colleague Alexandra Louis aims to develop the work of general interest at the local level and to remove a number of obstacles. Work of general interest is a very interesting penalty for some offenders in that it allows them to punish but also to repair or even reintegrate. The Government has carried out various actions to develop the work of general interest and to make it the flagship alternative. Despite several legislative advances, there are many obstacles to the creation of TIG positions. This is why support from the State towards local authorities is possible through a contribution from the Interministerial Fund for the Prevention of Crime in the Prefecture. The TIG falls within the framework of the FIPD, which is intended to finance the implementation of actions within the framework of the crime prevention plans.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u182	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u183	I share your view on the work of general interest. In addition, FIPD is indeed a relevant tool for preventing crime. However, its budget of EUR 69 million has already been strengthened by EUR 4 million in 2022, which is a good thing. In addition, you have proposed to draw up EUR 1 million from the appropriations for Action 02, Election Organisation. However, we have had some concerns with the organisation of the elections, given the current circumstances, so I would prefer that the appropriations be sanctified in order to ensure the best voting conditions for our citizens. Unfavorable opinion, therefore.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u184	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u185	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u186	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u187	I would like to stress the value of this amendment, regardless of whether it takes some money where it is not necessary – but we are all reduced to that expedient. TIGs are essential. Communities are ready to play the game, but they need help, especially since the referent is not always there. I believe that FIPD is a good tool for dialogue with local authorities on TIGs, because FIPD must be an interface between local authorities, justice and prefectures. My group will therefore support this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u188	Mrs Sandrine Mörch has the floor to support Amendment No. 900.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u189	With this amendment, I would like to testify to the invaluable work of the Commissioners for the Prevention and Combating of Poverty and to try to strengthen this action. We created this function in 2020; Since then, we have been working hand in hand with them. This is the level we need to put an end to silos policies: the thirteen commissioners for prevention and the fight against poverty ensure at the level of each region and under the authority of the regional prefect, inter-ministerial leadership, co-construction with associations and a close partnership with local authorities. In fact, this is what we have always dreamed of, this synergy of efforts that we lack so much that we are truly effective and that we all demand out loud. The function of these commissioners is to break the social reproduction of child poverty, to ensure more accessible, equitable and incentive-oriented social rights to activity and to combat social inequalities in health. In practice, the obligation to train young people between the ages of 16 and 18 can be retained; Combating the dry exits from social assistance for children; the implementation by the departments of the first unconditional social reception of proximity; go-to for vaccination, if necessary, of precarious audiences; the overall support of the public far from employment with Pôle Emploi and the departments; the Public Service for Integration and Employment (SPIE) with the departmental councils, the employment centre and the family allowance funds, which act together and not separately. And while all these key actors in the deployment of the national strategy for preventing and combating poverty – I am thinking here of the Commissioners – benefit from the support of the regional prefect's services, no officials are attached to them, making their action very fragile, which depends on the resources of the prefects. In order to continue and realize this decentralizing commitment of the Government, the amendment aims to enable each prefect of the region to fully link a framework A, entrusted with the mission, to the Commissioner for the fight against poverty under whose authority he or she would place himself or herself.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u190	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u191	The amendment aims to strengthen the capacity of the Poverty Control Commissioners, who in each region play an important role in mobilizing all the administrations involved in poverty prevention and reduction policies. According to the progress report on this national strategy, an annual envelope of €28 million has supported more than a thousand projects in the areas of integration, housing and food. I regret that the amendment was not adopted by the committee. Indeed, I am all the more in favour of it because you are taking 800,000 euros from a programme that has already been said to be under-implemented between 18 and 30 million euros each year for several years. If we took EUR 15 million earlier, we can afford without questioning the balance of the mission, to go and get EUR 800,000 for this vital work.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u192	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u193	You are right to commend the work done by the Anti-Poverty Commissioners for each prefect in the region. It was this majority who created them and gave them all the resources they needed for their action. Each Commissioner for the fight against poverty can also mobilise regional and departmental services and all actors, and, if he deems it necessary, the regional prefect has the capacity to assign employment to the High Commissioner as he can for all services under his authority. Since your amendment is satisfied, we ask you to withdraw it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u194	Mrs Sandrine Mörch has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u195	I am very aware of the efforts made and the creation of this function is very beneficial. However, there is a real need to strengthen the capacity of these very good actors in the prevention of poverty, as they are completely overstretched. I withdraw my amendment, but I urge all Members to take action on their Commissioner for the fight against poverty, because many parliamentarians do not even know its existence.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u196	I now call the amendments to the Additional Rule before Rule 42. The Special Rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 790.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u197	This amendment draws attention to the practice of making available officials paid from the appropriations of the General and Territorial Administration of the State mission. Indeed, half of the funds made available do not give rise to any reimbursement from the host organisation, which represents a loss of EUR 8.4 million for the programme. That is why I would like the Government to submit a report to Parliament on this subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u198	The Special Rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 797.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u199	It is also a request for a report – you are well aware that this kind of amendment is intended only to elicit a response from the Government on a subject that is calling on us, and that is why I would like the Minister-in-Charge, without wishing to offend her, to elaborate a little more on her answers. This report would specify the budgetary consequences of the deployment of France services spaces in the prefectures and sub-prefectures network. Many of us share this commitment of the State to reinvest the territories in order to be both more responsive, more effective and more realistic about their needs. These points of contact must reinforce a high-quality supply of public services. However, we lack information on two points in particular: firstly, the number of staff mobilised and the number of recruitments provided for in programme 354; Secondly, the allocation of EUR 36 million of funding for this deployment in programme 112, Impulsion and coordination of spatial planning policy, of the Cohesion of the Territories mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u200	I'm calling Mission Security's credits, which are listed in Statement B. I call Mr Xavier Batut, draftsman of the opinion, to support Amendment No. 804.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u201	At the same time, I will defend Amendment No 805, Mr President.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u202	There it is, an effective man!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u203	These appeal amendments are intended to remind the Government of the need to provide the gendarmerie with additional resources, in particular to invest in real estate. Of course, I do not wish to deprive the national police of any funds or oppose these two internal security forces. As a reminder, article 47 of the Financial Law Organization Act (LOLF) provides that, for the purposes of article 40 of the Constitution, "the burden shall be on the mission with respect to the amendments to the appropriations". Any increase in expenditure within a programme must therefore be made, in order for an amendment to be financially admissible and discussed, on another programme of the mission. The pledge applied here may be raised by the Government. I consider, as my predecessor, Aude Bono-Vandorme, in his opinion for the finance bill for 2020, that "in the absence of a massive and sustainable fiscal abundance, innovative ways of managing the housing stock become indispensable". I share this view: by sorting out investment credits, it would be possible to entrust the management and operation of the federal park to a land company. I am pleased that the Beauvau de la sécurité has led to an increase in appropriations for next year to EUR 183 million in commitment authorisations and EUR 113 million in payment appropriations, and that they have led to the major efforts made in the framework of the France Recovery Plan and the "door handles" plan. These appropriations should be sanctified in the future Internal Security Policy and Programming Act and this budget item should be increased to EUR 300 million.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u204	What is the committee's opinion on these two amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u205	They have not been examined by the committee, so I will speak in my personal capacity. The numerous visits we have made to the field, my colleague, have clearly shown that we are concerned about the situation of the gendarmerie's housing stock. As you said, these are call amendments. You will therefore be able, following the explanations given by the Government, to withdraw them. However, I can only agree with the content of your speech. In the medium term, the gendarmerie's housing stock will require heavy and continuous investment. It may be precisely, as you have suggested, one of the challenges of the future Homeland Security Programming Act. You also pointed out that the efforts undertaken, not least through the "door handles" plan, but also through the budgets allocated to the occupant or to the owner when the State plays one of these two roles, have been unprecedented for fifteen years. In view of all these efforts and those foreseen by the PLF for 2022, if you do not withdraw your amendments, I will be against it – personally, I repeat –.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u206	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u207	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u208	Do you maintain them, Mr. Batut?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u209	I'm withdrawing them, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u210	It was worth it! Being so easily beaten.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u211	She's very good...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u212	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor to support Amendment No. 923.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u213	I will also present the following, point 924, if you will, Mr President, in so far as they relate to the same subject. In the committee of inquiry into the state of affairs, ethics, practices and doctrines of law and order, I had insisted on the need to make law and order training common to all officers, and on the need to reprove the specialized forces in the face of the new configurations of the crowds. The purpose of this amendment is therefore to abound the appropriations for the training of staff. Far from being a technical subject, it is also a matter of improving the attractiveness of trades and ensuring a greater match between the needs identified and the means allocated. The Socialist and related group, while noting progress, considers that it is already possible to do better so much the needs are important.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u214	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u215	I share, like all of us here, your concern for police training, which can always be improved. However, this concern is more than ever taken into account by the Government, particularly in the PLF for 2022. As proof, I would like to thank you for renovating the training of peacekeepers, with a new initial training course of 24 months' duration. In addition, as of March 2022, the length of education of assistant police officers will be increased to four months. NEOPOL terminals – new operational equipment for the police – and laptops with professional applications will be available in police schools from 2022 onwards. In general, the supply of training continues to grow in many ways. As a result of the Beauvau de la sécurité, training costs will double from €21 million to €42 million. As the committee has not considered these amendments, I am not giving an opinion in my personal capacity.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u216	I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 766.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u217	It aims to spend 8 million euros on the reopening of a national police school (ENP) – and, with such a sum, you might as well say that it would be a small school. These 8 million euros would be taken from the budget of the cameras-pionets which, I would remind you, according to the international scientific data at our disposal, have a benefit-zero cost balance. This money would therefore be much better used to reopen ENPs, since initial training is supposed to be an objective. We also hear about a police academy, an initial training of 24 months. In reality, however, there will be 12 months of initial training, the following 12 months to be employed in in-service in-service in-service in-service in-service in-service in-service in-service in-service in-service in-service in-service in-service in-service in-service in-service in-service in-service in-service training. It is therefore sufficient to shift the tenure of the peace-keeper student by one year. A true initial training of 24 months – two years – is therefore essential so that we can build on European and even international standards in the quality of training for peacekeepers, field and local police officers. Indeed, being a policeman is a difficult job whose exercise leads you to deal with very different situations – especially when you are a local policeman: in the context of the emergency police, you are called for a night or day-time noise, then for an intra-family conflict, then for a fight at the exit of a bar, and for what I know again – to help a homeless person, for example. We therefore need high-level peacekeepers. But for that, we need schools, which I have been asking for for for four years. Not one more has been opened. This is quite lamentable, and it shows your level of requirement for a policy that we do need.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u218	It's ticking!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u219	I do not hope that at the end of the fourth year, I repeat, this amendment will be voted on: we all have an interest in more police schools.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u220	Here's one more word in nuances!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u221	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u222	First of all, thank you for your pedagogy efforts, even though the tone has always been so peremptory for four years. Then, how difficult it is, dear colleague, to satisfy you, in life! How sad life must be with you! You asked us again last year to increase from eight to twelve months and never a satisfaction for what the Government has achieved. You blame us for our many self-satisfactions, but at least show the lucidity and intellectual honesty that must govern our debates. I recalled earlier that training expenditure was going to increase from EUR 21 million to EUR 42 million, i.e. a doubling.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u223	We don't have the details!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u224	This does not satisfy you completely, but Rome did not happen in one day. But we do even better than what you asked for last year. We do not deny that the effort should continue, and the Government will recall that it will be at the heart of the human resources policy for the next five years, in particular the subject of the future policy.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u225	Think about financing the expenses!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u226	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] But, gracefully, show some honesty and weight when considering these issues. We're talking about people behind the numbers. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u227	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u228	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u229	[[Smile]] This is the problem of exhaustive answers, Mr Special Rapporteur: they raise new requests for speech... The next speaker is Mr Ugo Bernalicis.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u230	I will fulfill my role as a parliamentarian and explain the situation of the initial training of police officers in this country. Prior to 2015, the initial training lasted 12 months; After the Bataclan attacks, the Government rushed and recruited in turn, noting that it had not kept its promise to hire 10,000 police officers; Since he did not reopen the police schools that Nicolas Sarkozy had closed, he reduced the training time from twelve to eight months in order to have, after three years, a less promotion in the walls of the school. And here you come to explain to us that the return to a twelve-month training is a great step forward. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, We are only returning to the state before 2015, that is to say to normality: you are only getting out of the exception. Worse still, what did the President of the Republic say during his famous Beauvau de la sécurité to look at the situation after 2022 – as much as it smells like in all other fields? The basic elements of the Judicial Police Officer (JPO) training will be provided during these 12 months; This training, which is a qualification, is currently provided outside initial training and lasts about four months. We therefore increase from eight to twelve months of training by incorporating four months of training as a judicial police officer. In addition, we are told that not everyone will become OPJ because it is necessary to reach a certain level, but that everyone will have taken the courses. It smells like a complete scam! The training budget is doubled, which is very good, but only the operating appropriations – those of Title 3 – are concerned and not those of investment. I am talking about building walls within which the future guardians of peace will be welcomed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u231	We need to requalify existing buildings!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u232	Finally, you do not detail the breakdown of operating appropriations in the annual performance project. In the few elements that are transmitted to us, we are told that it is the training of motorcyclists that costs the most and that it will require BRAV-Ms throughout the country. If this is the initial training you dream of, it will be without me!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u233	Good!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u234	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u235	In his closing speech at the Beauvau de la sécurité, the President of the Republic announced the extension of education, demonstrating the importance he attaches to the training of police officers. One can repeat the history of the duration of the formations since the creation of the National Police, still it is that when we came to power, in 2017, the duration of the formation was shorter than when we left in 2022.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u236	You're leaving in 2022? Good news!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u237	We must pay tribute to the efforts made! Yes, we have increased the length of education of peacekeepers.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u238	You are returning to the situation before 2015!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u239	Mr Bernalicis, we have listened to you, now it is the deputy minister's turn: that's how it is!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u240	The length of training we have chosen seems appropriate to us to accompany the new recruits of the National Police to their first assignment. When the Minister of the Interior, Gérald Darmanin, launched the work of the Beauvau de la sécurité, he listed directions for progress and first mentioned training. We were fully aware of the efforts to be made in this area. It was this government and the Minister of the Interior that responded to the problems of police training, by extending the length of the education of the peacekeepers from eight to twelve months. This increase in initial training is in addition to that of continuing training, amounting to 50%. We are also creating an academy, which, by contributing to this training effort, will free up places in police schools.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u241	Stop marketing!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u242	A national police officer recruited in 2022 will thus benefit, after his initial training, from enhanced vocational training throughout the life cycle. Work is under way to fine-tune the need for additional places in police schools. These places can be created within the framework of a new school as well as by the extension of already existing schools. This approach will be formalized in the draft Internal Security Policy Bill, which, requested by the President of the Republic, will be presented by the Minister of the Interior. The police school in Oissel-sur-Seine, near Rouen, will receive €24 million for its renovation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u243	That's the least I can do, anyway!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u244	We continue to strengthen ongoing training, particularly for the treatment of domestic violence and street harassment, in order to support police and gendarmes in learning how to deal with these problems. In fact, continuing training is essential when initial training goes back twenty or thirty years. The walls do not represent the bulk of the formation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u245	It can help anyway!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u246	In the open air, it's good too!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u247	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] The most important is the trainers, their pedagogy and the quality of their teaching, not the walls! These are of course indispensable, and we are allocating resources to this expenditure, but we cannot sum up the initial and continuing training to a question of walls.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u248	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor in support of Amendment No. 921.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u249	We recognize that the 2022 finance bill marks a positive development for the funds allocated to the security of our fellow citizens. The Security Mission consists of two programmes, the 176 National Police and the 152 National Gendarmerie. However, we must be honest and relativize the increase in appropriations because of several factors. First of all, let us not forget inflation! It, estimated at at least 1.5% in 2021 and 1.2% next year, will mechanically cancel part of the increase in appropriations. Secondly, the appropriations for the payment of staff costs for the two programmes, which account for 89% and 84% of the total appropriations, increase by 1.64% and 1.08 % respectively. By 2022, the police force is expected to grow by 2035 and the gendarmerie by 559 ETPT, i.e. 1.4 per cent and 0.6 per cent. While the overall trend is positive, trade union organisations have noted that there is only a catch-up, albeit indisputable. That is why the Socialist and Related Group has tabled this amendment, which aims to create 1,000 additional police jobs.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u250	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u251	In this amendment, you propose to create 1000 jobs in the police and to remove 1000 jobs in the gendarmerie, while the following amendment tends to do the opposite.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u252	It is a kind of pledge, of course we ask for it to be lifted!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u253	I know the story, but the fact remains that the adoption of your two amendments would lead to the stability of the police and gendarmerie. Let me stress, certainly in the humorous tone, the contradiction they represent. Here too, it is difficult to satisfy you! Numbers fell until 2015, all parliamentary majorities combined! Since 2017, they have increased. We have committed ourselves to an additional 10000 posts: by the end of the year we will have voted for an increase in staff almost equal to the one we promised. Moreover, if efforts are to be made – I think the Government will clarify this point – they must be targeted, in particular on the retention of agents in the Paris region and on the lines of investigation: on all these subjects, we must do more. [[Mrs Blandine Brocard applauds]] For all these reasons, my personal opinion is against these two amendments which have not been discussed in committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u254	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor to support Amendment No. 922.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u255	The presentation of this second amendment gives me the opportunity to shed some light on our Special Rapporteur. You are very familiar with the requirements of the budget model and of Article 40 of the Constitution, which prevent parliamentarians from committing new expenditure. This requires us to guarantee any expenditure, according to a principle that is necessary here, in the sitting, as it has been established in the committee of laws. Without repelling the past, it should be borne in mind that the security mission's ETPT ceiling was 149965 in the PLF for 2007, 143714 in the PLF for 2012 and 148571 in the PLF for 2021. In this PLF, it stood at 150605 and thus increased by only 0.4% between 2007 and 2022. Of course, we should be careful: in 15 years, the organisations, the distribution of tasks, the activities of the police forces, the administrative tasks, the maintenance of law and order and the prosecution of offences have been changed; However, it is necessary to note that between 2007 and 2022 there was a near-stability of the workforce. That is why the Socialist and Related Group is defending this amendment, which aims to create 1000 additional jobs in the gendarmerie, as the previous proposal proposed for the police.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u256	That's convincing!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u257	Good demonstration!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u258	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u259	The teacher has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u260	[[Smile]] Thank you, my student! The duty of balance requires that the expenditure which one wishes to increase on the other be abolished on the one hand. You are right, we know the game, but it is a pity to punctuate the title 2 of the other programme, because the sum of the two amendments in terms of numbers is zero!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u261	All right, we got it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u262	You could have taken the resources somewhere else! Secondly, you are right about the evolution of the workforce since 2007, and we are filling the hole dug for too many years. This catch-up is a good thing, we could all welcome it on these benches. Preaching for the safety of the French is useful. You're talking about percentage change, but I'll bring you back to the number of personnel: the gendarmerie has 110000 and the police 140000, and you want to add 1000 in each force. When compared to the total number of staff, your proposal is insufficient.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u263	It's better than nothing!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u264	For all these reasons, the opinion is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u265	Excellent teacher!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u266	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u267	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u268	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u269	Your answer is a little easy, Mr. Special Rapporteur. To say that 1000 additional positions in a year are nothing, is to recognize that 10,000 in five years are not much.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u270	The draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Defence, in support of Amendments Nos 806 and 807 which may be presented in a consolidated format, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u271	Yes, Mr President, I will present these two amendments at the same time.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u272	Before you remove them in five minutes.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u273	They aim to increase the appropriations of the operational reserve by 45 million to 115 million euros. Indeed, the EUR 71 million entered in the finance law will not be sufficient to cover the expenditure related to the use of the operational reserve by the end of December 2021. In addition, the reserve will be requested next year by the rise of the command of cybergendarmerie and by the missions attached to the French presidency of the European Union. Under these conditions, the appropriations provided by the PLF for 2022 will be consumed at the end of August. The increase in the appropriations of the operational reserve should be sanctified in the future Internal Security Programming Act. These are the objectives of these appeal amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u274	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u275	These two amendments, which are indeed of appeal, have the immense merit of recalling the role of the reserve, in particular for the day-to-day functioning of the national gendarmerie. During our joint visits to the gendarmerie of France and Navarre, we check, to which your amendments refer, that the appropriations allocated to the operational reserve are gradually sanitized. In this area, as in the others, Rome has not been built in one day, so we can hope that this Sanctuary will be gradual. Progress has been made, which you and I can welcome. For all these reasons, I would express an opinion against these two amendments if you were to maintain them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u276	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u277	The operational reserve is a major component of the security architecture: already high in 2021, its funding will be maintained next year. It should be noted that this important effort has been calibrated on the basis of a year of total mobilization marked, among other things, by the controls carried out in the context of the fight against covid-19. The conditions for an additional rise in power will be considered in due course during the next LOPPSI. I stress that the operational reserve provides indispensable support for the implementation of the comprehensive security strategy, and the increase in its resources, as requested by the President of the Republic, reflects the importance we attach to it. During the Beauvau de la sécurité, the Head of State set the high goal of increasing the number of reservists to 50,000, with a view to increasing the presence on the public highway and responding to future needs and challenges. Initially, in 2022, efforts will focus on recruiting and training new reservists to increase the footprint and strengthen units as early as 2023. Again, the budget allocated to the operational reserve will be part of the flagship themes of the next LOPPSI. The appropriations entered in the finance law for 2021, amounting to 70.7 million euros, kept its current format, with the deployment of approximately 1800 reservists per day as early as the first half of 2021. This level of staffing is renewed under the PLF for 2022, as are the associated appropriations. That is why we do not think it is necessary at this stage, Mr President-in-Office, to act in favour of these amendments, which I would ask you to withdraw.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u278	The draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Defence has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u279	I agree to remove them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u280	I said it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u281	However, during the review of the next LOPPSI, we will pay close attention to the means that will be given to the operational reserve in view of its rise in power.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u282	You could talk to yourself in the majority, we'd save time!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u283	I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 963.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u284	It concerns programme 161, Civil Security. I mentioned earlier the challenges related to climate change and the increased risk of fire, linked to the increasing number of drought episodes in our country's forested mountains. But the means to deal with it do not follow. The aim of this appeal amendment is therefore to provide us with an additional water bomber, which could also be used by our European neighbours if they needed it. Indeed, when a forest burns, even on the other side of the world, it is the whole planet that suffers from an increase in greenhouse gas emissions and a decrease in oxygen production: you know the fundamental role of forests in our global ecosystem to enable human life. It is very regrettable that we have not anticipated anything in this area, because it is not at a time when we will be confronted with disasters, which will become more and more numerous and important, that we will have to react. That is why I am calling for the allocation of additional resources to Program 161 and the purchase of a new water bomber.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u285	The house is burning, let's not look anywhere else!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u286	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u287	Mr Bernalicis, to anticipate is not to rush. You want us to buy a new water bomber but, according to the summary statement of your old-generation amendment. However, when investing, we must not only pay attention to quantities, but also to quality. Yes, we anticipate, but without rushing. We really want to modernize our fleet of aircraft and helicopters:...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u288	That's the case!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u289	... as I said in presenting my report, this is a major issue. Additional means are indeed needed, both to improve the operational efficiency of our aircraft and to reduce their maintenance costs, as they are aging and over-solicited. Several constraints beyond budgetary considerations are therefore to be taken into account. If you want us to buy new generation models, we will be absolutely in favour of them and we will anticipate things. However, in view of your summary statement and your intervention, I do not believe that the adoption of your amendment would allow us to modernise our fleet. The opinion is therefore unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u290	It's better to talk about Canadair than about bombers.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u291	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u292	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u293	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u294	If the problem is only about the Canadair model, we should be able to solve it fairly easily, Mr. Special Rapporteur. The explanatory memorandum to the amendment is not very important: it is the appropriations that commit. I see, therefore, that you have no arguments against my proposal, to which, in fact, you adhere: we need many additional resources. In this regard, perhaps there is a balance between anticipating and not rushing. You tell us that we have to wait for the arrival of the next generation Canadairs to increase our fleet, but what will we do if there are fires next year? Will you justify yourself by saying that the new model has not yet come out?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u295	We got it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u296	There is, however, a principle of reality on whose behalf we should be able to identify additional resources in this area.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u297	Mr Pierre Morel - À- L'Hussier, to support Amendment No 677.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u298	It aims to abound action 13, Supporting civil security actors. In this area, Fabien Matras's proposal for a law, which we examined recently, has provided some answers, particularly with regard to voluntary and professional firefighters. However, as was recalled at the national congress of firefighters in France, this text does not contain any budgetary elements. With this amendment, I therefore propose that you mobilise an additional EUR 20 million for the benefit of civil security actors, particularly young firefighters (JSPs), in order to carry out a national recruitment campaign and increase aid to employers. Indeed, we see a disengagement. As you know, the average duration of the engagement is currently nine years and, while we had 204,000 volunteer firefighters, that figure now stands at 193000.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u299	What about the covid?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u300	It is therefore necessary to make very important efforts, the measure that I propose here seems just and appropriate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u301	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u302	Of course, we are all committed to our model: our expertise in the fight against risks is absolutely exemplary and recognised at the international level – and not only European. With this amendment, you want to increase the assistance that employers of volunteer firefighters receive. However, there are a large number of devices other than this one. In addition to the employer label, to which you refer in the summary statement of the amendment, financial compensation is defined with the departmental fire and rescue services. Employers are entitled to a 10% reduction on fire insurance premiums and may also be entitled to an income tax allowance equal to 60% of the amount equivalent to the remuneration of the volunteer firefighter. Finally, funding is also available for vocational training, which is very important for these civil protection occupations. Since the committee has not examined this amendment, I shall therefore issue an opinion in my personal capacity which is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u303	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u304	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u305	Mr Philippe Gosselin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u306	Like the operational reserve, which we were talking about earlier, civil security is an indispensable element that must be sustained and secure and whose attractiveness and recognition must be increased. We welcome the French model where even volunteers are pros, both for their commitment and their effectiveness. That being said, as you know, some territories, particularly rural ones, have huge recruitment needs because of the faster turnover that we are witnessing today. It is therefore appropriate to retain and recognize the commitment of the firefighters and, in this regard, it seems to me that the amendment by Mr Morel-A-L'Ouissier largely transcends political divisions. We have love, affection, gratitude for our firefighters, but we still have to express it in the long term. This must be done for professionals, who have passed a competition and who have a specific status and rhythm, which is quite respectable. We need to improve their working conditions, and Fabien Matras's proposal for a law will no doubt contribute to this: it is in any case the subject of the discussions that we have at present, as the Republican Group has put forward proposals to this effect. It also needs to be done for volunteer JSPs, cadets, all women and men who are committed to daily life and who ensure continuity, not care, but firefighting and relief to people and goods – a mission that God knows how indispensable it has become.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u307	We must conclude, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u308	Finally, I would add that our firefighters are making up for deficiencies, particularly in the medical deserts. It is all these elements that need to be in mind and which explain why we will be voting for this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u309	Mr Pierre Morel - À- L'Hussier.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u310	Mr Special Rapporteur, you mentioned several measures, but why is there a vocation crisis? Why is the number of volunteer firefighters going to decrease? Why do volunteer firefighters hide their commitment from their potential employers? Because they're afraid they won't be recruited. That is why we need to make a move towards employers. Otherwise, we will have a real problem in our territories with regard to the numbers of volunteer firefighters.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u311	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u312	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u313	The Socialist and Related Group will support this amendment, and Mrs Karamanli, who is following this question for us, will also be able to explain why. A fine bill has indeed been passed, but there are worrying disappointments on the ground. Indeed, everything we have discussed in the House has not been followed by any effect, in particular with regard to the improvement of the retirement quarters or the automatic award of the recognition of the nation after 30 years of service. [[Applause on the benches of the IDU-I group and on several benches of the LR group]] We really need to maintain, encourage and recognize the work of firefighters; That is why we will vote for this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u314	We come to Amendment No 769, which you could perhaps present together with your two following amendments, Mr Bernalicis?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u315	They do not address the same issues at all, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u316	[[Smile]] Isn't it about money every time?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u317	I'll give it to you and try to be concise. This amendment concerns the question of combating violence against women, specifically the reception of women victims of violence in police stations in our country. Everyone knows that on these benches, we regularly witness polemics. Recently, the Montpellier police station was pointed at and called into question. I hear the minister in charge reply that training is planned and everything is going well, when it is obvious that it is not. The Group of the European People's Party therefore proposes to further strengthen our policy in this area – which is a consensus in this House – by providing an additional EUR 10 million for the reception of women victims of violence in police stations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u318	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u319	Like you, I'm very concerned about violence against women. However, I would like to remind you of what has been done over the past four years and the extent of the appropriations included in this finance bill. With 230 million euros, the Ministry of the Interior provides 80% of the inter-ministerial budget dedicated to combating sexual and gender-based violence. As you pointed out earlier, the Ministry has professionalized the mission of welcoming the public within its services, with the appointment and training of reception referents, resources specifically trained in the care of women victims of violence. In Paris, since 2019, 319 police officers have participated in a training course on reception, assistance to victims and domestic violence. Furthermore, it is important to recall that a protocol from the Ministries of the Interior and Justice systematizes the filing of complaints and allows only exceptionally for the use of the hand-held system. I will also recall that the law of 3 August 2018 strengthening the fight against sexual and gender-based violence criminalizes street harassment, with the introduction of the offence of gender-based contempt. Finally, and to mention just a few things, the Grenelle of domestic violence has led the Minister of the Interior to propose new measures to improve the reception and care of victims of domestic violence. For all these reasons, the committee has rejected your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u320	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u321	First of all, contrary to what you are insinuating, Mr. MP, the Government does not consider that all is well with regard to gender-based and sexual violence against women. It was we who made this a political issue and placed it on the agenda at a time when no other political party was talking about it or making it a priority – that is for the facts. I will then remind you of what we have done in terms of training. We mentioned earlier the initial training: 100 per cent of police and gendarmes are now undergoing 120 hours of training on gender-based and sexual violence – this was not the case previously. As for continuing training, the Minister of the Interior and I have set the goal of training 100,000 law enforcement officers on this issue by the beginning of 2022. In order to improve the reception of women in police stations and gendarmerie brigades, during the Grenelle of domestic violence, we have created the risk assessment grid: made up of forty questions, it must enable the law enforcement agencies to better qualify the violence experienced by women, and thus make useful use of the existing devices such as the serious danger telephone, the anti-apparatus bracelet or the protection order. We have instructed that 100 per cent of complaints are taken, properly qualified and forwarded to the Public Prosecutor's Office; There are more common hands, and obviously no refusal of complaints – these are not permitted by the Criminal Code, and any refusal of complaints will be punished. We have also created the platform to stop violence.gouv.fr, which mobilises 115 million euros of credit and on which police officers and gendarmes respond 24 hours a day and seven days a week in a free and anonymous way, without the site – with an exit button – appearing in history, allowing women who would not dare, could not or would not go to a police station or gendarmerie to prepare a complaint so that the justice system can speed up information. It is also possible to seize the police by texting 114. We've exceeded the Grenelle's goals of domestic violence. We had committed ourselves to setting up 80 additional social workers in police stations and gendarmerie; We now have more than 400, at least two of them per department. Prior to our arrival, some departments had no social workers or psychologists. Finally, we issued an instruction to the Directorates-General of the Police and the Gendarmerie to request that any police officer or gendarmerie convicted of acts of domestic violence no longer be in contact with the public in connection with the handling of complaints; So far, some convicted persons have remained on duty. Finally, we have appointed focal points on gender-based and sexual violence and domestic and domestic violence, as well as three officials directly attached to the Directorate-General of the National Police, the Directorate-General of the National Gendarmerie and the Police Prefecture. We are moving ever further to strengthen the training, improvement and inclusion of the word in the reception at the police stations. The last measure announced by the Minister of the Interior is the experiment of the system of "complaint by others": in the departments of Vaucluse, Pas-de-Calais, Haute-Corse, Sarthe, Morbihan and in several arrondissements of Paris, it will again allow to go to women who wish to lodge complaints when they cannot or do not want to go to a police station or gendarmerie.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u322	Mrs Albane Gaillot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u323	The intention is this: you have launched the Grenelle des violences conjugales and we see that devices have been put in place. However, it cannot be denied that there are still difficulties in police stations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u324	No one denies it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u325	Some women refused to go because they were not well received and their complaints were not taken up. There are still serious situations; Every day, the numbers are accumulating. It cannot be said that the situation is satisfactory. I note that you are making efforts, but much remains to be done. [[Mr. Ugo Bernalicis applauds]] I defended an amendment to that effect in the Justice Mission of the Finance Bill, but it was not passed. The guard of the seals has committed himself to providing as many serious telephones as necessary, but it would have been good to have included in the law the number of 5000 telephones, because the current budget is not sufficient to effectively combat violence against women.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u326	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u327	To avoid any ambiguity, I never said everything was going well; It is because there are problems that we deploy all these measures. If complaint filings had been going well for a long time, there would be no need to strengthen training, create a platform and telephone number, or propose a complaint to others. I do not think I can be taken in default on this point. The problem of serious danger telephones and anti-approximation bracelets, a subject that I know well, is less related to their financing than to their allocation: in France there are more serious danger telephones and anti-approximation bracelets funded than allocated. The problem is not to finance the increase in stock, but to know how to use it: 1000 anti-approximation bracelets are funded, but less than 100 have been allocated. Therefore, in the field, justice personnel must seize these new mechanisms, lawyers must know and demand them, and victims must know that they exist. That is why we are communicating on the subject. There's no problem with the budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u328	We don't have the same numbers...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u329	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u330	What you say about serious danger phones is not exactly true: the Justice Mission's annual performance project explains that the prospect of phone allocation is on the rise, but that the budget plans to fund the same number as in year n-1.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u331	We're talking about perspectives!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u332	The amendment proposes to anticipate this increase in order to respect the principle of budgetary sincerity. If you don't want to hear it, what do you want me to say? Obviously, you're doing everything right.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u333	I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 964.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u334	It is a plea for the technical and scientific police, often the great forgotten of the police: we talk about it in resounding cases, then it disappears from the minds to the benefit of other units. While the number of staff has increased, it is increasingly being used by active services to improve the rate of case elucidation. I hope that there will be more technical and scientific police officers and that they will have more resources, which will lead to an amendment on Title 2 and Title 3. This measure would improve the work of the small judicial police and the judicial police at large, not to mention that it would satisfy the demands of the technical and scientific police unions, which I share, because they ask for a better recognition of their status and powers. Indeed, they also go to the field, without being recognized as active police officers.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u335	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u336	For once, Mr Bernalicis speaks of a very important subject,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u337	What do you mean, "for once"?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u338	...because scientific and technical police are at the heart of developments in internal security. The performance model of the Security Mission also includes an indicator dedicated to the generalization of technical and scientific police; Of course, it is possible to further increase the use of these tools and their means, which operational forces often demand in the course of investigations. The problem you raise is closely related to it. I call for such a movement, which could be one of the challenges of the future programming law, and I am sure that the Government will tell us more in the coming months. At the budgetary level, however, all the sub-indicators that make up the generalisation indicator of the technical and scientific police bodes well for an increase in the mobilization of forensic techniques. The committee did not consider the amendment; In my personal capacity, I am unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u339	In short, the question is very important, but you are against it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u340	I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 771.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u341	It covers the 161 Civil Safety program and aims to increase the resources devoted to investment in retardant products and risk prevention exercises, in addition to the Canadair I mentioned earlier. I repeat, anticipation is lagging behind, and more resources should be devoted to it. We will probably have to do this ourselves from April 2022, given the answers given to the bench.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u342	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 276.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u343	The aim of this appeal amendment is to alert the Government to road safety: of course, I do not wish to deprive the national police of such a sum. Every year in France, thousands of people die on the roads. Despite important prevention campaigns, the issue remains unresolved. The numbers speak for themselves; Each year, the National Interministerial Monitoring Centre for Road Safety recalls the most serious drivers of traffic accidents. One in three fatal accidents is caused by excessive or inappropriate speed – this is the first cause of accident – one in four fatal accidents is caused by positive alcohol levels of the driver; narcotics double the risk of being responsible for a fatal accident, and by fifteen when the drug is associated with alcohol. Although the Act of 5 July 1985 on the improvement of the situation of victims of road accidents and the acceleration of compensation procedures constituted a major step forward for the compensation of victims of road accidents, notably through the principle of full compensation for damage and the success of the amicable procedure, there remains a legal vacuum concerning other aspects of road accidents. I believe it is important for the Government to provide itself with the means to reduce the number of road deaths and injuries and to improve the protection of direct and indirect victims of road traffic accidents.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u344	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u345	I noted that this was an appeal amendment. The Government will answer you more precisely. Road safety and education funds are already increasing by more than one third, both in commitment and payment appropriations, to around EUR 54 million. The summary of your amendment refers to driving under the influence of narcotics; The increase in the appropriations I have just mentioned should therefore satisfy you, since it is mainly linked to the acquisition of screening and verification kits used by law enforcement authorities during roadside checks in the fight against the use of narcotics while driving. In addition, 2022 will be the year of the drafting of the new general guidance documents which define, at the level of each department, the guidelines of the local road safety policy for a period of five years. The committee did not consider this amendment; If you do not withdraw it, I will personally be against its adoption.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u346	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 277.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u347	To return for a moment to the previous amendment, I recognise that efforts are being made on prevention. On the other hand, it is essential to improve the protection of direct and indirect victims of road traffic accidents. Amendment No 277 is also an appeal amendment. In October 2018, in an interview in the Sunday Journal, Christophe Castaner, the new Minister of the Interior, explained: "I am concerned, for example, about the pressure on the Spanish border. Since the beginning of the year, there have been 48,000 irregular entries from Morocco in Spain, an increase of 155%. In one year, non-admissions to the French-Spanish border increased by almost 60% in the Pyrénées-Atlantiques. » On a visit to the Pyrénées-Orientales on 5 November 2020, Emmanuel Macron announced his intention to double the number of police officers at the borders in order to combat, in particular, terrorism; he had gone to the Perthus border crossing, where some 35,000 vehicles cross the border between France and Spain every day. For the past nine months, five cross-border roads have been closed by prefecturally arrested concrete blocks, in the name of the fight against illegal immigration, terrorist risk and drug trafficking. The French-Spanish border is the second gateway from illegal immigration to French territory behind Italy, the Ministry of the Interior said.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u348	Thank you, Mrs. Ménard.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u349	Mr. President, I have a few more seconds. Since January 2021, Spain has recorded 21120...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u350	Your time is up, Mrs. Ménard.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u351	Mr. President, let me finish!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u352	I will give you the floor later. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u353	But it's not the same subject!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u354	I will also refer to the words of the President of the Republic in the Pyrénées-Orientales to tell you that much has been done, especially since his visit last November to Perthus and Saint-Laurent-de-Cerdans, on almost the entire Franco-Spanish border. The appropriations for action 04 Police for foreigners and international transport are already increasing by 18 million euros. In total, the action has more than EUR 1 billion. I do not see what the transfer of EUR 10 million from police appropriations could change, knowing that the effort is continuing.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u355	It's an appeal amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u356	I have noted that the amendment is an appeal amendment. As the committee has not examined the amendment, if you do not withdraw it, I will be against its adoption.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u357	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 278.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u358	Mr President, as a non-attached Member, I cannot participate in the general discussion or ask questions; I would at least like to be able to defend the few amendments I have tabled.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u359	I give you the floor to defend them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u360	I would like to add one figure: the Special Rapporteur says that a great deal of effort has been made, but there has been a 73 per cent increase in the number of illegal aliens arrested in the five border departments in 2021 compared to 2020.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u361	Yes, but these are arrests.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u362	Much remains to be done; That is why this appeal amendment proposed an increase in appropriations. Amendment No 278 is also in appeal. On the occasion of the closing of the Beauvau de la sécurité, the President of the Republic announced a bill on programming for internal security, which is expected to be presented to the Council of Ministers in early 2022. The Head of State indicated that he wanted to "double the presence of police and gendarmes" in the field in ten years, with an allocation of EUR 500 million for the first measures adopted in the framework of the consultation. All this is very good. We welcome this, simply wondering why he waited until the eve of the elections for such an announcement. As the adage says, it's better late than never! In order to achieve this objective of doubling forces on the ground, the President of the Republic further states that "it is necessary to free the police from administrative tasks, by developing the missions of the personnel". I don't really understand: on the one hand, you say that – and that's very good –; On the other hand, the Minister of Justice further complicates criminal proceedings, for example by making it mandatory for a lawyer to be present during a search.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u363	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, If only!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u364	Let us finally give the police the means to fulfil their mission, concrete and real means, so that they can ensure the safety of our fellow citizens, which is, I remind you, the first of the freedoms!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u365	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u366	[["That's right! » on a few benches of the LaREM group]] You're asking us why we didn't do this earlier. I remind you that we are the first majority to have increased the strength of the police and gendarmerie by 10,000 officers in one legislature; The increase is 6415 for the police alone. So I don't think we have a lesson to learn. When the President of the Republic indicates that he wants to double the number on the public highway in ten years, he continues the same effort; You should congratulate us and congratulate you on our country and the security of the French. I understand that this is an appeal amendment, but you type a little in every direction. You are right, we must increase the number of people on the public road, but this requires targeted measures. You're right. Undue tasks must be removed, but it's been a Sisyphus rock for over 30 years in the National Police. It is also necessary to target certain recruitments, by retaining staff in the Paris region and by developing the investigation sector. All these measures have been in place for the past five years; The work is carried out in cooperation with the police unions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u367	Let's see! The questions are on the table, but not the solutions!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u368	Finally, even if you did not take them orally, in the summary statement of your amendment, you make rather contemptuous remarks about the effort to renovate the uniform of the police, holding it for vain, accessory. However, it is a fundamental element of working conditions, from the point of view of the police themselves, which prevails here; It affects the quality of their daily work and thus the safety of the French. Even if you do not praise them, our efforts on this point are also commendable, for our country. As the amendment has not been discussed in committee, it is therefore in my personal capacity that I will deliver an unfavourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u369	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u370	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u371	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u372	Ménard, in the confidence in the judicial institution bill, we did not vote in any way for the mandatory presence of a lawyer during a search – even if I would have been in favour of it, on the merits. We simply made this presence possible; It's very different!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u373	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u374	Not at all the same! The lawyer may be present, but he may also not be present. During most searches, the lawyer will not be present, because the persons searched either will not have time to contact him or do not have one. On the other hand, I am tired of hearing that security is the first freedom. If there are many freedoms – for example, freedom to come and go or freedom of expression – security is not one. "Freedom of security" does not exist! Security can possibly be a right. And yet, our constitutional bloc recognizes only a right to security, that is, the right not to be arbitrarily challenged by the public authorities. But it must exceed you, Madame Ménard.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u375	The draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Defence, in support of Amendment No. 803, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u376	It aims to create a new endowment for gendarmerie company commanders, in order to give them additional room for manoeuvre for maintenance and minor work in brigades under their command. As a real command tool, staffing will significantly reduce the time between the time a breakdown or deterioration is found and the time it is repaired. Indeed, at present, the chain of decision requires that the information be brought back from the brigade concerned to the company, then to the grouping, the office of real estate and housing, or even to the General Secretariat for the Administration of the Ministry of the Interior, or to the landlords social landlords, which considerably increases the time taken to take over the repairs and, of course, their administrative and human costs. I believe that proximity is a guarantee of efficiency and speed, but also of economy. We ask the gendarmes to be as close to the ground as possible; We must give them the means to deal with the small problems of the daily barracks, which they are confronted with, of course, their families. With this provision for the operation of the company commanders, the Parliament would allow the gendarmes to benefit, in each of the 371 companies in metropolis or overseas, from 25000 euros of budget for this. Mr Special Rapporteur, we have travelled together throughout the territory and this request has been systematically presented to us, as to those of our colleagues who visit the companies and gendarmerie brigades. Today we have the opportunity to respond.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u377	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u378	Indeed, we have regularly noted such a problem during our numerous visits to brigades and gendarmerie groups throughout the past year to prepare for this work. You and I also have the same compass: we know that by resolving the problems of everyday life, we will improve the working conditions of the gendarmes, making them more efficient, in the service of the security of the French. But the Government also has this issue in mind; I therefore note that, in this draft budget, the gendarmerie is expected to receive a current operating allocation of EUR 43.2 million in commitment authorisation; It will finance office supplies, stationery, documentation, consumables, reprography, etc.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u379	... rules, pens, door handles....
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u380	...telephony, postage, representation and public relations costs and the provision of basic units. It is also the spirit of the door handles plan,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u381	Here!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u382	...which, I know, is very much appreciated by all the security forces, including the gendarmerie. A new "door handles" plan of €25 million will also be drawn up for the project in 2022.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u383	Even for door handles, everything is decided as close as possible to the territories!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u384	Thank you Gérald!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u385	Even if efforts remain to be made, particularly in favour of decentralization and even if I understand the amendment, I would ask you to withdraw it; If not, I will give an opinion in my personal capacity, as the committee was unable to examine it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u386	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u387	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u388	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u389	Mr Special Rapporteur, when you stress the importance of holding police officers and gendarmes, I fully agree with you. But it is also important that the premises of the police and gendarmes be worthy of the regal functions they perform. At present, this is not the case for many gendarmerie and police companies.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u390	Communities must be asked to replace the state!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u391	For some time now, you have been giving yourself a satisfecit – with you, everything would be fine, you would have done a lot. Well, let's take the example of the great commissariat of Chalon-sur-Saône. Under the previous legislature, thanks to Mr. Bernard Cazeneuve, we had obtained credits to refurbish electricity and paints. During this term of office, you and your colleague Raphaël Gauvain – whom I salute – obtained funding for work to isolate the ceiling. I ask you: if you do better, and go faster, also add the insulation of the windows.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u392	And the door handles! That way, in six legislatures, the police station will be like new!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u393	Don't forget the toilet!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u394	And then, during the next term, you will also build a new police station, in the Pres Saint-Jean district; It's a real necessity.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u395	I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 965.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u396	This relates to programme 161, Civil Security – I don't know why we are alternating with the amendments to programme 152, but it doesn't matter. After mentioning, in programme 161, aircraft, and then delaying products and risk prevention exercises, I come to the human means. The budget on this subject stagnates, but a budget that stagnates, it is a budget that falls, because it is eaten by inflation, especially when it comes to operating expenses, as everyone knows. The aim of the amendment is to abound the appropriations allocated to the prevention of civil safety risks, in particular fire risks.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u397	If we alternate between one subject and the other, it is because the order of examination of the amendments depends on the amount of the proposed changes to the appropriations, and not on the programme concerned.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u398	So do I have to propose larger amounts to go first?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u399	I asked that the discussion be reorganized in a more thematic way; This would make exchanges more coherent and more interesting. It will be done, but not today. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u400	Indeed, your Amendments Nos 965 and 771 are similar and are intended to withdraw appropriations from the same programme. Be aware that we are already increasing the appropriations for civil security by 2.5%, at constant scope. More eloquently speaking, this means that we are increasing the appropriations for action 11 Crisis prevention and management from 35.6 million to 37.7 million; It's not nothing! We can recognize you from the constancy...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u401	That's consistency!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u402	... – it may even be a form of ideative obsession –...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u403	It's the psychiatrist talking!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u404	Mr. Bernalicis left to win a LaREM nomination!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u405	Only after a good psychoanalysis!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u406	... in the desire to undress the police and the gendarmerie, in particular, of their pedestrian cameras – since that is where you want to take the financing. In our view, this is neither justifiable nor justifiable. The amounts earmarked for the intervention and operating expenditure of this action have increased by more than 18% compared to last year, allowing, to give concrete examples, to adjust the appropriations dedicated to aircraft fuel, delaying products and reinforcement columns. The credits are now adapted to the needs, as the people interviewed told me – this is not an invention on my part. Finally, if I agree with you on the priority that crisis management – including forest fires – must maintain, I must reiterate the principle of reality. The rate of fire management not exceeding 5 hectares increased from 91.5% in 2019 to 93.4% in 2020; the target for next year has been set at 96%. It is clear that the means deployed are appropriate to the risks. [["Oh!" on the benches of the LR group]] I mean, earlier, you didn't listen to me well.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u407	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u408	I have indicated that the overall state budget in this area may seem lighter, because it is compensated by the departmental fire and rescue services. After the principle of reality, this is the principle of responsibility, in particular budgetary responsibility: not to impose on others what one would not want to be imposed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u409	Mrs Albane Gaillot has the floor to support Amendment No. 795.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u410	This Matthieu Orphelin amendment tends to commit an additional €5 million in preventive measures to protect cyclists and pedestrians. In France, 9% of fatal accidents for pedestrians and 8% of those affecting cyclists are caused by a blind spot. As a result, there is an urgent need to help businesses and communities improve blind spot reduction tools for buses and trucks – with mirrors, cameras, radars and so on.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u411	Radar! But there are already too many!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u412	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u413	I will be brief, although this amendment also raises very important questions. We fully share your concern about the fair sharing of public space between different modes of travel. In our cities, the question arises more and more frequently and, alas, violently. However, it must be acknowledged that an increase of EUR 15 million in the appropriations of programme 207 is already foreseen in this draft finance law. In addition, in order to meet the new challenges of road safety, vulnerable users, including pedestrians and cyclists, are one of the priority themes for the period 2018-2022 of the road safety delegation's research and study strategy. I have no doubt that the work that has been done will make it possible to take the most relevant steps in the coming months. Finally, you mention a series of measures that can be taken quickly: extend zones where speed is limited to 30 kilometres per hour; to raise awareness of the dangers of blind spots, to generalize the school learning of cycling mobility; to multiply radars, and so on. These proposals would deserve to be discussed here – although they are often within the competence of municipalities or urban communities – but not in the context of a budget debate, I believe. For all these reasons, on a personal basis, I am against the adoption of this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u414	I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 966.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u415	It aims to increase the resources devoted to extreme emergency relief. As you explained earlier, Mr. Chairman, I understood that it would come later in the discussion because the amount of money proposed was less. It is again an appeal amendment, because in the construction of the budget it is necessary to have in mind both the principle of sincerity and political objectives. Mr Special Rapporteur, you have done well to tell me that in real life, when faced with difficulties, appropriations are found to deal with an unforeseen event, but it is still to show better budgetary management than to anticipate it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u416	I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 768.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u417	Its objective is to increase funding for suicide prevention in the police and gendarmerie. The budget line dedicated to this objective – which I share – stagnates, especially for the police; It remains equal to 1 million euros, unless I'm wrong. I saw on the social media that an association of defense and support to the police had launched a Leetchi...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u418	Let's see!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u419	... to be able to afford first aid training in psychological support – because there is first aid training in this area. I find it a pity that an association is obliged to launch an online pool to finance such training, when it should be an ambitious and committed public policy. In the end, I believe that the best way to prevent suicides in the police and gendarmerie would still be to put an end to the iniquitous policy of the figure, which does not allow a deep sense to be found in the noble and beautiful professions of peacekeeper and gendarmerie.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u420	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u421	The tragedy of police and gendarmes suicides is upsetting us all. The Government is taking all measures and the institutions, whether the police or the gendarmerie, have been mobilizing to deal with them for many years; We're all witnessing this on these benches. As far as the gendarmerie is concerned, as of 1 August 2021, the psychological support system of the national gendarmerie (DAPSY) was composed of 43 clinical psychologists. It has a central body and a national network of 41 clinician psychologists, both in metropolitan France and overseas. All these efforts have been increased in the past few months to cope with the increase you noted between 2015 and 2017. The number of psychologists has almost tripled in the last ten years and a master plan for strengthening the system plans to increase it to 55 clinical psychologists by 2023-2024. Indicatively, over the period 2010-2019, the average annual suicide rate of gendarmerie personnel was 25 per 100,000; In 2020, the number of suicides was twelve. It's obviously too much, always too much. However, this is the lowest suicide rate since the basis for monitoring suicide in the national gendarmerie. On the other hand, 233 psychologists were paid and served in the National Police in 2020. In addition, as part of the plan to combat suicide, an outsourced listening line was created in September 2019. It allows police officers and their families, who wish to be assisted by a foreign service to the national police, to have a green number to spread out – if I may say so – and to share their pains and difficulties, in their daily work but also more widely in their lives. For all these reasons, in view of the efforts already made, I am against the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u422	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u423	The delicate and difficult issue of suicide, particularly in law enforcement, was the subject of one of the Beauvau security sequences. With Gérald Darmanin, we chose not to retransmit it, unlike others, in order to have a freedom of tone and speech, with respect for the families, loved ones and the memory of the people concerned. It's obvious to anyone who's watching this debate, but I can't decently let it be said that the suicides of police officers or gendarmes would be because of any policy. I'm not saying that there are suicides or ill-being in the police and gendarmerie, because these are professions that are constantly being hit in the media,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u424	Yes, I do! Darmanin said it twenty times!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u425	... because they say things like "the police kills" and because they are difficult professions, in contact with the most problematic situations. Police officers and gendarmes are criticized and sometimes filmed against their will during their actions. These are two of the most controlled professions in the exercise of their activities, and yet it is often on them that reproach is cast. In concrete terms, the number of suicides and attempted suicides would be slightly reduced. Some say it's because of psychological accompaniment. As far as I am concerned, I do not want to draw too hasty conclusions, because we know that there are many causes. But over the period 2010-2019, the suicide rate – if we can sum up these acts in rates, which is still a little difficult – was 25 per 100,000; In 2020, there were twelve suicides. The gendarmerie has thus recorded the figure – sorry to speak of a figure for such a delicate subject – the lowest since the existence of the monitoring base, since there is a basis for actually seeing the evolution of this phenomenon. Beyond the suspensive nature of the health crisis, a successful system of prevention and psychological support was created by the national gendarmerie: it is the DAPSY, composed of 43 clinical psychologists, including 41 regional technical advisers present in the metropolitan territory and overseas. This is proof of the Government's commitment. The system will soon have 55 psychologists. As of 12 October 2021, the number of suicides in the National Police was 27 – of course 27 suicides too many and I am thinking of the families and relatives of the persons concerned – compared to 30 the previous year in the same period. In April 2021, together with Gérald Darmanin, we launched a preventive plan in the gendarmerie, following what had been engaged by Christophe Castaner when he was Minister of the Interior. The plan has four axes, one specifically dedicated to suicide risk prevention. It relies on communication materials and guides to raise staff awareness of suicide risk factors to better address weak signals, strengthen chain of command information, and raise awareness among students. A master plan for strengthening DAPSY, together with the "defence listening" system, as well as other measures, is being developed: a methodological guide for the study of the occupational environment after suicide, to identify the upstream presence of occupational risk factors for other personnel; training in the detection of vulnerable cases, with the so-called Sentinels programme; the use of the competences of regional negotiators in the transmission of information on the suicidal crisis to units; strengthening the care of personnel who have attempted suicide in the past. In 2021, the National Police was allocated a budget of 1 million for suicide prevention; it is renewed in 2022. It has made it possible to finance the actions of the programme of mobilization against suicide and to improve working conditions by means of so-called user-friendliness measures, exchanges and communication measures on the prevention of suicide. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] For working on this subject and for being with staff in difficulty, I would like to say that beyond the devices that we finance, it is a taboo. It is a cultural change that is necessary to recognize that we have the right to go wrong, that we can use existing devices and talk to someone about them. Nevertheless, we are a policeman or a gendarmerie, a strong, reliable and courageous human being, but who temporarily needs accompaniment. It is also this cultural struggle that we must wage.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u426	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u427	It is true that, as parliamentarians, we have quite few elements on the subject, since we only have the figures that we all end up knowing, those of the people who took action and committed suicide. But we have no information on suicide attempts at all. You just mentioned it, there are crisis cells, support, etc., but we're still in the dark. However, I would like to make two points. First, the main victims of police firearms are the police themselves. We must never forget this, especially when we are talking more and more about using weapons outside the service, especially on trains. I wanted to bring this point to the debate, because it seems to me decisive. Secondly, the deputy minister said that it is taboo, in the police, to say that we are going wrong – this is the case in many places, but especially in the police. That is true, I agree with the fact that it is clear and clear. But there is another dimension: when a policeman or a gendarmerie ends his life, no Republican tribute is paid, especially with elected officials, as can be seen for police officers who have died on duty. There may be some progress to be made, including by ourselves: to recognize that when a police officer or a police officer ends his or her life, it is not a taboo to put in a corner, which we must not talk about, except for a small tribute to families through a tweet. I say it very sincerely, because the lack of such recognition has shocked me over the past four years of my parliamentary mandate. Colleagues often take local initiatives in the form of minutes of silence or meetings, but there is no institutional plan. There is never any recognition – including political recognition – of these agents, these women and men who, even though they ended their lives, have contributed to police action.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u428	I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 767. And maybe the next one?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u429	I would like to make some efforts, Mr. Chairman, but they do not deal with the same subject. The aim of Amendment No 767 is to create the programme for the introduction of a receipt as part of an identity check. I have no doubt that it will provoke a small reaction on the benches of the committee and the Government, and perhaps among my colleagues on the other side of the House.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u430	[[MM. Romain Grau and Brahim Hammouche, special rapporteurs, smile]] It's true that you're very lonely on your side!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u431	In order to improve relations between the police and the population, it might be time to introduce the receipt for identity checks, in order to put an end to face checks. I know the usual answer: Facial control is prohibited by law, so there is none. No! The State, some police services or police officers may have been challenged by courts, in judgements where it has been recognized that there are checks in the face. I will not confront you to quote you in length, in broad and through the remarkable study of the Defender of Rights, who pointed out the existence of identity checks in fact. Everyone can agree that this is not the way to improve relations between the police and the population. In many cases, it is even situations that generate tension and sometimes end up offending and rebellion, as police organizations like to remind us. Let us move forward on this subject, be proactive and improve the relationship between the police and the population.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u432	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u433	The least we can say is that you have a sense of perseverance and effort! As last year and as in the previous year, you are proposing the creation of a program entitled "Instruction of a receipt as part of an identity check". The amendment, which the committee rejected, raises the central issue of the link between the police and the nation. This is a fundamental issue that we regularly consider on all these benches, including by discussing with the police. I am against the amendment which, in my view, does not allow the subject to be dealt with effectively. On the one hand, the introduction of an additional written procedure, while police officers already suffer from a surplus of so-called peripheral tasks – as we said earlier –, seems to me to complicate the checks and even to tend situations by adding a layer of procedure.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u434	100 percent!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u435	On the other hand, from the point of view of the protection of privacy and individual freedoms, I am somewhat embarrassed by the idea that one could track a person's movements and know the full extent of his or her interaction with the police. This would at the very least involve the creation of a new file of controlled people and, as I said to you last year, a relatively liberticided behaviour. When I say relatively, the adverb is too much about the freedom of movement of each other. Finally, the deployment of 30,000 péton cameras, of which 23000 in 2021 financed to the tune of 9.6 million by the recovery plan, provides an answer to the fundamental problem that you raise: the preservation of the link between the police and the nation through the deployment of a capacity to control the conduct of the national police's operations. This tool, requested by both law enforcement agencies and associations and by yourself, I believe, is a real step forward. If technical issues persist, its deployment is already underway – find out from the troops – and it is well received by both.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u436	Not by me!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u437	As you will understand, I am against the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u438	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u439	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u440	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u441	I'm astonished enough by what I just heard about the red tape. Within the Ministry of the Interior and the police and gendarmerie perimeter, all figures are given. The slightest act leads to reports and reports, morning, noon and evening. Everything is digitized in the LRP-PN (software for drafting the procedures of the national police) or the LRP-GN (software for drafting the procedures of the national police), to record such statistics. The only statistic we don't have is the number of identity checks: that's an estimate. It's still quite extraordinary! You say it would be because the CNIL (National Commission on Informatics and Freedoms) would oppose creating an additional file? I do not have the impression that this argument is the one that rejects the Government for the creation of various and varied files...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u442	That's for sure!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u443	... in the course of legislation, or even outside it. In this case, it would be rather protective vis-à-vis the citizens, and not liberticide, but we probably do not have the same point of view. You are right on one point: perhaps, basically, fewer identity checks would have to be done. We'd probably settle some of the problem. As for the pedestrian cameras, I am not in favour of their deployment, because you are totally unable, Mr Special Rapporteur and the Minister Delegate, to demonstrate their scientific effectiveness.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u444	I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 770.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u445	It is an appeal amendment, which has no relation to the previous one. It is intended to emphasize that it may be time to abolish the IGPN (General Inspectorate of the National Police) and the IGGN (General Inspectorate of the National Gendarmerie), to remove from them the tasks of monitoring the ethics of police officers and gendarmes. I am in favour of entrusting the IGA (General Inspectorate of Administration) with the traditional internal control tasks, including budgetary ones, common to all ministries, so that they can be completed once and for all. We need effective external control. When I hear the President of the Republic say that external control should be created, I perceive him as a nose to the office of Defender of Rights. It provides external oversight of ethics and security, but does not have the power to discipline police officers and gendarmes, even though it has pointed to widely proven breaches of ethics. It would be time to move forward, to stop agitating parliamentary controls to please each other and above all not to solve the problem.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u446	On Amendment No 117, which will be considered in a moment, I have a request for a public vote before the Group of the European People's Party. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. What is the committee's opinion on Amendment No 770?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u447	Unfavorable opinion. The police must strive for irreproachability. We all agree with that, but you are cultivating distrust over the length of amendments, in those you have been defending for a few minutes. We all need the police: we say it on these benches, we repeat it at every serious event, but on every occasion you put a piece in the machine to arouse mistrust of an institution that is so fundamental. As far as control is concerned, the announcements made at the end of the Beauvau de la sécurité are very satisfactory, contrary to what you say. The IGNN and IGN reports will now be made public. These two inspections are instruments in the service of the Directors General; they remain bodies subject to parliamentary scrutiny, following the model of the parliamentary delegation to intelligence (DPR), which can assess their action.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u448	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u449	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u450	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u451	A parliamentary intelligence delegation, which will not have time to deal with the substantive issues and which will oversee the control already carried out by others: it smells like a scam to the full! I cannot let you say that the IGN and the IGNN are happy. They have accumulated such discredit in the population that this is a fundamental problem. The British have carried out the necessary reform by creating a completely independent monitoring body: this works. Finally, I have no distrust of the police; I have some for the operation of the IGPN, the arming of the police outside the service, the checks in the facies, the non-observance of ethics: that, yes! But we will always want a republican police force to live up to the democratic challenges of this country.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u452	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 279.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u453	This is still an appeal amendment. Investing in intelligence is more useful than ever to combat attacks on the security of our fellow citizens and institutions, and to prevent public order disturbances.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u454	Especially to the far right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u455	This is all the more true because France does not have the means to monitor those who are likely to endanger our security – even though I recognize that attacks have been thwarted in recent years. France is the most affected country in Europe, with 80 attacks, which killed 330 people between 1979 and February 2021. Of all the countries of the European Union, including the United Kingdom, 44% of the Islamist attacks and 42% of their victims concerned our country alone. Since the attacks by Mohamed Merah on 11 March 2012, there have been 56 Islamist attacks that killed 293 people, including 18 children and adolescents. The Islamic State organization is responsible for half of these attacks. Therefore, one can only regret the small increase in the resources allocated to action 01 Public order and the protection of the sovereignty of programme 176 National Police, while the security tension is increasingly palpable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u456	Especially because of the far right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u457	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u458	You deplore the small increase in the resources allocated to intelligence and propose to increase them by 10000 euros – I had to read the summary twice to be sure.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u459	It's an appeal amendment!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u460	Of course, but even in an appeal amendment, you propose to increase by 10000 euros the appropriations for an action with 1.5 billion, which is growing by 24 million!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u461	It's an appeal amendment!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u462	That's the least we can say! In addition, as part of the Recovery Plan mission, the police receive EUR 17.8 million in commitment authorizations, to the benefit of the intelligence services, as you have read, at least I hope. The committee has not considered this amendment, and I am issuing an unfavorable opinion on a personal basis.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u463	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u464	In addition to Mr. Special Rapporteur's excellent argument, I would like to point out that there has been an abundance of intelligence each year in the quinquennium. In addition, there has been a 30% increase in the appropriations allocated to programme 176, between the budget for 2018 and the budget for 2022. Finally, additional appropriations have been entered for the 363 Competitiveness programme – EUR 16.3 million for 2022. The intelligence budget was therefore increased by 57% between 2018 and 2022. We can't say we neglected him. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u465	Change is now! Not when you were a socialist!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u466	I've never been a socialist!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u467	You were on the left!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u468	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u469	In an appeal amendment, Mr. Special Rapporteur, I could also have included 1 euro: the objective of an appeal amendment is precisely to draw the Government's attention to the nature of the request.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u470	That's it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u471	You pay the fee, Mr. Grau?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u472	Of course, budgets increased between 2018 and 2022, but to a lesser extent between 2021 and 2022 than in previous years: this is what I regret.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u473	I have before me an amendment No 982 on the additional article after Rule 48. Mr Mansour Kamardine, draftsman of the opinion, has the floor to support it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u474	I am the draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Laws on Appropriations of the Civil Security Programme. All the scientists we auditioned without exception drew our attention to the risks to the inhabitants of the 101st department, Mayotte, in particular a breakdown of the magmatic chamber, thus a tsunami, with a delay of only a few minutes to protect the population. There is also a risk of explosive volcanic eruption, with gas and ash effusion, which would make all channels of communication impracticable in the territory and would immediately deprive the inhabitants of access to drinking water. Although the risks are very low in the short term, we must take them into account and prepare for national support. To govern is to foresee,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u475	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u476	... including the worst, even if it is neither desirable nor probable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u477	The worst is never sure!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u478	I therefore propose that the Government give a mission to an inter-ministerial team to integrate, as soon as possible, the simo-volcanic risks in Mayotte, which have just been included in the plan for the prevention of natural risks. In my view, the Government, the Special Rapporteur and all Members of Parliament should naturally support this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u479	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u480	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u481	Your amendment has not been discussed in committee. You evoke a risk of simovolcanic phenomena in Mayotte. It is necessary to assess them in order to adapt our civil security response if necessary. I therefore give a personal opinion of wisdom.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u482	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u483	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u484	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u485	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u486	Mr Mansour Kamardine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u487	Let things be clear between us, in front of national representation: these are major risks. Madam Deputy Minister, I would have appreciated if you would have explained a minimum of why you were against this proposal. Sitting down and saying only "unfavorable" is a little short when it comes to protecting the population from a major risk.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u488	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u489	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u490	[[Exclaims on a few benches in the LR group]] I am going to answer, honourable Member, with great pleasure, even if I have been criticized for replying too long rather than too briefly. First, for the past four and a half years, the Government has consistently given a negative opinion on any request for a report. If you want to discuss a particular subject, my office is open, like that of the Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u491	But I come often, Madam Deputy Minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u492	We will gladly receive you to talk about Mayotte or any other subject that you like. I am pleased to stand up to say this at length: the Government's opinion on your request for a report is unfavourable, because we do not want any reports. While parliamentarians have many possibilities to monitor the Government's action, we do not believe that a report by which the Government would self-control or evaluate any situation, especially within our limited time frames, can be effective.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u493	It's an appeal amendment! The question goes beyond the report!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u494	I am at your disposal to extend this exchange later, if you wish.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u495	Mr Pierre-Henri Dumont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u496	You understand that, Madam Deputy Minister – everyone understands it – this is an appeal amendment. The aim is to evoke the dramatic situation of Mayotte, which everyone knows, but in the open, and not in the secret of the ministerial offices, where our colleague Kamardine would go, for Mayotte, or the deputies of a particular constituency of other departments concerned with uncontrolled immigration. The aim is to discuss these issues in Parliament, in the knowledge of all, so that everyone understands the difficulties and the solutions proposed, comparing what you and the oppositions put on the table. The aim is to resolve all tragic situations together for the inhabitants of the territories concerned, as well as for migrants in an irregular situation, mostly caught in the claws of the networks of mafias and smugglers. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] You explain that we cannot ask the government to self-control, but what have you just done about hospitals? Minister Véran has just launched an investigation into his own administration, his own hospitals and his own regional health agency, to see if they have really closed beds! You refuse to produce the requested report on the grounds that you do not want to do exactly what you do in the health field. It's incoherent!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u497	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u498	The Government is constitutionally at the disposal of Parliament: I would like to answer all your questions, as long as the Assembly allows us to discuss them. Tonight, you'll be looking at the credits from the Immigration, Asylum and Integration mission, about which we'll probably be talking about Mayotte. I cannot imply that exchanges would take place in the secrecy of the offices: this was not at all the meaning of my remarks. In addition, the Minister of the Interior and I were present during the examination of the appropriations in committee. Another amendment provided an opportunity for intense debate on Mayotte. I would add the full commitment of the Minister for Overseas Affairs. To answer you in more detail, in accordance with the time given to me, I specify that the Sismo-Volcanic phenomenon in Mayotte is the subject of an ad hoc follow-up, provided by the REVOSIMA network (the Volcanological and Seismological Monitoring Network of Mayotte) – as you know perfectly well. This network is established and structured. The crisis management tools are the same as in all the prefectures, they come from the ORSEC plan. Beyond risk awareness, assessed by REVOSIMA, there is ORSEC planning related to this risk and a mission to support civil security. The latter assists the prefecture's departments in drafting documents to guide the action of the State and other institutional actors in the event of a major volcanic event. Accompaniment is acquired for the coming months, as necessary. With regard to population alerts, 23 sirens were deployed in Mayotte in July 2021, at a cost of 1.5 million euros, of which 0.7 was consumed in 2020 and 0.6 in 2021. Sirens have been tested, they're on.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u499	If they are "on", they must not walk very well!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u500	We can therefore consider that the siren device is effective in Mayotte. To strengthen the resilience of alert systems, the deployment of another device is planned throughout the national territory from June 2022: France alert will also concern Mayotte. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Protests on the benches of the LR group]] You question me on the grounds that you raise a very important question, for which you want to get a detailed answer, but you do not listen to it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u501	Stop! Not with us, Madam Deputy Minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u502	[[Long protests on the benches of the LR group]] Wear your mask, please! I take it from your behavior that you're not interested in the answer and that you're just doing movies!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u503	Send your card, instead of reading it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u504	[[MM. Bruno Questel and Jean-Jacques Bridey protest]] And the Members of Parliament are applause!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u505	Everyone listens to the deputy minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u506	[[Protests on the benches of the LR group]] Can I say something? There's no need to be derogatory. You have been for four and a half years: you scream, you talk, you mimic the violin, you lower your mask. Be respectful! Screaming all the time doesn't make you better MPs!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u507	And you're not derogatory?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u508	I come back to Mayotte, an important subject: the France alert device will send information directly on mobile phones, in order to be as effective as possible and to prevent the population directly. Through this alert portal, authorities responsible for crisis management will be able to transmit alert messages to telephone operators so that they can be distributed to subscribers in danger areas. He seems to have responded to your inquiry. I say again, publicly: I am available and you can seize me,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u509	That's normal!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u510	... or ask a question to the Government or an oral question without debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u511	But we have asked written questions and we are waiting for the answers!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u512	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Today, like every other day, the ministers are at the disposal of Parliament to answer you, if you are interested in the answer.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u513	Mr Mansour Kamardine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u514	The difficulty, Madam Deputy Minister, comes from the fact that you first gave an unfavorable opinion, without giving any explanation. As you yourself pointed out, the subject is serious,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u515	The others, too, are serious.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u516	I want proof that you've been forced to develop your arguments. Besides, you invite me to meet you in your office, but I have already visited the Ministry of the Interior several times! I'll come,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u517	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u518	...I will gladly respond to your public invitation. However, I should like to tell you that the debate in the Republic is taking place in this House.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u519	I just answered you!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u520	Also, when I ask for an explanation, do not respond by inviting me to come and see you in your office,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u521	I answered you!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u522	[[Applause on a few benches of the LR group]] ...but let's exchange directly, even if I come to you for more information. In this case, I will ask your office to schedule a meeting with you tomorrow to discuss this issue.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u523	Let's fix it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u524	I call the funds from the road traffic control and parking special-purpose account, entered in statement D. I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 926.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u525	This is once again an appeal amendment – I would like to make it clear to the Special Rapporteur. The Government's policy of increasing the number of radars is not the only way to reduce the road mortality rate. Moreover, the countries with the lowest road mortality rates in Europe – Sweden, Denmark – are not the ones with the most radars: there are 1717 in Sweden and only 14 in Denmark, compared to 4400 in France, knowing that I do not yet have the latest figures. This amendment may seem contradictory to the one which I defended in the examination of the appropriations of the previous mission and I would like to give the reason for that. I am totally in favour of speed limits, because speed is the leading cause of death in road accidents in France,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u526	Note that Mrs Ménard is "at the same time"!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u527	...also, don't make me say what I didn't say. However, 96% of radar violations are made for very small speed exceedances.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u528	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u529	It is therefore necessary to act on the various tables. France needs to be more concerned about the state of its roads, which is increasingly worrying: ranked top of the World Economic Forum's rankings for its road network in 2012, France is only 18th, according to data from 2019.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u530	I call Mr Pierre Cordier to support Amendment No. 117.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u531	It concerns road safety: 192 million euros of payment appropriations are foreseen in order to increase the number of fixed radars on the roads and to develop the use of radars carried in ordinaryised cars, entrusting their conduct to private companies, which is annoyed to our compatriots. Do you know, Madam Deputy Minister, that 25% of road accidents are linked to the state of our roads, whether they are national, departmental, communal or intercommunal? In this regard, the World Economic Forum, which monitors road conditions in a number of countries, placed France at the top of the Western ranking in 2008. However, in 2019, we went to 18th place. This EUR 192 million represents an increase of just under EUR 10 million compared to last year. The aim of this amendment is to reallocate them to local and regional authorities for the improvement of public transport, road safety and traffic. As you know, Madam Deputy Minister, this issue has been the subject of debate in recent days: motorists would be milk cows, good pears, or even payers' pigs, as they say in the Ardennes department. The policy that you have put in place – the €100 allowance for motorists, radars, point withdrawals – is beginning to seriously irritate our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u532	Demagogue!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u533	Remember that the movement of yellow vests has emerged as a result of the increase in oil prices, but also as a result of the...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u534	Zemmour, get out of this body!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u535	...the same motorists on the roads. This amendment, which aims to transfer EUR 192 million from one budget line to another, is co-signed by forty colleagues from the Republican Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u536	That is the Zemmour amendment!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u537	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u538	You propose to transfer more than EUR 191 million from the 751 programme to the 754 programme to finance the road safety expenditure of local and regional authorities. The appropriations for the 754 programme are of course useful, as you have just indicated, and we are all convinced of that. They allow communities to make road safety improvements. However, I would like to draw your attention to several points. On the one hand, the amount entered in programme 754 is fixed according to precise rules, recalled in the annual performance project. On the other hand, community spending cannot be at the expense of the radar fleet. The latter must remain as it is, and sufficiently dense to fulfil its role of speed moderation, which, as Mrs Ménard pointed out, is the leading cause of death on the road. The reduction in speed is thus one of the main factors in reducing the mortality of road accidents. Therefore, limiting the resources allocated to the deployment and maintenance policy of the radar fleet would go down the available knowledge on road mortality. I am therefore against the adoption of this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u539	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u540	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u541	Mr Philippe Gosselin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u542	Mr Cordier raises an important issue, namely the maintenance of the road network, which is not at best in its form in a number of territories. The departments are partly responsible for this network; the state is, too, like municipalities and cities. If the skills are so distributed, the means do not necessarily follow, the cost is high, and the proximity network must also be maintained. As you have understood, this question refers to the major issue of road safety, as well as to the signal to our citizens that they are not just milk cows. However, a number of them do feel that they are being taken for the payer's pig. It is therefore desirable to flatten some elements related to road safety. Madam Deputy Minister, in 2018, I tabled a motion for a resolution calling for states-general of road safety. I was told that this was possible, and then the health crisis occurred. What follow-up will be given to these general states of road safety, which could bring together motorists, bikers, all the protagonists, the State, associations of victims, associations of motorists? They would promote a genuine dialogue between all actors and allow for a constructive approach, not just repressive ones.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u543	Mr Fabien Di Filippo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u544	This amendment provides us with an opportunity to discuss what road prevention should be. More and more means are being used to develop radar devices – now the private mobile radars that are on board – which are causing great reserves.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u545	They're very effective!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u546	Indeed, since they are trivialized, they have no educational virtue, and can be like a trap for motorists – some use the term "money pump" and I do not deny it. On the other hand, the principle of increasing the number of vehicles in use in accident areas – since speed controls are carried out there – is highly questionable, from both a safety and an environmental point of view. [[Protests on the benches of the LaREM group]] Thirdly, this afternoon I noticed an announcement in my department to recruit private drivers to drive these cars, with the promise of a CDI and 1,800 euros per month. But it is – directly or indirectly – public money that will be used to pay them, at a time when there is so much need for resources for nurses, police officers, teachers, universities, public services: do you really think that allocating tens or hundreds of millions of euros to the recruitment of private drivers is a priority of public action? I don't believe it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u547	He's absolutely right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u548	Baratin!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u549	Mrs Anne-Laure Cattelot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u550	I don't know what territory you live in, but at home, in the Northern Department, the departmental council has never invested so much in improving departmental roads, making a lot of chicanes, Berlin cushions, donkeybacks, smart fires. In addition, the recovery plan also enabled mayors and presidents of inter-municipalities to value their road heritage.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u551	Where? In the south of the north, no doubt...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u552	I am from a border area with Belgium – the comparison probably makes it possible to be reassured – and, Mr Bernalicis, as you know, in Belgium, chicken nests are commonplace, while in the territories – in the beautiful Avesnois for example – we ride perfectly.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u553	I don't go there often enough!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u554	Work exists everywhere and heritage improvement is ongoing. In this regard, I would like to thank the State for its investment in my territory of EUR 1 billion on the national road – the RN2, the old road linking Paris to Brussels – as well as for improving daily transport, not to mention the foundations of mobility, while some roads had been abandoned for forty years or even sixty years.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u555	At my house, the departmental roads are abandoned!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u556	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I don't know what you're doing to defend your territory, but I can do it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u557	I put to the vote Amendment No. 117.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u558	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 56 Number of votes cast 56 Absolute majority 29 For adoption 20 Against 36
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u559	The Zemmour amendment is not adopted!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u560	But Zemmour is already in the government!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u561	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 908.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u562	It is particularly important to me, since it aims to combat road accidents actively. He proposed that every young person who had reached the age of 14 should, on a voluntary basis, carry out a half-day of prevention in a rehabilitation centre in order to exchange with victims of traffic accidents. The age of 14 seems ideal, since it is the legal age for passing the road safety certificate (BSR); it allows a real awareness of the dangers of the road. In addition, this age is one year earlier than that of starting accompanied driving, which has been set at 15 years since the 2014 reform. Although prevention begins at an early age, in particular with school road safety certificates (ASSRs) at level 1 and 2, these trainings remain essentially theoretical and the current preventive measures seem to me to be insufficient. It is therefore necessary to organise direct meetings with road accidents in order to captivate and challenge young people more strongly thanks to the account of these unfortunately very painful experiences. As in any field of education, learning from an early age enables us to acquire better automatisms. I repeat, this amendment is important to me; It has been developed in conjunction with associations for the protection of victims of road accidents.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u563	We have completed the review of the appropriations for the Missions General and Territorial Administration of the State and Security and the Special Assignment Account for Traffic Control and Road Parking.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u564	We are dealing with the examination of appropriations relating to immigration, asylum and integration (No 4524, Annex 27 ; No 4525, Volume II; No 4526, Volume VII). Mrs Stella Dupont, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u565	On 9 June 2021, during his hearing before the National Assembly's committee of inquiry on migration, displacement of populations and conditions of life and access to the right of migrants, refugees and stateless persons in relation to France's national, European and international commitments, François Gemene, researcher at the University of Liège and expert on migration issues, said: "To prevent migration from happening is like wanting to prevent the rain from falling. I fully endorse, in my capacity as co-rapporteur, Jean-Noël Barrot, the appropriations for the Immigration, Asylum and Integration mission. The way in which our country manages migration flows says a lot about who we are, our choices, our hopes, our fears, our identity. From this point of view, the Parliament that is coming to an end will have made unquestionable progress. In five years, the budget for this mission has increased from €1.4 billion to €2 billion per year. The appropriations dedicated to integration have more than doubled. They make it possible both to finance the learning of French and our values and to apply the system of recognition of the engagement of foreign nationals during the state of emergency linked to the covid-19. In one year, this scheme allowed more than 12,000 foreigners to become French, thanking them for their commitment. Yes, I am pleased that these caregivers, nurses, delivery agents, security officers are now French, and I welcome your commitment on this matter, Madam Minister Delegate. I am pleased that together we were working to build bridges rather than walls. I also draw up a favourable assessment of the reception of asylum seekers, without ignoring the difficulty of the subject or the work that remains to be done. Nevertheless, I would like to highlight the progress that has been made. In the middle of the summer, we were able to evacuate 2700 Afghan asylum seekers from Kabul in dangerous conditions and find them a roof to sleep on their arrival in France, thanks to the remarkable daily work of the staff of the French state services as well as the associations and the creation, since 2017, of more than 30,000 additional places of accommodation. But we need to continue, strengthen and adapt our action in the area of accommodation. With regard to the investigation of asylum applications by the French Office for the Protection of Refugees and Stateless Persons (OFPRA), let us also look at the progress made. Our majority has decided to increase its budget by 50% since 2017, an increase of 30 million euros, and we have also decided to recruit 200 more people, bringing the workforce to exactly 1003 full-time equivalents.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u566	We have to welcome more and more!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u567	The health crisis has naturally affected its activity and the duration of education should be reduced. This reduction in deadlines is the target that is expected to be achieved by 2022. Since 2017, we have also given new impetus to the removal of foreigners in an irregular situation, a solution that is more humane, less expensive and more effective than forced removals. From a strictly financial point of view, we have worked to ensure that the funds for the asylum-seekers' allowance are aligned with the needs. This year, the budget forecast seems sincere to us. This positive assessment must encourage us to persevere because difficulties remain, shortcomings exist – I know that. The journey of the asylum-seeker's or economic immigration candidate's combatant is a very concrete reality for the foreign persons concerned, but also for the volunteers and the professionals who accompany them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u568	Oh, there!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u569	In the first place, the accommodation of asylum-seekers poses difficulties. Despite the progress made, settlements still exist and the health situation in the Calais region and on the north coast is of great concern. On the other hand, I am confronted daily by the inextricable difficulties of access by foreigners to the prefectures. Finally, I wish to inform you of my disagreement with the decision to keep many foreigners in administrative detention centres – CRA – during the state of health emergency, at a time when almost all borders were closed, making their removal almost impossible. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] While our majority has done much, much remains to be done. Nevertheless, since 2017, the direction followed has been the correct one and the proposed budget for the Immigration, Asylum and Integration Mission confirms constant orientations. For this reason, I invite you, together with Jean-Noël Barrot, to adopt these appropriations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u570	I call Mr Pierre-Henri Dumont, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u571	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u572	After a slowdown due to the health crisis, in 2021 migration flows to Europe resumed sharply: 103630 illegal crossings of the external borders were recorded during the first eight months, 64% more than during last year. In France, migration pressure at borders has increased sharply. It is mainly felt in the Central Mediterranean with arrivals from Libya and Tunisia up 83% compared to 2020. The Western Mediterranean is also a source of concern with arrivals increasing by 50% during the first eight months, with maritime arrivals in the Canary Islands increasing by 136%. Asylum applications are also rebounding. OFPRA received 12,000 claims in September, which corresponds to its maximum monthly processing capacity. The recovery of flows is having an impact on the coasts of the English Channel: since the beginning of the year, more than 17,000 migrants have passed through England, twice as many as in 2020, and some have lost their lives there, drowned. Your pathetic gestures – sending an emissary to Calais today, a monthly visit by ministers – are a hard cover for your lack of political will to resolve the migration crisis in Calais. Madam Deputy Minister, it is time for you to finally show courage: remove migrants from the deadly claws of smugglers; evict illegals who refuse to apply for asylum; Open closed centres to examine situations; prohibit the distribution of wild meals by associations in the vicinity of economic zones and dwellings, in order to prevent the death of migrants, as was the case this month, for two of them who died in the Transmarck cooperative planning area; in short, apply the law of the Republic in Calais. The Calaisians are not sub-citizens and the inhabitants of my constituency do not have to endure your angelism any longer. Like all the French, we also have the right to tranquillity.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u573	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u574	Thus, 600,000 migrants are waiting in Libya; Syrian refugees are more than 4 million to station in Turkey and represent more than 20 per cent of the population of Lebanon, a country that is more unstable than ever; Iran is home to 5 million Afghans. With an increase of 3 per cent in the payment appropriations of the Immigration, Asylum and Integration Mission and only 36.5 million spent on the removal costs of irregular migrants, the Government has clearly failed to take into account current and future migration issues. The central issue is the fate of foreigners who do not obtain a residence permit or who are not protected. The rate of enforcement of removal measures was 13% in 2019 and 6% in 2020. Unable to enforce its own decisions, the State loses its full authority. We have a complex and costly system for examining asylum applications, including a first instance, a judicial remedy and an appeal in cassation, which ultimately results in the retention of the rejected persons in the national territory; It's Kafkaian. As a result, more and more foreigners are staying in France irregularly. At the end of 2020, there were 383,000 recipients of state medical aid – MEA – an increase of 15% compared to the previous year. The real number of illegal aliens is obviously higher and this figure does not include illegal immigrants receiving care in Mayotte. The State's inability to carry out removals is due both to cyclical reasons, such as the requirement for a negative PCR test on boarding and the refusal to submit to it, and to structural reasons. Indeed, the persons concerned destroyed any means of identifying their nationality and many foreign States were reluctant to recognize their nationals and issue consular passes. It is essential to adopt a firm attitude, with the reduction of the granting of visas moving in the right direction. But it is also time to denounce the 1968 Franco-Algeria derogatory agreement. Moreover, a simple reform could be undertaken to facilitate the identification of foreigners, allowing the judicial police officer – OPJ – to examine digital media. What are you waiting for to propose? Other reasons for non-execution of removal measures are less known, including the fact that the administrative chain is under pressure and undersized: prefectural services are overwhelmed by the number of increasingly complex decisions to draft. The very low rate of fulfilment of obligations to leave French territory – OQTF – gives agents a deep sense of usefulness in their work. The increased presence of persons leaving prison on the alert processing file for the prevention of terrorist radicalization – FSPRT – in detention centres makes the work of police officers particularly challenging. Serious incidents occurred in several centres. You need to better anticipate the end of the sentence of detainees who are subject to removal proceedings in order to avoid the passage into CRA. The complex tasks of the border police also include investigating and dismantling irregular immigration and trafficking in human beings. This means that you must allocate more resources to them. Finally, it is our judicial system itself that suffers from embolism. Aliens' litigation accounts for 40 per cent of the work of the administrative courts, depriving the litigant of a quick decision on other disputes, including tax or urban planning. Administrative magistrates question the usefulness of allocating 40 per cent of their time and of the administrative court's budget to this dispute if, in the end, the OQTFs whose legality they recognize are never executed. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] In conclusion, Madam Minister Delegate, your budget attests to the government's denial of reality of the magnitude of the migration challenges on the horizon. That is why, if the Committee on Foreign Affairs has delivered an opinion in favour of the adoption of these appropriations, I have voted against their adoption.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u575	Mrs Élodie Jacquier-Laforge, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u576	For the last draft of this Parliament's initial finance bill, I chose to focus on the Republican integration contract – the IRC. As you know, every year since it was introduced by the law of 7 March 2016 on the rights of foreigners, the 100,000 foreigners from third countries to the European Union arriving in France sign a CIR. This tool has three components: the appropriation of the values of the Republic, the mastery of the French language and the professional integration of the first-time foreigner. This mechanism, at the heart of our immigration and integration policy, constitutes the materialization of the commitment of the person arriving in France to settle there. Its bilateral dimension guarantees the autonomy and responsibility of individuals. Several evaluations have already been conducted, notably by this assembly, but I felt it was useful to propose a global vision of the tool. My first observation is that IRC is a particularly flexible and adaptable tool. In five years of existence, it has already evolved considerably, in particular following the recommendations of the Interdepartmental Committee on Integration of June 5, 2018. The results of this modernisation are generally positive, but we can go even further and I would like to tell you how. First of all, the individualisation of the routes proposed in the CIR could be strengthened. In particular, it would be useful to take more account of the difficulty encountered by certain profiles, in particular those who have never attended school, in adapting to the learning situation by offering them a "learning to learn" module prior to training or adapting the proposed pedagogy. For the civic component, two appropriate developments are envisaged for the year 2022. The first is to reduce the time between the civic training blocks from four or five months to three months in order to reduce the loss of the public between the first and the last day. The second is to train civic training providers so that they can gain a better knowledge of the offer of the public employment service. This recommendation is in the direction of a better interconnection between the civic components and the employment access system provided by the CIR. Finally, I welcome the reflection undertaken by the Ministry of the Interior, in a longer-term perspective, on the creation of a document which the first foreigner would sign at the end of the CIR and by which he would commit himself to respecting French values. For the language component, I suggest that we deepen its link with the vocational integration component by providing, for example, training courses devoted to the learning of a vocabulary specific to certain professional fields – hotels, personal assistance, construction. In the longer term, a structural reflection could usefully be conducted on the IRC's language learning spirit. It could thus shift from a logic of means to a logic of results whereby the objectives of the contract could be considered fulfilled when the A1 level of the language path is achieved. In the course of the work of the Law Committee, the Deputy Minister pointed out to us that this path of development was under consideration, which I welcome. With regard to the social and vocational integration component, I am in favour of the creation of a tool bringing together the vocational integration programmes most suited to these audiences and the needs of the territory in an information system made available to vocational integration providers working at the Office français de l'immigration et de l'integration (OFII). I am also in favour of the appointment of Pôle Emploi referents advisors for first-time arrivals. With regard to the integration of refugees, Madam Deputy Minister, you announced before the Law Committee the launch of a platform of citizen sponsorships of refugees with a view to better professional integration. I welcome this initiative and invite you to look at another avenue: corporate sponsorship. [[Ms Stella Dupont, Special Rapporteur, and Ms Cendra Motin applaud]] Colleagues, I hope that these avenues of reflection will enable the CIR to continue its modernization and that the Government will take into account the opinions expressed by the rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u577	We will now hear the spokespersons of the groups. Mr Christophe Naegelen has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u578	To talk about the Immigration, Asylum and Integration mission, I want to start from a field meeting. A few months ago, I visited the reception centres for asylum seekers (CADA) and the emergency accommodation for asylum seekers (HUDA) of the department of Vosges. The meetings I made there proved to be particularly interesting and revealed the difficulties we are encountering with this mission. When discussing with professionals, when looking at the cost of devices and how to work with stakeholders, there are several findings that need to be made. First of all, with nearly $2 billion in funding, the resources allocated to the mission are indisputable. For example, the Vosges department benefits from more than 8 million for the management of CADA and HUDA. However, the question of the effectiveness and efficiency of this budget remains, because, year after year, the gaps are still the same. I think, in particular, of our great difficulty in agreeing with our European neighbours. The IDU and independent group is constantly repeating this: no satisfactory migration policy can be implemented without the assistance of the European Union. We will therefore pay close attention to the implementation of the European Pact on Migration and Asylum, which has been expected for many years. I repeat that no European migration policy can be pursued without this pact guaranteeing genuine cooperation between the Member States. Another continuing difficulty is the failure of the procedures provided for in the Dublin Regulation, with the transfer rate of asylum seekers currently reaching just 20%. With regard to the obligations to leave French territory, we recognize that the law has made progress, in particular with regard to the obligation to leave the territory as soon as the application is rejected by OFPRA, including in the case of an appeal to the National Court of Asylum (CNDA). This measure is supplemented by house arrest in the preparation and assistance arrangements for return. However, we are still waiting for the concrete effects of the provisions adopted by the National Assembly: the implementation forecast for 2022 is only 50 per cent. Another key issue is the fight against irregular immigration. Documental fraud does not seem to be a subject of interest to the Government, which is surprising to say the least. The commission of inquiry into the fight against fraud in social benefits of the National Assembly has, however, demonstrated the extent of the phenomenon. Unfortunately, the resources devoted to this issue are still derisory with regard to the issues at stake. The Government cannot claim its will to pursue an offensive migration policy and to regulate illegal migration without taking the fight against documentary fraud! It also seems necessary to put our budgetary discussion in the context of the recovery after the health crisis. We question the adequacy of the means to meet the needs: the delays in administrative procedures have been considerably extended, there are very few calls to the border and contentious cases are accumulating. All of these points point to many difficulties. The resumption of migration flows is also evident, of course, fueled by recent events in Afghanistan. We must also work towards better integration of immigrants in a regular situation and increase France's attractiveness for international students. In view of the appropriations allocated to integration, it seems clear that we are not in a position to properly integrate those we accept that they remain in the national territory. The mission of Immigration, Asylum and Integration is, in fact, a twofold problem: our country does not invest enough in the fight against irregular immigration and does not properly assimilate the foreigners it accepts. In view of the structural and short-term issues raised here, the IDU and independent group will abstain from voting on the mission's appropriations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u579	Mr Jean-Michel Clément has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u580	The Immigration, Asylum and Integration Mission has increased its funding by 3% to €1.9 billion, of which two thirds are dedicated to the care of asylum seekers. The main objectives announced by the Government relate to the 303 Immigration and Asylum Programme, which is the bulk of the Mission's budget, and are to improve processing times and the material reception conditions for asylum seekers. If we fully share these objectives, we believe that unfortunately the proposed budget will not achieve them. In July 2017, the President of the Republic had promised to give a roof to all asylum-seekers by the end of that year. As we approach the end of the quinquennium, we are far from this goal and asylum seekers make up a significant part of the homeless in our country. Only 59% of them are expected to be hosted in 2021. This figure, although up on previous years, is obviously too low. It should be recalled that the last finance law planned to house 65% of asylum seekers in 2021. As a result, Members of the Freedom and Territory Group are very surprised at the ambitious 2023 target of 90% of asylum seekers hosted. How, Madam Deputy Minister, do you intend to achieve this result? It should be all the more difficult to achieve as the number of accommodation places increases far too slowly in relation to needs. Only 800 additional accommodation places have been created under the recovery plan. The Government announced the creation of an additional 4,900 places by the second half of 2022, but decided to make these new places subject to a change in the expenditure related to the asylum-seeker's allowance (ADA) not exceeding the forecast. The annex to the 2022 finance bill on the mission's budget states: "These appropriations include a provision of EUR 20 million in payment appropriations to cover possible overruns of the ADA beyond EUR 467 million. If it were found at the end of the first half of 2022 that this was not to be achieved, this provision would be used for the creation of 4,900 new places of accommodation: 3400 places in reception centres for asylum seekers and 1500 places in reception and examination centres (CAES). It is very surprising, if not unacceptable, that the Government chooses to subordinate the necessary creation of additional accommodation spaces to the fact that the overall cost of ADA will not exceed the forecast – which will obviously not be verified. It is therefore clear that there will be even more places for him. The situation of a country like Afghanistan alone is sufficient to confirm this. Of course, it is necessary to shorten the processing times for asylum applications, which are currently too long. This reduction must involve an increase in resources and not a dehumanization of judgments. The lawyers defending the asylum seekers went on strike in early October and protested before the National Asylum Court. They denounce the unacceptable deterioration of the justice system made by the CNDA, as echoed in this Chamber by my colleague Sébastien Nadot, who chairs the Committee of Inquiry on Migration, set up at the initiative of the Libertés et Territoires Group. The CNDA is increasingly resorting to the rejection of asylum applications by order, without even hearing the asylum seeker, in order to save time. This is not our conception of the right of asylum in France and we will propose, in another budget mission, an amendment aimed at increasing the resources of the CNDA. The resources of the prefectures should also be strengthened in this area, as our colleague Jennifer De Temmerman pointed out yesterday in questions to the Government. The annex to the 2022 finance bill on the budget of the Immigration, Asylum and Integration Mission stresses the development of administrative detention centres and the opening of new places. This policy of confinement does not solve anything. Detention periods are longer and security problems exist in these centres. A fire recently took place at the Hendaya RAC. Last year, only 12 per cent of those detained in administrative detention centres were subject to deportation. It is also necessary to devote more attention and resources to the health and social care of the people locked up in the CRAs, but also to develop alternative solutions to these centres. A word, finally, about the recent decision of the Ministry of the Interior to tighten the granting of visas for nationals of the Maghreb countries. Is the solution chosen the most suitable solution to the conditions for returning illegally resident nationals to the country? On the contrary, it risks unfairly penalizing many of its citizens, who are perfectly legitimate to come and study in our country, to bring their skills to it or to visit it. [[Gérard Leseul and Elsa Faucillon applaud]] In the end, the Liberties and Territories Group will vote against the appropriations of the Immigration, Asylum and Integration mission, which will not achieve the objective of dignity of welcoming migrants on our soil, while respecting the humanitarian imperatives of which we are all custodians.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u581	The continuation of the budget discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-27-O1034.u582	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one thirty: Further to the discussion of the second part of the 2022 Finance Bill: Further review of the Immigration, Asylum and Integration Mission's appropriations. The meeting is adjourned.
