ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u1	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the proposal for a law to take over and repair the consequences of French nuclear tests (No 3966, 4237).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u2	In the general debate, Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u3	Military nuclear power is a very cleavage issue, and we need to address diplomatic and health issues. To put an end to this inhumane weapon of global insecurity and the mistreatment of the human and environmental victims of testing, we must work to strengthen the multilateral architecture of nuclear non-proliferation and disarmament. We must therefore work harder to bring the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty into force, to engage more firmly in negotiations on the fissile material cut-off treaty, but also — and above all — to sincerely advocate for the implementation of article 6 of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT), which requires "to pursue negotiations in good faith on effective measures relating to... nuclear disarmament and on a treaty on general and complete disarmament under strict and effective international control". In my view, it is obviously the signing of the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons (TIAN), which will make progress in this area: since its articles 6 and 7 highlight the need to rehabilitate the environment after testing and the assistance that States can provide in this area, the ratification of TIAN would promote a French policy for the benefit of victims, whether human or not, of nuclear tests. It would therefore help both to end military nuclear power and to encourage the French State to take better care of people affected by radiation-induced diseases. On the health side, pending the signature of this treaty by France, this bill could be the cornerstone of the reparation that the State owes to the victims of its tests, both in Algeria and in France – for Polynesia and Algeria have been the test sites for French nuclear weapons 200 times. As a result of these numerous trials, many soldiers and civilians, whether they are residents or participants in these actions, have been affected by the very powerful radioactivity emitted during the shootings or explosions. Serious so-called radiation-induced diseases and too many premature deaths have resulted. Despite the dramatic nature of this state of affairs, the State waited 14 years after the last trial for 2010 to react by adopting the law on the recognition and compensation of victims of French nuclear tests, known as the Morin law. But while this text has been a step forward, it is nevertheless perfect: the compensation criteria used are too restrictive and the recognition dossiers are too complex to mount, so that only a few of the 150000 Polynesians potentially eligible could be compensated. As for the Algerians, only one has succeeded, for only sixty-three files filed in ten years! In Algeria, it would be time for the States concerned to move forward to clean up the sites and to help the populations affected by the consequences of the nuclear tests in Algerian Sahara: it was unusual for France, which was responsible for those tests, not to repair the damage it had caused. The same applies to Algerians who have almost no possibility of being compensated, in particular because the areas declared irradiated are very small, which was the case in Polynesia before a massive mobilization changed this situation. Non-Francophones should then be given access to compensation files in different languages. Finally, the State should make available the archives indicating where the irradiated objects left in the Saharan desert after the trials were buried. These objects, the size of which ranges from screwdrivers to planes, must be treated, and it is up to France to take charge of this treatment. While this bill deals with Polynesia, it also sets the stage for a concrete improvement of the Algerian situation. In particular, it could serve as a basis for the signing of a bilateral treaty with Algeria, in order to achieve the same result as in France. Michel Fanget and I, as co-chairs of the study group on the entry into force of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty, had the opportunity to defend this position at a meeting on this subject on 30 March. We had interviewed our colleagues Moetai Brothers and Maina Sage, as well as Patrice Bouveret, Director of the Arms Observatory, and Jean-Marie Collin, specialist in the issue and spokesperson for the French branch of the international campaign to abolish nuclear weapons (ICAN France). The reflections presented today by the rapporteur resonate strongly with these exchanges and show the importance of his work. This bill is therefore another step on the road to a proper consideration of the victims of nuclear tests in Polynesia. Beyond the improvements it makes to the Morin law, it is made necessary by the fact that the first reflex of the state, when it discovers itself guilty of ill health, is to make ostrich. This attitude must definitely cease. With its ability to ignore the past, to complicate access to documents – or even to classify some of them to keep the curious away – and to lose the victims in the way of the administration or to send them back to endless trials, France never accepts its mistakes and does not know how to repair them with dignity. The scandal of contaminated blood was a major shock to a large number of French. He pointed out that the State was determined not to see, and above all not to accept its faults or faults. The victims paid a very high price, and nothing was done to repair this tragedy. And what about the asbestos scandal! It took years of fierce fighting on the part of the victims and their relatives to have the State's faults recognized, as it took the exceptional organisation and solidarity of the National Association of Asbestos Victims (ANDEVA) to make progress in this fight. ANDEVA immediately recognised similarities between the treatment of victims of asbestos and that of victims of French nuclear tests. The first concerns temporality: whether it is a question of responding to the victims of asbestos or of recognizing the consequences of French nuclear tests, the time scale at which the State obeys is that of the decade. Unfortunately, the one imposed on the victims is much shorter! It is time for the State to accelerate and hear the claims, suffering and death of its victims. The majority and the executive would be well inspired to understand it now. This inability of the French state to reason at human level is dramatic and contributes to further undermining the link of trust between the French state and its citizens. I have heard the arguments put forward by the majority: they are very often the same, and none speak of people. However, if there is a clear line on this day's discussion of the legislative proposals of the deputies of the Democratic and Republican Left Group, it is the need to think first of humans. When Moetai Brother speaks of the need to put things to a standstill by setting up a committee composed of parliamentarians and experts on the question, you will answer that you must wait for the round table decided in disaster by the executive! Is a round table a better format than a committee that will work for a year before delivering its conclusions, as we propose in Article 1 of the text? I would like to hear you on this point, ladies and gentlemen of the majority! The second similarity between asbestos and nuclear testing is the lack of understanding of the suffering of the victims. Let us therefore act now to show the victims that we take into account their suffering: it is very real. Let us adopt this text by thinking of the transgenerational victims of nuclear testing. The Minister of Solidarity and Health explained earlier that these victims do not exist. I have visited Hiroshima several times. I met some hibakusha. I listened to university students explain that no romantic relationship with residents of other cities was possible, because as children or grandchildren in Hiroshima, there was a high probability that their own children would have malformations or disabilities. If these people are not transgenerational victims, what are they? I regret that Mr. Veran is not here to hear this testimony. I didn't invent it: I just listened and found that there is evidence that this phenomenon exists – the Japanese could provide us with it. Let us therefore apply a presumption of causality between radiation-induced diseases and trials! The state must not let anyone die because it wants to save money. Let us vote, moreover, for the State to be the payer, not the Polynesians, through their own local social security fund! Beyond the political arguments, who can really oppose the content of this bill? Finally, with regard to the environmental consequences, it was not until 2016 that a President of the Republic recognized France's responsibility for the destruction of the environment linked to nuclear testing. After carrying out 200 nuclear tests, it is high time that France took care of it and assumed the radioactive legacy that it left – not only in Polynesia, as we propose in this text, but also in Algeria. Again, successive executives are slow to recognize their wrongs and to begin a process of reparation. On this point, it is obviously Mururoa's atoll that is in all heads. Its collapse followed by a radioactive tsunami cannot be an acceptable scenario, a fortiori for the islands adjacent to this former French nuclear test site. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR, Active ens, LT and FI groups]] For all these reasons, the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left will obviously vote in favour of this bill. I invite you, ladies and gentlemen, to do the same.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u4	I call Mr Guillaume Vuilletet.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u5	Between 1966 and 1996, France conducted 193 nuclear tests in the Pacific. Everyone can admit that it took time to recognize their health and environmental consequences. The Morin law, which was passed in 2010, after having quickly shown its limits, has been overhauled and made progress. I am thinking in particular of the abandonment of the negligible risk clause, which has been, in a way, replaced by a scientific and objective view of the situation of the victims. Everyone knows, however, that all these questions have received only draft answers and that there are many sources of frustration. The debates in committee were intense, like the suffering of those who were confronted with these trials and their effects. You have expressed this suffering, Mr rapporteur, by claiming a Polynesian identity that was denied in the follow-up of the trials. Others wanted to speak out to thousands of military and military personnel facing the same realities. Some wanted to make known the anguish of those who suffer or see their children suffer. This anguish, let's say, became angry when the revelations of the report published by the Media Disclosure were brought to our attention. All this is legitimate – as was, moreover, the indignation of President Chassaigne who spoke in committee. I do not forget, however, that the Communist Party sometimes participated in executives who did little at the time about nuclear testing and its consequences. All this to say that neither the Government nor the majority have to receive any lessons in this regard. It is this government that has sanctified the "nuclear debt" – the global allocation of autonomy (GDA) – and I am sure will provide real answers tomorrow to the outcome of the round table called for by the President of the Republic. I also want to see recognition of the work of the French Polynesian government and Edward Fritch. This round table will be held with them. I would also like to take this opportunity to pay tribute to the work of our Polynesian colleagues, Maina Sage and Nicole Sanquer. The reform of the status of autonomy in 2019, of which I was the rapporteur, was a first step. First of all, it had a symbolic and federative dimension, providing for the recognition of the use of French Polynesia for the construction of the nuclear deterrent capacity. A second stage begins with the round table, which will be composed of representatives of the country and the assembly, elected representatives and representatives of the community. So if we can agree on this, it does not mean that we are ready to follow you in the measures you are proposing. I'll talk about a point of method. Of course, no one is thinking of blaming you for a review date that will come to bear on the consultation set up at the request of the President of the Republic. But this approach exists, work has begun, proposals emerge from the workshops. If, for example, the question of taking care of care by the social security fund in Polynesia is in no way negligible, suffer that we are discussing it within a perimeter that goes beyond our mere assembly. The rapporteur's credit for having put the debate will be fully recognised – if that is what concerns you. The work will be carried out at a sustained pace. Therefore, there is no need to compete to find out who will solve the problem first. If the situation is urgent, we can agree that the responses from the round table will arrive at least as quickly as the full review of this bill. On the other hand, we clearly have disagreements about the measures you are proposing. We believe that the committee set up under Article 1 will not be an effective tool. The army has assumed this role and has already carried out this work in large part. France is showing a remarkable effort of transparency in this regard, as many documents are accessible. On the other hand, the question of compensation for the atolls most affected by the tests, such as Hao, will be raised at the round table. For all these reasons, I do not think it necessary to create an additional committee. We also disagree with Article 2, as currently drafted. In particular, we are opposed to the removal of the 1 millisievert threshold, a scientific indicator from which exposure to radioactivity is considered dangerous. It is certainly possible to think that everyone is likely to be affected – and therefore there is no limit. But we can also find it necessary to rely on scientific advice. It's our choice, and it seems to me more protective than more irrational decisions. With regard to transgenerational diseases, we must continue to look for them. We have strengthened the scientific watch. Since April 2021, the Government has commissioned the Institute for Radiation Protection and Nuclear Safety (IRSN) to carry out a careful monitoring of the effects of low doses of ionizing radiation, particularly on offspring. We therefore share your observation without sharing your solutions. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] The work carried out at the moment will go very far, very quickly and in concert. I repeat: if it comes from a finding that we share with you, your solutions do not satisfy us and we will not adopt them. The La République group on the move will vote against your bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u6	Mrs Geraldine Bannier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u7	First of all, I would like to thank you, Mr rapporteur, for the quality of your work, to which we are particularly sensitive because it concerns the health and care of our citizens. The question is extremely important. The President of the Republic also announced that a round table would be held in early summer to re-examine the impact of French nuclear tests on the population and the environment. The State has already taken active action on this issue, notably through the Morin Act of 2010, which gave concrete consideration to the responsibility of the French State in the consequences of nuclear tests in the French Sahara and Polynesia. It has established the Committee for the Compensation of Nuclear Test Victims (CIVEN) to examine whether the conditions for compensation are met. As you know, many developments have come to complement and even change the spirit of the Morin law, with the aim of ensuring, as effectively as possible, access to compensation for the proven victims of these nuclear tests. Thus, in 2013, then in 2017, and finally in 2019, the eligibility criteria for victims were largely relaxed. Since 2018, 186 claims in Polynesia have been accepted, compared to only 11 claims between 2010 and 2017. This increase, recalled earlier by the Minister of Solidarity and Health, is more than substantial. With regard to the pollution of nuclear-test sites, France has continuously carried out operations to measure radiation and de-pollution rates and has requested studies whose accuracy demonstrates our determination to ensure a healthy environment free of pollution and any danger to the population and biodiversity. Between 1996 and 1998, for example, France requested from the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) a reference study on the radiological situation of the atolls of Moruroa and Fangataufa in collaboration with the World Health Organisation (WHO) and the United Nations Scientific Committee. The study showed three results. First, the concentrations of residual radioactive material attributable to nuclear testing are very low in aquatic and terrestrial environments and in the subsoil. Secondly, plutonium, deposited at the bottom of the lagoons by nuclear tests, is irrelevant from the radiological point of view. Thirdly, in the next 100,000 years, the migration of radioactive materials will have a radiologically insignificant volume of activity and an insignificant health impact. Despite the very clear conclusions of this study, France has focused on continuing monitoring of the area and conducting regular studies. Communication with local elected officials and the local population has been at the heart of the measures taken by the authorities. Thus, in 2006, the Ministry of Defence provided the authorities of the country with details of the disposals off Moruroa and the inventory of waste placed in wells. In addition, since 2015, an information commission, set up with the aim of continuing this monitoring, provides an annual report containing the results of daily measurements of atmospheric aerosols and a collection campaign on the three ecosystems – earth, lagoon and ocean – of an atoll. The 2018 report is clear: measured man-made radionuclides are at very low levels, sometimes below the device detection limit, and stable or even decreasing since 1996. [[Mr. Bastien Lachaud exclaimed]] I would like to dwell on one last point. Following the dismantling of the Hao facilities, in 2012 the Ministry of Defence requested IRSN to carry out additional measures to assess the residual pollution and radioactivity. These measures have again established results without appeal: there is no health risk. As a result of these findings, most of the areas previously occupied by the Pacific Experimental Centre (PEC) facilities were eventually dismantled. Lagoon clean-up operations are now complete. Reprocessing of oil-polluted land by a natural process is under way.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u8	Anyway, no problem!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u9	Further studies are still under way and compensation for nuclear test victims is now readily available. Beyond the recognized responsibility, taking charge of the consequences of these tests is for us the essential point. I believe it is real, since, once again, over the last two years, the evolution is concrete. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group. – Mr. Jean-Jacques Bridey also applauds]] Thus, while we obviously remain particularly vigilant with regard to possible developments, we consider that the current situation allows us to meet the legitimate needs of the populations immediately concerned. That is why the Group of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats will vote against this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u10	Mrs Isabelle Santiago has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u11	First of all, I would like to welcome the initiative of the GDR Group and the rapporteur, who put on the agenda this proposal for a law to restore fairness and justice in a case where claims for compensation from victims, such as environmental damage, must be better recognised by the State. It should first be recalled that between 1960 and 1996 France carried out 210 nuclear tests in the Sahara and French Polynesia. Although France ratified the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty in 1998, its consequences did not go away with that ratification. As recognized in 2009 by the Minister of Defence during the debate in the National Assembly on the law on the recognition and compensation of French nuclear tests, contamination has occurred. This is the case in the Sahara, where, among the seventeen tests we conducted, the four aerial tests did not experience any incidents, but where four tests, out of the thirteen carried out in the gallery, caused problems of containment, including the shooting of Beryl of 1 May 1962, which became infamous. This is also the case in Polynesia, where 147 underground tests were carried out without any radioactive dispersion, but where, of the forty-six aerial tests carried out, ten resulted in significant radioactive fallout. The proposed law therefore provides for further progress towards the effective and effective consideration of victims and long-term consequences. Finally, Article 1 deals with taking into account the environmental effects of such nuclear tests, by establishing a major plan for the clearance and treatment of nuclear waste, in an urgent way for the populations concerned and for the environment. It is then the victims that need to be addressed. It is up to us to assure them, through several measures, a better recognition of the harm suffered. First, the removal of the concept of negligible risk allows a broader category of people affected by radiation-induced disease to be compensated. On this point, the Socialist and related group has consistently defended the principle that repeated exposure, even at tiny doses, is harmful. Moreover, with regard to a wider openness to compensation for persons, the Socialists had proposed in previous legislatures the introduction of an early retirement scheme for veterans, since the life expectancy of people with radiation-induced diseases was unfortunately reduced. In accordance with the same logic, not only with regard to the recognition of the damage suffered by spouses and descendants, when members of their families have been affected by radiation-induced diseases, but also with regard to the possibility of claiming compensation from the beneficiaries of a deceased victim, the Socialist and related group is committed to the consideration of all the inevitable social consequences of such diseases, which, as we know, do not concern only direct victims. Finally, it provides for the recognition of the State's financial responsibility for the payment of compensation for social security costs related to radiation-induced diseases, which so far fall under the social security fund of the French Polynesian territory. It is now essential for the French State to bear these costs. On these issues of funding, the Socialist and Related Group has consistently proposed the establishment of a fund to compensate victims of nuclear tests on the model of the asbestos victims' compensation fund, including the establishment of an independent commission. In conclusion, the Socialist and related group will support this bill, which aims to strengthen the reparation of the harm suffered by the population as a result of radiation-induced diseases. It is essential to recognize the suffering of the victims of nuclear tests and to provide them with the means to rebuild themselves. I note, however, that the Minister of Armed Forces, in her speech at this afternoon's sitting, announced that meetings on these issues would be held in early July. We believe that progress can be made on this occasion. [[Applause on the benches of the LT, FI and GDR groups]] Finally, with the Socialist and related group, I greet all our friends in Polynesia.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u12	Mrs Maina Sage has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u13	We are gathered to discuss a bill that particularly affects, but not only, all Polynesians. As I said in committee, this subject concerns us all. As you pointed out, Madam Minister, the thirty-year nuclear testing campaign in Polynesia has enabled France to rise to the highest rank of world powers, to be respected and to be able to count on the international scene today. Unfortunately, as you also know, in this nuclear arms race, which pits all major powers, the United States, Russia, Great Britain and France, our country has also ignored the collateral damage in health, environmental and even societal terms, by engaging in nuclear experiments and pursuing them for 36 years, including thirty in Polynesia from 1960 to 1996. Forty-six airfires led, according to the statements of the Office of the Atomic Energy Commissioner (AEC), to strong radioactive fallout. From 1975 to 1996, 137 underground firings followed each other, no longer causing atmospheric fallout, but damaging the structure of the Moruroa atoll, causing major faults in the firing zones, the disappearance of motus under the waters and rocky collapses from the underwater walls of the atoll, generating waves of considerable size, already at the time, on the surface. According to the CEA, forty-two underground tests will result in leaks of fission products into the air or water of the lagoon. It's 2021, 60 years later. As has already been said, we have taken time to recognize these facts and to deal with their consequences. After all the revelations made in the late 1990s, after the investigations carried out in the early 2000s and, especially after the commission of inquiry of the Assembly of French Polynesia on nuclear tests, the Ministry of Defence declassified many documents until 2014: they revealed the very heavy consequences of these tests, creating a real wave of shock for all Polynesians. In this House, since 2010, we have tried transparantly to repair, at least a little bit, even the health damage by allowing the persons concerned or their beneficiaries to be recognized as victims of these nuclear tests and, I believe, the Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it has not been easy. I have a lot of emotion tonight, because I remember this last sitting on February 9, 2017 devoted to the examination of the bill on real equality overseas (EROM) – I recognize, on all sides of the Chamber, a few colleagues who were there at the time – and this suspension of sittings of more than an hour, in order finally to find a solution by removing the notion of negligible risk. We thought we had come to something and it is true that the CIVEN has recomposed itself, that the compensations have restarted – as we can see from the figures mentioned above – and that this is better, but it is not yet satisfactory, as we know well. And it is here, Madam Minister, that I ask you: it is all the less satisfying that we learned three months ago that everything we had been told, that this exercise of truth conducted since 2006, was truncated! Therefore, understand the distrust, disappointment and even anger of the Polynesians who, while they are also trying to regain the path of reconciliation, have been victims of fallout two to ten times greater than they had been told. Where's the truth, minister?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u14	Yes! No problem!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u15	We need to know the whole truth, we owe it to the Polynesians, we owe it to the French, we owe it to all the victims, including of course our Algerian friends.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u16	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u17	It is time for France, really, to dwell on this subject, to become aware that indeed, for reasons of state, we were sacrificed at the time – there is no other word. The archives available today are explicit, texts show that there has been an exchange on whether or not to prevent consequences, the conclusion being that nothing should be said, because there was then a risk of losing the nuclear testing site. But, ladies and gentlemen, if we have carried out 193 shots as far as possible, 20,000 kilometres away, it is not for nothing! The Polynesians really want to be fully recognized, which requires clear acts of reparation. Only on this condition will we resume the path of trust. I thank my colleague Moetai Brotherson for his initiative, we agree with the statement and I support many of his proposals. It is true that the context is particular because of the revelations I have mentioned and I would like to thank the President of the Republic for having dealt with this subject. We expect a lot of this big date in two weeks, Madam Minister. I understand that the majority will not be able to support this text today because it is a matter of moving forward together at this round table, but certainly not to bury this issue! For us, this round table is a starting point, we are not going to turn the page: on the contrary, we are going to open the page of the whole truth to make all the light on what has happened in order to give justice to all those to whom we owe it. [[Applause on the benches of the LT and GDR groups. – Mr. Nicolas Turquois also applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for being here with us tonight. This issue is not just for Polynesians: it belongs to our common history. We are waiting for answers this evening on the subjects covered by this bill, but it is true that there is not just the health and environmental aspect. My dear colleague Moetai Brotherson, you know that we have always been united on this issue: I hope that you will participate with us in this round table and that we can then, together, build a unanimous solution, with the whole political class, with the associations, with all those who have been working for so many decades so that we can finally rebuild together a path of sustainable development and much more soothed than today.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u18	Mrs Nicole Sanquer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u19	The installation of the nuclear testing centre in 1966 will forever be a break in the history of French Polynesia: it will have permanently changed the society, the environment and the economy of the archipelago. There will be 193 nuclear tests between 1966 and 1996, which have affected and continue to affect Polynesians and Polynesians and their children in their daily lives. The consequences of nuclear tests are a fact suffered by generations of Polynesians, but were they so clean that General de Gaulle guaranteed it? These questions are found as time passes by, and the state, in recent years, has embarked on a process of reparation to the populations affected by the tests – tests that allowed France to be a nuclear power, but which have also left traces in Polynesia. Today, it is up to the State to face this reality and finally to fulfil its duty of reparation. The involvement of French Polynesia in the construction of the nuclear deterrence policy has been recognized in Article 6-1 of the Organic Law on the Autonomy Status of French Polynesia, and this contribution must form the basis for strong acts. Thus, on the financial side, the creation by the State of a global allocation for economic development (DGDE), allocated to the economic conversion of our country for an amount of 18 billion, transformed since then into three separate allocations, will have been the strong act that has benefited the whole of our community. In my personal capacity, I had the opportunity, together with other Members of Parliament and senators, to participate in the commission provided for in section 113 of the EROM Act, a commission which resulted in a particularly detailed report: it would be incomprehensible that the preconceptions made then remain at the stage of pious wishes. The bill before us now corresponds to the very essence of our assembly: the power to change things, in this case by facilitating the right to compensation for the victims of nuclear testing. This debate is an opportunity to convince our colleagues of the sacrifice of our people, but this parliamentary initiative does not exempt you, ladies and gentlemen, from a constant presence in the work that is regularly taking place on the subject, whether it is the Rule 113 Committee or the so-called high-level round table. The latter gives rise to such powerful hopes in French Polynesia that the announcements that will come out of it will have to be up to date. I come to the articles of the bill. I fully agree with Article 1, which provides for the establishment of a committee to set up a programme for the clean-up of atolls, because it is a question of knowing how to clean contaminated land and how to manage polluted waste. These fundamental questions require careful reflection and the introduction of a method. Article 2 also presents real advances on the consideration of transgenerational radiation-induced diseases and in particular on the recourse of the beneficiaries. I had tabled three amendments to enrich this text, but two were unfortunately declared inadmissible. The establishment of a multi-annual research programme to examine the transmission of transgenerational radiation-induced diseases – a recurrent demand from associations – does not, however, meet with the State. If the State considers that there is no transmission, that it proves it by allowing a scientific study on the subject so that the truth is made. And then why lay down time limits for appeals for those entitled? The reparation of the sacrifices of the Polynesians must not be limited in time. My only acceptable amendment is to award an honorary medal for nuclear test veterans. You will answer, Madam Minister, that he is satisfied with the decree of 29 January, but the medal of national defence with staple "nuclear tests" does not fully meet the demands of the associations. The workers in Moruroa and Fangataufa are calling for a specific distinction of recognition of the nation, which would open up to them a better treatment of their health costs and a better accompaniment of the care of the veterans of the nuclear tests. This bill deals with the victims of nuclear testing, and that is quite legitimate. As a Polynesian, I can only support its provisions that will facilitate and speed up the victims' efforts to open up their rights to compensation, but I would also like to remind the State that the contribution of French Polynesia continues, that many Polynesians engage in the French army every year and are nevertheless victims of unfair treatment because deprived of the INSMET, the compensation for the installation of the ultramarine military. French Polynesia has contributed to France being a nuclear power and Polynesian soldiers fight every day in its armed forces: will it take a long time for the soldier of a Pacific community to be recognized as a true French soldier? [[Applause on the SOC, LT and GDR benches. – Ms. Maina Sage also applauds]] In conclusion, I would point out that our independent UDI group will vote in favour of this bill so that the demands of the Polynesians can be heard at the beginning of the round table.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u20	Mr Benoit Simian has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u21	Grandson of a soldier who has served France, in this case French Polynesia, I want to express here, on behalf of the Libertés et territoires Group, my full, sincere and unwavering support for the fight that the Polynesians, our compatriots, have been leading for decades to ensure that justice is done to them. Is there more violence than fighting against one's own country for justice and reparation? However, this is what the Polynesians, and also a few metropolitans, have endured for at least twenty years following the 193 nuclear experiments carried out by the French State for almost thirty years in French Polynesia. In 2019, it was recognised in this Chamber that the French State has a nuclear debt towards French Polynesia. This recognition was an additional step, after the Morin law in 2010 and the EROM law in 2017, towards the recognition of the damage caused. Yet it is still far from sufficient because Polynesian families suffer the disastrous consequences on their health: how many cancers, how many deaths have followed? It is known that nearly 150,000 people have been in direct contact with these trials. How, then, can we continue to deliver the same speech, even if we welcome progress, as has been said by my colleagues Maina Sage and Nicole Sanquer? For so long, the correlation between nuclear testing and the deterioration of the health of Polynesians – sometimes metropolitans who participated in the tests – has been real. It's true they weren't wearing masks. This text also addresses another fundamental subject, that of the environment, of the protection of our land, whereas today Moruroa and Fangataufa are cracked atolls, probably still radioactive in some places. We don't even know how to fix the problem. The proposed law pushes the idea of a clean-up programme: support this political initiative as it goes in the right direction! Being in the third place of the nine world nuclear powers has a price, which Algerians, Polynesians and our military know. France must face up to the legitimate demands of its peoples to be recognized as victims of nuclear testing and to be compensated at a decent level, although, as has been said earlier, much has been done in recent years. Let us not forget that our sovereignty, our independence, our international influence, we owe it to people sacrificed! Jacques Chirac understood that. Today, we are given the opportunity to reach out, to stop this fight against oblivion and to repair a little more this wound opened fifty years ago. Within the national representation, the deputies of French Polynesia are the representatives of these victims and injured persons. Let us not refer the subject of nuclear testing to an umpteenth round table – which is still to be greeted – to an umpteenth Theodule committee dear to General de Gaulle, outside the walls of the Palais-Bourbon. Our parliament can show today that among the representatives of the people, we can feel compassion and solidarity – although this remains to be proved, in view of the debates we had this morning on the deconjugation of the adult disability allowance (AAH). [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group. – Mrs Jeanine Dubie and Mr Moetai Brotherson, rapporteur, also applaud]] Let us not miss this opportunity to raise us collectively and vote in favour of this text, for your "fenua" dear colleague, and for France.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u22	Mr Bastien Lachaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u23	This bill aims to reduce the persistent injustices suffered by tens of thousands of victims of the consequences of the nuclear tests carried out in Polynesia and Algeria, by dealing with the consequences of these tests on people and the environment. Of the 150,000 civilian and military personnel who took part in the 210 French trials conducted in the Algerian Sahara and Polynesia between 1960 and 1996, only a handful received compensation. Admittedly, progress has been made with the Morin Act of 2010 which created the ICVEN, which is responsible for the compensation of civilian and military victims of the consequences of nuclear tests. But, as the investigation of the NGO Disclosure revealed last March, the CIVEN is not up to the stakes: it is an understatement. In fact, this committee was built as an impassable wall. It rejects claims for compensation massively, rarely invoking its decisions and without making its opinions public. This leads to absurd situations where two identical cases can receive opposite answers. Worse: To legitimize its action in the face of criticism, CIVEN lied about the decisive question of measuring the levels of radioactivity received by the populations. The Committee claimed that its calculations had been validated in 2010 by the International Atomic Energy Agency, a reference in this regard. The Disclose investigation showed that this was not true: IAEA-mandated scientists never had access to the source data, which was still classified as a secret defence at the time. They were therefore only able to verify calculations on the basis of very fragmented, and often false, data. Thus, until 2019, the number of Polynesian civilians – i.e., outside the military and business providers – having been offered an offer of compensation amounts to sixty-three. The improvements made by the EROM law in 2017 relate only to applications submitted by veterans of the army and agents of the Office of the Atomic Energy Commissioner. The environmental consequences of nuclear testing in Polynesia are ignored by current devices. However, it is known that faults caused by the tests have arisen in the areas where radioactive waste is stored. A major plan for the clean-up and treatment of nuclear waste is urgently needed in Polynesia. Even greater opacity prevails over the 17 trials conducted in Algeria between 1960 and 1967. In the context of the end of the war, the two sides did not negotiate a clause that would have forced France to decontaminate the polluted sites. The latter, whose location is often secret, are not subject to radiological monitoring or public awareness campaigns on health risks. On this point, this bill cannot go beyond the explanatory memorandum, since, unlike Algeria, France is not a signatory to the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u24	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u25	... which entered into force in January 2021 and clearly mentions the obligations of the nuclear testing countries. Nevertheless, our country has a moral responsibility to provide assistance, as Algeria requests, to assist Algerian victims of the trials and to restore the environment. There is friendship between the French and Algerian peoples, united by history. It is also a question of refusing that State reason can be used to flout equality in law in our country. The issue at stake is not nuclear deterrence. Whatever its opinion on this issue, it must be borne in mind that allowing all nuclear test victims to assert their rights will not jeopardize our defence. The resolution of the environmental consequences of nuclear tests is, on the contrary, a condition of our security. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group. – Mr Moetai Brother, rapporteur, also applauds]] The injustices suffered by the victims of nuclear tests for decades are unacceptable. The remaining threat posed by the unresolved environmental consequences of these tests is equally so. We can only support this bill, which, if adopted and implemented, will improve access to rights for tens of thousands of people and our security for all.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u26	The general discussion is closed. I call Mr Moetai Brotherson, rapporteur of the Committee on National Defence and the Armed Forces.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u27	I would like to thank all the colleagues who have taken the floor, and to return to the statements made by our ministers, which I welcome once again. I don't know if you've been through any files or whether you've actually read, like me, the IAEA report. As our colleague Lachaud pointed out, at no time does the IAEA validate the measures that have been taken for the simple reason that the Agency's experts have not had access to the sources. They simply checked the results calculated from the data provided by ECA, but were unable to verify the measurements.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u28	Exactly! The rapporteur is right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u29	Secondly, you tell us that all the studies that exist, particularly those of INSERM, show that there is no transgenerational transmission. However, we have heard experts from INSERM, and that is not at all what they have told us. They told us that the studies that exist show that, in contexts that are not that of Polynesia, there is no generational transmission. We asked them whether it would be desirable to put in place a specific methodology in Polynesia to conduct transgenerational studies. Their answer is clear: of course. As far as millisievert is concerned, it is not a scientific criterion: it is an administrative criterion. I cannot let it be said that, since the introduction of the millisievert, the number of accepted files has increased, it is a shocking counter-truth. I'm not the one who said it, it's the director of CIVEN, who we auditioned. We asked him what the main reason for rejecting the applications was: he replied that it was the millisievert. The increase in the number of indemnified cases is the result of the withdrawal of the negligible risk and the vote of additional means granted to the ICVEN: this is certainly not due to the millisievert. While the state and the army have so many brilliant scientists, it is not clear that two people from Disclosure were able to demonstrate in such a clear way what could not have been established for years: as my colleague, Maina Sage, pointed out, we were exposed to doses two to ten times higher than what has always been announced to us, far beyond a millisievert. The Polynesians who are watching us at the moment – there are many – cannot hear this kind of argument. I come to the question of indirect victims. How are you going to explain that, in all compensation systems – for asbestos, for victims of terrorism and I am passing by – indirect victims are always taken into account, but that is not the case for victims of nuclear tests? I welcome the decision of the President of the Republic to hold a round table on the consequences of nuclear testing in Polynesia, but allow me to have doubts. Emmanuel Macron wants to be the champion of the environment, with a wonderful slogan: "Make our planet great again"... with the exception of Moruroa! We had COP21 then COP22, etc. There was also the Citizen Climate Convention.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u30	Oh, yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u31	For months, 150 people gathered more than sixty times to work and make 149 proposals. The President assured us: they had to be taken over without a filter. Ask the members of the Citizen Climate Convention: Have they been heard? On 1 and 2 July, the round table decided by the President of the Republic will be held. Do we have to think that Jupiter's grace will unlock everything in two days? I have doubts. Again, this bill has been worked on for many months. It is true that the calendars are rushing and that no one, in any case, not me, had seen the inquiry come from Disclose, but one did not exclude the other. I arrived in the metropolis on June 3 and since then I have been receiving messages from Polynesians asking me if I will participate in the round table. When I ask them for their opinion, they answer: "If your bill is not passed, what's the point? » [[Applause on the benches of the GDR, FI and LT groups. – Nicole Sanquer also applauds]] That's my position. It may evolve in the coming days, but believe me, the Polynesians are watching us tonight, those who are alive and those who are no longer there, and history will judge.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u32	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u33	Mr President, I understand the emotion and sensitivity of the subject. You're right to point that out, I don't know Polynesia. However, I can only be sensitive to the speech of the Polynesian parliamentarian you are. You express the distress and strong expectations of the Polynesian population, and you are totally legitimate to express this word. Nevertheless, I am also sensitive – sorry to say so – to the facts of science that help progress. We have seen it well for several months in the country and throughout the world, sometimes there is emotion and sometimes there is science. Sometimes emotion and science meet, but this is not the case. Mr President, you want to remove the threshold of a millisievert. Your colleagues may be led to believe that this threshold is high and that by removing it, more people will benefit from recognition of the ionizing radiation they have suffered. But what does science tell us? That a millisievert is the acceptable dose released, for a year, by the body of a pregnant woman. I am not talking about the twelve millisieverts which concern the doses released by workers who are in work. I repeat this clearly so that the national representation can hear it well: a millisievert does not represent an intense exposure to ionizing radiation; This is the equivalent of radiation naturally released over a year by a pregnant woman. Removing this threshold would have a very unfortunate consequence: we can no longer dissociate what is or does not arise from exposure to ionizing radiation. I consider that the remedy would be worse than the evil, since it would result in loss of data and the impossibility of indemnifying files. You are right to point out that the adoption of this threshold did not result in an explosion in the number of validated compensation files. It's a whole set of measures. [[Exclaims on a few benches of the GDR and FI groups]] Mr President, like you, I participated in a nearly three-hour video conference with the Polynesian authorities, during which I asked the representatives of CIVEN and INSERM to set out in detail the conclusions of a report which I, like you, have taken note of. The independent scientific authorities that we had undertaken, at the request of the Polynesian authorities, outlined what we know and what we do not know, and made recommendations. I am sorry to have to assume the role of the one who tries to put reason in the midst of emotion. I do not deny this emotion, which I know very strongly, but we must consider the impact of the measures we are taking. You say you've met scientists who didn't know if, in Polynesia, ionizing radiation would have transgenerational effects. But it is not the place of exposure that counts for the possibility of developing tumour cells and cancers. Whether you are in Polynesia, Algeria, the United States or any other part of the world, if you are exposed to radiation that can cause cancer, the consequences will be similar, both on you and, if such consequences exist, on future generations. It must be noted that all studies, not only French, say the same thing. The independent collective expertise conducted by INSERM for seven years, the work of the United Nations Scientific Committee, the report of the Institute of Radiation Protection and Nuclear Safety – we will continue the effort and carry out an inquiry by the IRSN to update any new developments – all the scientific studies that we have at this stage, carried out by independent scientific committees, go in the same direction. You ask us, in this bill, to recognize a phenomenon that no scientific study carried out for more than twenty years by serious international authorities such as the United Nations has been able to demonstrate, if only in an embryonic way. Forgive me for setting the record straight! This does not mean that we must not change things, on the contrary; But we do. Since the Morin law, which you were right to recall, we have set thresholds, we have increased the number of cases processed. I recall that 94% of the cases that have resulted in compensation have been processed since 2018, a sign that things are progressing. The position of the French State is unambiguous: if real health sequelae are demonstrated, we will have to be there, it is our responsibility. But we must not set aside scientific rigour, because no one will win it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u34	I now call the articles of the bill in the text originally before the House, since the committee has not adopted any text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u35	On Article 1, I am seized by the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland of a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. I call Mr Guillaume Vuilletet.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u36	I would like to give the general principle that we will follow in our positions. This will save us time and allow the GDR group to have more of its texts reviewed. This is the rule of the game that we are trying to respect, in good intelligence with opposition groups. The Group of the Republic on the move is opposed to this text. We will therefore vote against all the amendments and articles, with a small regret for the amendment by our colleague Nicole Sanquer.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u37	I put Article 1 to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u38	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 75 Number of votes cast 73 Absolute majority 37 For adoption 31 Against 42
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u39	Mrs Nicole Sanquer has the floor to support Amendment No 2 on the additional Rule after Rule 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u40	We propose inserting the following article: "Honorary recognition is established for nuclear veterans recognized as victims. As I explained in the general discussion, this amendment at the request of the associations, in particular those of former workers at the Moruroa and Fangataufa nuclear sites. Sacrifice must be recognized, honours must be given to those who are now suffering the consequences of nuclear testing. The amendment proposes the creation of an honourary recognition of the nation for the trial veterans, which would provide them with better coverage of their health expenses and better support for care.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u41	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u42	Personally, I am very much in favour of the amendment. Yes, in January 2021, the "nuclear test" agrofee was created at the national defence medal, but the state can go further. For example, consideration can be given to broadening the criteria for awarding the recognition title of the nation. Bills have been introduced to this effect in both the National Assembly and the Senate. One of them, just two years ago, was even signed by one of your former colleagues ministers, just before the President of the Republic appointed him a member of the Constitutional Council. The amendment opens the way for greater recognition of the commitment and sacrifice of those, mostly metropolitan, who have left Brittany, the Centre or the Var to participate in the great work of France on the other side of the world.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u43	The Minister of the Armed Forces has the floor to give the Government's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u44	I am pleased to recall that, in fact, a decree issued on 30 January 2021 gives an honorary medal to the civilian and military personnel who participated in the French nuclear tests in Polynesia. It is an exceptional national defence medal with a "nuclear tests" staple. This commitment had been made by Ms. Geneviève Darrieussecq to the associations and reiterated before the national representative. This medal will be awarded, at their request, to persons who justify by any means having participated effectively in missions related to the development of the nuclear deterrent force, in the areas and during the periods defined in article 2 of the Act of 5 January 2010. Thus, all the periods during which the nuclear tests took place and all the territories concerned will be taken into account. We also ensured that the application procedures were simplified to facilitate the award of the medal. It is a testimony of the nation's legitimate recognition to all those who, without exception, have contributed to the building of the nuclear deterrent force, the cornerstone of France's security. For this reason, unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u45	Mr Didier Le Gac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u46	Minister, my constituency of Brest, where you come often and where you are welcomed with pleasure, is very marked by the national navy's defence activities. Brest is the headquarters of the strategic ocean force (FOST), with Long Island and its nuclear spacecraft launchers (SNLE) which, as you recalled, assure the naval component of our strategic nuclear force. To achieve this very high level of deterrence, generations of sailors have been involved in the development of our nuclear force. Some of them were mobilized for aerial testing in Polynesia between 1966 and 1974, and for underground testing until 1996. Tonight, as we debate this bill dedicated to the repair of the consequences of nuclear tests, I want to pay tribute first to the civilian populations of Polynesia who have been exposed to the waste of these experiments. I would also like to recall, with all the necessary measure and dignity, the situation of the military, State sailors, present in the various workshops, ships or units in the area at that time. I frequently meet these former sailors in associations such as the National Federation of Marine Officers (FNOM) or the Association of Nuclear Test Veterans (AVEN), and I have been able to measure with them the progress made under the Morin law on compensation for victims, and the progressive recognition of radiation-induced diseases. However, everything is not yet satisfactory and this recognition can still be improved. That is why I thank you, Minister, Minister, for pointing out that you were aware of the impact of nuclear testing. Your presence at both meetings is a testament to the Government's interest in this very sensitive issue. Mr Brotherson, we must participate in the round table organized by the Élysée. We must go there with demand and conviction, but we must be present, because there is nothing worse than the empty chair policy. In fact, Madam Minister, a gesture not of appeasement, but of confidence would also be to invite to this round table, beyond the representatives of the scientific community and the state, associations of former sailors such as FNOM or AVEN.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u47	On Amendments Nos 8 and 9 and on Article 2, I am seized by the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland of requests for public ballots. Votes are announced in the National Assembly. The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendments Nos 8 and 9, which can be presented together.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u48	The first is a clarification amendment, which does not require debate. The second is also intended to clarify the concept of reparation by mentioning the treatment of medical expenses. That seems essential to me. A nuclear test victim who develops, for example, stomach cancer, if she is lucky enough to survive, remains ill for the rest of her life. Until the end of her life, she'll have to take care of herself. Some of these costs are now unduly covered by Polynesia's social security fund, but many others remain at the expense of the sick.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u49	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u50	Amendment No 8 corrects a drafting error and is therefore in the right direction. But out of consistency with the Government's unfavorable opinion on the entire article, I am against both amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u51	Mr Fabien Gouttefarde has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u52	The world is looking at science increasingly sceptical and distrustful. I wish in the land of Descartes, we could trust science. For two years of my professional life, from 2011 to 2013, I had the opportunity to investigate claims for the ICVEN, on behalf of the Ministry of Armed Forces, just before the ICVEN became an independent administrative authority. At that time, ladies and gentlemen – I am not happy about it! – the files had a rejection rate of 99%. It's huge, but what was the reason for that rate? These releases were based on scientific criteria. Since 2010, ministers, including Hervé Morin, and their administration, have been very kind and willing to compensate the victims.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u53	It's fundamental!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u54	[[Exclaims on the banks of the GDR group and on a few benches of the FI group]] But let's make our accounts: the people who file today are 70, 80 or 90 years old: they suffer from radiation-induced diseases, but also from cancers that you can develop very well because you have smoked your whole life. The files were therefore refused because the disease could also be attributed to the hygiene of life. Few were able to prove significant exposure to radiation. [[Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq protested]] A finding, to finish. Because the scientific criteria and the rate of compensation were not appropriate, what has been done in the last ten years? The scientific criteria have been changed. Article 2 of the bill pushes this logic to its climax. That is why I can only oppose it. In fact, the members of CIVEN, recognized scientists – cardiologists, epidemiologists, radiologists... – all resigned in 2017, considering that their speech was no longer listened to. I would like us to stay in the field of reason. I shall therefore vote against the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u55	Mrs Maina Sage has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u56	Unfortunately, science has also been variable in geometry! Mr. Gouttefarde, since you worked for the Ministry of Armed Forces – if I understood correctly... –,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u57	Yes, that's it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u58	...I invite you to review all the reports of the follow-up committees chaired by the various health ministers over the last ten years. You will then see what scientific debate has taken place and how scientists themselves have questioned the equation used to calculate the negligible risk. I am certainly not a scientist, but I have seen science and calculations evolve.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u59	Give us the calculations!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u60	I saw how, little by little, we made the light. You want us to talk about science? But then explain why the ECA documents released in 2006 are different from those released in 2014.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u61	It's magic!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u62	They show that the fallout is ten times greater than what was said. In these circumstances, Mr. Gouttefarde, forgive us for doubting the scientific results we are opposed to! As for the threshold of 1 millisievert, it raises questions. I do not question the sincerity of the members of the ICVEN, nor their qualifications. Their mission was to find a solution on the basis of a learned calculation. We ourselves, as politicians, together with the associations and the various health ministers, have witnessed their work. I can understand that they eventually resigned, but it's not just for the reasons you mentioned. Today, we are talking about a new threshold of radioactivity dangerous to health, but this is the threshold used in the civilian for people exposed in a predictable way in their work, because they handle certain tools, which has nothing to do with accidental exposure for eight years. This issue is also being debated at the international level. I invite you, Minister, to consider the conclusions of INSERM on this matter.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u63	I did it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u64	INSERM considers it questionable to try to set a threshold below 100 millisieverts, because we are talking about low doses.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u65	Mrs. Sage, please close.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u66	[[Applause on the benches of the LT and FI groups]] However, the knowledge we have about low doses is still very limited. Believe me, Minister, I've read the report of INSERM!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u67	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u68	Let me remind the national representative that during this debate I have repeatedly recognized the essential contribution of French Polynesia to the construction of our nuclear deterrence. It would be completely irrelevant to consider that there is no collective responsibility for the consequences of repeated nuclear tests that have taken place under the conditions that you have recalled, in terms of environmental, health and social aspects. It is precisely for this reason – and I solemnly want to say so before you – that the President of the Republic has called for a constructive dialogue with all the stakeholders in this long history. It is therefore important that, in the course of the round table – of which I have no doubt it will allow constructive dialogue – all those who consider themselves to have played a role in this long history, or to have suffered the consequences. I would also like to clarify one point that I did not address in my opening statement: among the associations invited to the round table are the Association of Nuclear Test Veterans, the AVEN, and the FNOM, in accordance with the request made earlier by Mr Le Gac. You will have understood, with these clarifications, that the Minister of Solidarity and Health and I share the concerns expressed this evening. We listened with great empathy to your various interventions. Beyond the measures taken year after year – perhaps too late indeed – it is time for us to address, in serenity, the question of redressing the consequences of nuclear tests. It is a recognition that we owe to the Polynesians, who have allowed France to be a nuclear-weapon State, a sovereign State. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] That's what I wanted to say in front of all of you, in a very respectful way.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u69	I put Amendment No. 8 to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u70	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 79 Number of votes cast 79 Absolute majority 40 For adoption 32 Against 47
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u71	I put to the vote Amendment No. 9.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u72	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 79 Number of votes cast 79 Absolute majority 40 For adoption 32 Against 47
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u73	I put Rule 2 to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u74	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 80 Number of votes cast 80 Absolute majority 41 For adoption 32 Against 48
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u75	Oh!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u76	As all the articles and amendments to the additional article have been rejected, the bill is also rejected. The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u77	I thank all those who have spoken this evening in this House. Parliament is the place for the debate. This is where the law must be written. This is in any case my conception: I was elected deputy of the French Republic and my role is exercised within the National Assembly, and not in corridors, however prestigious they may be.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u78	You talked about emotion and science, minister. I am certainly not a radiologist, but I am a computer engineer: I have a small Cartesian fonds, too. Believe me, my analyses are based on reason. Of course, the affect permeates my speech, because I am a Polynesian, because members of my family have died from the consequences of nuclear testing – all Polynesian families have an uncle, a grandfather, a near death from the consequences of nuclear testing. That did not prevent me from reading all available scientific reports, such as those of IAEA and INSERM. I have not, like Mr. Gouttefarde, worked at CIVEN, I am not a representative of CIVEN; I am a representative of the Polynesians, representative of the people. [[Applause on all benches]] Thank you again to all those who stayed until this late hour. The debate is not closed. As Maina said, we cannot turn the page: we will continue to write the book that will remain for history. Mauruuru!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u79	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u80	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u81	The next item is the debate on the proposal for a law on emergency measures for intermittent employment (No 4138, 4238).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u82	Mrs Elsa Faucillon, rapporteur of the Committee on Social Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u83	I am not sure, given the time, that we can go so far as to examine the sections of the bill. In any event, I think I know about the outcome of the vote to which they will be subject. Nevertheless, it was essential for the GDR Group to be the spokesperson for those who have been trying to make themselves heard – and understand – with you for many months. This bill seeks to introduce emergency measures for intermittent employment; It is the result of work carried out with many of them and with them, with union representatives accompanying them, but also with parliamentarians from the two chambers, coming from different groups. We have mobilized by seeing the reform of unemployment insurance coming, so that we can fight it together. The health and economic crisis we are experiencing has not spared anyone, but we know that some key sectors have been particularly affected: accommodation, catering, events, tourism and culture are, by their very nature, much more affected than others. In these and other sectors, 2.3 million workers, most of whom are insecure, are the most forgotten of the emergency measures taken during the first confinement. While employees in stable employment have benefited – and this is quite normal – from long-term support measures thanks to the introduction of partial activity, employees in discontinuous employment remain for the most part and still today without accompanying measures. This is the case, for example, of someone I know well, who is called Xavier and who is a hotel, training and trade master. He was employed for many years under a fixed-term contract (CDDU), earning 33000 euros in 2019; He is now without sufficient resources to live and live in and is threatened with expulsion. I can also tell you about Yolanda, a lecturer's guide, who was also employed in a fixed-term contract and who earned 18,000 euros in 2019; Since June 2020, her entitlement to benefits has ended and she is therefore no longer earning anything. None of them was able to benefit from the exceptional premium that you introduced, which arrived too late and the amount of which is in any case quite insufficient. To date, only 600,000 intermittents have received at least once this exceptional premium, which has averaged 350 euros per month. In addition to the low level of this aid, a significant number of job-intermittents were excluded, either because the level of their income was considered too high – we are talking about 900 euros – or because they were unable to meet the multiple conditions established to benefit from it. I will give you an example to illustrate these eligibility conditions. The calculation of the duration of activity required to receive the premium was fixed in days and not in hours of work; This is often the characteristic of those who chain short contracts: their working time is calculated in hours rather than days. This is in particular the case of a lecturer guide who worked 1352 hours but only over 112 days; She could not benefit from the aid, since she had to have worked 138 days to reach it. So she had to return her apartment and go back to live with her parents. Millions of French and French were violently affected by the economic crisis; The increase in redundancies has led to a significant increase in the number of unemployed, and the number of people seeking food aid – as you all know – has risen by 45%. However, it is in this context, with more than 10 million poor and rising unemployment, that the Government has chosen to implement its profoundly unjust reform of unemployment insurance, which will penalise all French and French people but more particularly the precarious, the intermittent employment of which a majority is now at the end of their rights. I know that you are saying everywhere, Madam Minister, that your reform will not affect rights or reduce them, but the impact studies carried out by UNEDIC are alarming: in the first year of the reform, they tell us, more than a million jobseekers will suffer a reduction in the amount of their allowances; 190000 people will see the opening of their rights delayed by one year or more; For the remaining 285,000, the average delay will be five months. In fact, the representative of Pôle Emploi told us herself, during her hearing: as of 1 July 2021, a large number of unemployed people will see their rights reduced. Let us hope that the response of the Council of State, which we should receive within a few hours, will ensure that this does not happen. In order to justify this aberrant reform, the Government invokes its determination to combat the explosion of short contracts, which has been observed for some 10 years. I heard this morning, Madam Minister, that you were not talking about ten years, but about fifteen years.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u84	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u85	You again evoked an explosion of 250% while elsewhere you spoke of a multiplication by 2.5, which would then correspond to 150% increase! A 250% increase is not equivalent to a 2.5-fold increase. You have been trained in the great schools, I think you know how to handle the numbers: since those you give cannot be cross-checked with any of those provided by the various studies on the subject...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u86	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u87	[[Minister protested]] ...is that you decide to voluntarily use false numbers. Moreover, to claim that too much protective unemployment insurance would be at the origin of the multiplication of these contracts is a decoy. According to UNEDIC, for example, it is rather the structure of the labour market, the growing tertiarisation of the economy or tax exemptions on low wages that contribute to the proliferation of short contracts; That's what we have to work on. The diagnosis on which you rely, according to which unemployment insurance "would have become a machine for making precariousness" and would be responsible for a "explosion" of short contracts, is thus totally false. And if one really had to look for a causal link between the two, it would even seem that it is rather inverse: data from the Central Agency of Social Security Agencies show that the share of contracts of less than a month in hirings increased mainly in the decade 2000, when the eligibility rules were the strictest. The reforms of unemployment insurance in 2014 and especially in 2017 have sought to gradually abolish the specific rules applicable to these intermittent employees in employment. Irrespective of the reasons which could be invoked at the time, the lack of legibility of the system prior to the promotion of rechargeable rights, the finding is now without appeal: the intermittents of employment suffer a double penalty. In addition to working in precarious jobs with atypical and often low-paying hours, they will again undergo and undergo a reduction in their unemployment rights as part of the planned regressive reform. As you know, the GDR group has fought against the Labour Law...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u88	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u89	... because it made the labour market more flexible and insecure for workers; in a previous niche, we have tabled a bill against part-time work which your majority has kindly rejected; We fought against the imposition of the CDIs on mission and construction sites. Therefore, I tell you very quietly: we have no lessons to learn from you about the misuse of short contracts. We fight against the flexibilization of work and above all against its insecureness, and it is a fight that we wage with pugnacity. But here we are talking about employees for whom discontinuous employment is often the norm: in their sectors, indefinite contracts are not conceivable by nature.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u90	You can't say that!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u91	We could talk about the lecturers' guides; Explain to me how to get them hired in CDI. But even if you think you can promise that within five years these people will be hired in CDI, it is not up to them or them to pay for the explosion of short contracts – if there is any explosion. It's up to the companies to pay! In the recovery plans, however, you have decided to give them billions and billions of euros, unconditionally.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u92	Right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u93	You are bragging about introducing a bonus-malus, but you decided not to apply it until 2022, that is, after the reform of unemployment insurance, which takes effect in July 2021. But it is first of all those who make sure that the precarious is organized that must be attacked, instead of making the precarious pay for their precariousness! I know that the objective of having intermittents in catering, hospitality and event jobs recognized is widely shared, since this bill is largely based on that of our colleague Jean-François Mbaye, co-signed by Members of Parliament sitting on all benches of our assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u94	They're not here!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u95	More than 80 Members of the LaREM Group co-signed it a few months ago – about ten of them were present in the Social Affairs Committee; I note that they are about to vote against a bill that they approved a few months earlier. It had never been placed on the agenda; It is now done and we will finally be able to examine it. I would simply point out, for those colleagues who do not know, that our bill has two parts: one is designed to open the exceptional premium to all intermittents in employment; the other, of a more structural nature, intends to restore a specific unemployment insurance scheme for these workers. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR, SOC, LT and FI groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, I think we need to hear the warnings of intermittents in employment. Many of them are in great distress; We must provide them with exceptional financial assistance to get their heads out of the water, but above all we must guarantee them a permanent protective regime. We were all happy to be able to return to the terrace or to the dark rooms, family or friends, but these sectors of activity are nothing without the women and men who contribute to their lives. Let's not forget them!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u96	The Minister for Labour, Employment and Integration has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u97	I thank the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left, and in particular the rapporteur Elsa Faucillon, for giving us the opportunity to recall our strategy to combat job insecurity. I fully agree with your observation that the use of micro-contracts has exploded. Some figures are particularly eloquent; I suggest that you listen carefully to them, Madam rapporteur, because I will repeat those I always give.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u98	These are the 2007 figures!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u99	The number of CSDs of less than one month has increased by 250% over the past 15 years. We must start from reality; To build politics is better! The median duration of CSDs has increased in 20 years from 20 days to only 5 days; the recurring hiring of employees for half a day, a day or two, has become the routine mode of operation of a number of sectors. This addiction to micro-contracts creates anxiety and insecurity for employees; It reduces their access to social rights and I would even say that it is ineffective for employers who do not have well-trained or well-integrated employees in their company. However, I totally diverge as to the response to this confinement of certain workers in precarious conditions. If it were implemented, your proposal for a law would only encourage this logic by keeping the employees concerned in the precariousness of short contracts without empowering employers. That is not the way the Government wants to take. We disagree with your proposal, because it goes against the objectives it aims to achieve – hell is paved with good intentions, rapporteur. Article 1e provides for State aid for intermittent employment and temporary workers paid for six months to compensate for the loss of income during the health crisis. I will not insist on the fact that the article only covers temporary and seasonal workers, without taking into account employees in conventional CDDs or CDDs of use. During this crisis, the Government, contrary to what you say, did not ignore the employees and job seekers. We made the promise to the French and French that no one would be left at the edge of the road, and we kept that promise.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u100	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u101	We have protected the employment of millions of employees through partial activity; we have extended the right to compensation for job seekers arriving at the end of their entitlements; Finally, we have guaranteed a minimum income of 900 euros for precarious workers. All of these measures represent a State commitment of almost €45 billion. I will go into more detail on each of these aids, but, contrary to what you support, the Government has therefore not left precarious workers unprotected, and your proposal is not a relevant answer.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u102	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u103	As for Article 2, it establishes a specific unemployment benefit scheme for intermittent employment and temporary workers. This new scheme would be financed by a specific contribution opened by Article 3 and introduced by a specific Annex to the Convention with UNEDIC, provided for in Article 4. By recognizing short contracts as the normal method of organisation in these sectors, there is a great risk of sending employers a signal in contradiction with our policy of combating insecurity. What we want is for short contracts to be limited to the strict need for company flexibility. While there is, for example, an incompressible share of short-term contract requirements to enable companies to cope with peaks in activity, we have seen for more than 20 years, however, an explosion in the number of short-term contracts without justifying the development of economic models in the sectors concerned. We owe the workers of this country better! The introduction of a new annex would be totally counterproductive, as you know, since such an annex existed until 2017 and it was the social partners themselves who decided to delete it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u104	Depends on which one!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u105	In addition, your proposal for a law comes in the wrong way. This text is being debated at a time when economic recovery is taking place. Above all, it is surprising that the Members who sign it have given up on the structural causes of the precarious labour market. Indeed, the explanatory memorandum indicates that it is the trades which "impose" by themselves the succession of short-term contracts. But if that were the case, why would Germany or Denmark use these contracts ten and six times less than France? What future, what career prospects do you offer to all these professionals? We cannot resign ourselves to a status quo that is supposed to be insurmountable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u106	That's wonderful!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u107	Contrary to your bill, I do not consider the fragmentation of labour to be fatal, and we have not given up on the excessive use of short contracts. The Government had acted very early and hard to combat insecurity by providing emergency assistance and reforming unemployment insurance. First of all, we have deployed massive support to protect job seekers during the health crisis. From November until the health restrictions are lifted, jobseekers who have reached the end of their entitlement will have been granted an extension of their allowance. This extension of duties was granted to 830000 persons for an amount of more than EUR 3 billion. We have also strengthened the accompanying resources of Pôle Emploi, with 2150 additional recruitments voted in finance law for 2021 – and here I want to pay tribute to the women and men of Pôle Emploi, who perform their public service mission every day. Then, as early as November, we put in place a minimum income guarantee of 900 euros. I would remind you, Madam Member, that the median allowance for employees who have contributed their entire lives is EUR 1000: before claiming that this EUR 900 allowance is nothing, it would be better to put the figures in context. This minimum income guarantee of 900 euros for workers on short-term contracts who, as a result of the health crisis, are no longer able to work enough to recharge their rights was extended until the end of August, which will have supported the income of 600,000 precarious workers, for a total amount mobilised between November and August of 1.3 billion euros. And, honourable Member, when you talk about a worker who would have worked more than 1300 hours in 112 days, I invite you to look at the labour code, which limits the daily working hours. There are texts that protect workers in our country! Finally, our reform of unemployment insurance aims to put an end to a system that encourages the excessive use of short contracts, i.e. CDS of less than one month, and locks hundreds of thousands of workers in this alternation between short contracts and periods of unemployment. This precariousness can lead to a lower ability to negotiate their working conditions, whether in terms of their working hours or remuneration, and to less access to housing, credit or training. So I'm surprised that's the model you were defending. To this precariousness is linked a very strong subordination. These employees are particularly vulnerable to economic reversal. As everyone has seen, people in seasonal or precarious employment were the first victims of the economic and health crisis. By imposing on employers a bonus-malus which will apply from 1 July and by amending the rules for calculating the daily reference wage, we want to break this spiral of precariousness and encourage employers to offer better quality contracts. [[Ms MathildePanotprotestte]] At the same time, we want to put an end to an injustice in the way unemployment benefits are calculated, which favours alternations between periods of inactivity and work. In the new system, the job seekers concerned will be better oriented and accompanied by better jobs. Anyone who is close to employment and who can easily chain short contracts will be encouraged to work more often or longer; the person who is further away from employment will be protected for a longer period of time and will be able to use this time to train, in particular thanks to the unprecedented commitment of this majority to training. In summary, we have built, in consultation, a system that encourages the use of CDI or long CDDs to reduce permittency and promote job stability and worker protection. We have taken massive action against insecurity, compensating these workers for their loss of income during the crisis and addressing the causes of the excessive use of micro-contracts. Your bill does not propose any of this; It would only strengthen the inacceptable. We will continue this fight against the excessive use of short contracts, in close connection with the branches concerned. First of all, the mission that the Government entrusted to your colleague Jean-François Mbaye and Senator Xavier Iacovelli succeeded, they submitted their report to me earlier this week. They propose a new regulation of the CDS of use, which could make it possible to move towards a better security of precarious workers. Their proposals must enable us to reduce insecurity in certain sectors of activity.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u108	Ah, it's all right, we're reassured!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u109	More broadly, we are currently working on a new action plan to combat the excessive use of microcontracts. We must indeed open up dialogue with the trades most concerned and commit them to improving the quality of the job offered. This is an essential counterpart to the support they have received since the beginning of the crisis. We will, of course, accompany them in this step of enhanced regulation, possibly by helping them to develop alternative solutions recommended by the Iacovelli-Mbaye report, such as the interim CDI or the employers' groups. In addition to the incentives provided for in the reform of unemployment insurance, we are already going to strengthen the control of the abuse of short and usual CSDs and to work to reduce their use. Ladies and gentlemen, as you can see, we have been fully involved in the fight against insecurity since the first day of the crisis. Your bill is out of step with the situation in the country...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u110	You're the one who's out of line!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u111	It does not take into account the massive emergency aid deployed to protect job seekers or the economic recovery that is expected.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u112	Economic recovery may be, but we can't see the social recovery coming!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u113	More seriously, your text seems counterproductive to us in that it encourages the logic of confinement in the precariousness that it claims to fight. We cannot resolve this, and count on my mobilization and that of my teams to ensure that the economic recovery leads to sustainable and high-quality jobs. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] For the reasons I have just mentioned, the Government is against the provisions of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u114	You really have no shame!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u115	Ladies and gentlemen, we shall begin the general discussion. I would point out, so that there is no misunderstanding or frustration, that I will stop our work at midnight. Not all speakers will be able to speak.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u116	In the general debate, Mr Alain Bruneel spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u117	"Sit at the table of a restaurant. Escape the time of a show. Vibrate in unison in the stands. Go back to the room... We missed this life so much! This is the message published on social media by the President of the Republic last Wednesday, 9 June, on the occasion of the new phase of deconfination. On the same day, still on social media, Emmanuel Macron paid tribute to the restaurateurs and coffee makers, "these trades which bear the identity of our country, this art of living in our big cities, as in our terroirs and which had to face the crisis". A fine tribute, certainly, but an incomplete tribute. As often, there are forgotten people. For if restaurants, shows or stands again receive from the public, it is thanks to the dedication of millions of invisible, temporary workers, extras, individual contractors, seasonal workers, who work in sectors directly affected by the health crisis: events, hotels, culture, catering, maintenance and tourism. All these sectors are directly dependent on the so-called "intermittents" of employment, those workers who structurally alternate paid days according to the tasks or projects entrusted to them and, possibly, days compensated by the employment centre, when they are entitled to them. Through their work, they participate in the economic, tourist and cultural influence of our territories. They turn our country around and make this art of living possible, despite alarming precariousness. This precariousness stems from the succession of short-term contracts imposed on them. Their working hours are flexible, their working conditions are often degraded, and their wages are low. They juggle with small jobs and temporary missions, and are called at the last minute to come in reinforcement, during an evening, a week or a season. For them, nothing is ever lasting. It is sometimes understood in the dominant discourses that employees alternating periods of work and compensation would be profitors; It is in this spirit that the Government argues to justify the shameful reform of unemployment insurance, in the midst of an economic crisis. To hear you, the explosion of short contracts would be due to an overprotective unemployment insurance: that's not true, archifal! It is not unemployment insurance which generates short contracts, but the employer who chooses to favour employment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u118	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u119	A study published last month by the Directorate of Research, Studies and Statistics (DARES), an agency attached to the Ministry of Labour, points to the responsibility for this situation: "For some 20 years, employers have intensified their use of short-term employment contracts. »
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u120	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u121	As a reminder, the share of fixed-term contracts in hiring increased from 76% in 2000 to 87% in 2019, partly due to the increasing use of CSDs of less than one month. No, unemployment has never been a choice. It is not enough to cross the street to find a stable job, a fortiori in those areas where precariousness is officially recognized and validated by the Government – I want proof of this the approval of the Ministry of Labour, which makes intermittentity a recognized norm in many sectors or trades.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u122	Read the report!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u123	Madam Minister for Labour, Employment and Inclusion, each of us will never agree. We are revolutionaries; You're not for a penny. Far from being chosen, it is indeed a precarious situation which is affected by intermittent employment, a situation which weighs on health and morale. Moreover, the DARES study already cited points to the damage to privacy made difficult by an uncertain volume of hours and the need to remain available.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u124	Yes, that's the model you're defending!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u125	For several years, Liberals, like you, have been trying to impose their flexicurity model. To be modern would be to accept flexible work in return for a hypothetical security of the life course. In this case, these employees must assume flexibility but without any safety net. Here is a warning cry that you may have received: "Mr.Member, no less than 2 million people have been forgotten from the stimulus plans. The situation of these employees has deteriorated – divorces, evictions, suicides – under the sad daily lives of the forgotten at all costs. This bill is vital. We ask you to support her and convince your colleagues and vote on her. As Jeanne Balibar said during the ceremony of the Caesars, there is no assistance to anyone in danger. » Ladies and gentlemen, this message, sent by the group of insecure hotels, restaurants and events, you have all seen in your inbox. It illustrates the very high expectations of these employees in discontinuous employment. Most of them are now at the end of their rights because of the periods of confinement and the health restrictions imposed on their sector of activity. They feel forgotten by the State, because while employees in stable employment have benefited from support measures, including partial unemployment, most of those in discontinuous employment have had no accompanying measures. With this text, we propose to respond to this financial, social and psychological distress experienced by the intermittents of employment. To achieve this, we have a twofold objective: on the one hand, to introduce permanently recognised unemployment insurance rights; on the other hand, of course, respond to the urgency by means of concrete solidarity measures and immediate financial support. We therefore propose to compensate for the unusual losses caused by the health crisis and the cessation of these employees' activities. How could we turn our backs on this suffering, on these warning screams, while 100% of the CAC40's large companies, which announce record dividends, have received public aid? In the midst of a pandemic, shareholders will receive 22 per cent more compensation and will be able to make up 51 billion. After devouring the pactole of the recovery plan, they will do nothing; This is the miracle of the aid given without any counterpart. Solidarity cannot be reserved for the richest! The other great injustice that we are proposing to lift is that of unemployment insurance. Your reform, imposed in a dogmatic manner and without taking into account the realities experienced by the jobless, must enter into force on 1 July. We offer you the possibility of backtracking, so as not to come sanctioning employees already in great difficulty. Here is the question that intermittents of employment have asked me: how can we rejoice in seeing the Minister for Labour, Employment and Integration defend her reform of unemployment insurance as she massacres, when they resume their activity, those who already have nothing? The word "murder" is raw, but it is at the height of the anger and the attack that will be suffered by the 1.2 million people who will see their allocation decline in the first year, according to the projections made by UNEDIC. Moreover, the first victims of the change in the calculation of the daily reference wage will be the intermittents of employment. For them, it will be the double penalty: already victims of a violent economic crisis and of a precarious worker's status, they will also be punished by a reduction of their unemployment rights. Not only will the daily amount decrease, but the number of days compensated will also decrease.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u126	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u127	While more than a million of our citizens have fallen below the poverty line and French billionaires are ever more numerous, you want to put a new boost to inequality. This is unacceptable. You cannot persist in this devastating project, the country is not ready to follow you in this retrograde path. The unions are unanimous, all against you. The intermittents, the "interlutants", the jobless have occupied many theatres and symbolic places, with the first demand, the abandonment of the reform of the unemployment insurance. The Council of State even rejected your first decree, in the name of the principle of equality. We therefore propose to stop pampering the rich...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u128	Cartoon!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u129	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR, SOC and FI groups]] ... and to take care of humans.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u130	Mr Dominique Da Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u131	This bill, which we may not be able to complete, aims to create exceptional co-vide aid and to re-establish a special unemployment insurance scheme for temporary contract holders only. Behind a title with the chosen words, "intermittents of employment", in fact, the rapporteur, you speak only to holders of fixed-term contracts of use and to temporary workers. This is an arbitrary and unfair choice, because they are not the only ones suffering from the precarious nature of their employment contract, especially during this crisis.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u132	I haven't seen any amendments!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u133	Together with the Government and the majority, we made the choice to help all employees in precarious situations in the same way, since they had worked more than one hundred and thirty-eight days in 2019, regardless of the type of contract. Without waiting for this bill, we have been able to protect all the workers – the French know – including the categories of employees you want to promote with this text. In particular, we have introduced a monthly income guarantee of 900 euros, which benefits all workers following the short contracts, of which I recall that the average monthly income was 778 euros in 2019 before the crisis, half financed by unemployment insurance. In total, since last November and until August, EUR 1.3 billion of emergency aid will have been allocated to support the income of all employees on short-term contracts. It is therefore a response to the situation of precariousness at work that the Government, together with the majority, has brought. It is precisely because the Group of the Republic on the move wants to fight against precarious work that we cannot support a bill that assumes a renunciation. Indeed, with regard to the workers whom you call temporary employment, the explanatory statement of your proposed law states that they are "insecure because their jobs require the succession of short-term contracts". We can't confuse jobs with precarious contracts.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u134	What about the show's intermittents?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u135	Fortunately, most employers who offer these short contracts train their employees in occupations where they can also be recruited into sustainable contracts. On the contrary, the La République en marche group wants to combat as much as possible the precariousness of employees in short contracts, especially when they are repeatedly repeated for an endless period of time. In fact, this is the diagnosis made by our parliamentary colleagues, MP Jean François Mbaye and Senator Xavier Iacovelli, in their report on the abuse of customary CSDs. They quote an uplifting figure: 42% of these short contracts last less than a day. Even if we understand the specificities of certain sectors, the will of the majority is not to promote this permittance, which costs unemployment insurance almost EUR 3 billion annually. Each of us can understand the extreme fragility of such a model in every severe economic crisis. Locking in insecure conditions, which translates into an alternation of short contracts and periods of unemployment, is an increasing phenomenon, with an explosion in the number of contracts of 250% over the last 15 years and an average working time which has been falling continuously – as you have pointed out, Madam Minister for Labour, Employment and Integration. However, the European comparison is not very good since we have ten times more recourse to short contracts than in Germany; This is proof that there is no fatality. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] The need for flexibility should not be at the expense of the working conditions and personal life projections of workers, nor should it be at the expense of the UNEDIC accounts, which ensure the sustainability of the unemployment insurance system. For all these reasons, the La République en marche group will not vote for this bill, which is in contradiction with the increase in sustainable employment and the increase in competence that we continue to defend.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u136	Mrs Pascale Fontenel-Person has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u137	The bill we are looking at is aimed at introducing specific emergency aid to temporary contract holders affected by the consequences of the health and economic crisis. If we cannot deny the extremely difficult situation in which these workers found themselves in the past period, and are still for some, we cannot let it be said that nothing has been done to help them. The majority took up this issue alongside the Government, since as of November 2020, a monthly income guarantee of 900 euros for all workers engaged in short-term contracts was introduced. This scheme seems to be more favourable than the one proposed here, since it is aimed at all precarious workers and not just temporary contract holders. It will be extended until August to take account of the partial and partial resumption of certain sectors of activity; The tourism economy is obviously the main concern. In total, this aid will represent an investment of EUR 1.5 billion. Moreover, a further extension of the scheme until the end of the calendar year may need to be considered, depending on the resumption of activity in the most affected sectors. In all cases, the Government has been able to demonstrate its responsiveness over the past year and we are confident that it will be able to take appropriate measures in a timely manner. In addition, the text before us proposes to re-establish a specific unemployment insurance scheme for intermittents in employment and temporary workers, including a specific annex to the UNEDIC Convention. If that were the case, we would be against the initiative taken by the trade unions in 2017 which, while this regime existed, decided to abolish it. Where would the consistency of the legislator be? Such a measure would only encourage the use of short contracts and perpetuate the precariousness of such workers. The question of permittency must be dealt with globally and definitively; It is necessary to avoid any effect of bounty. In fact, everyone here can cite examples. The health crisis has revealed some practices. We need to be lucid, transparent, and analyse them. It has been found that, in some sectors, employees often prefer – I tell you, I've lived for 30 years – to sign a CSD rather than a CDI to be freer, but also because the CDD of use sometimes offers a more comfortable and more rewarding situation than permanent employment. Moreover, this contributes strongly to the development of what I call "grey work". Permittance is not always experienced, it can also be chosen – the ability to choose is something interesting in our society. What you are proposing will be a long-term incentive to allow and will increase certain inequalities between sectors. The Dem Group disagrees with the provisions contained in this text, which would in some way institutionalise the partial activity financed by unemployment insurance. This one is there to guarantee the professional rebound in an economic accident of life, but cannot and must not be a way of life. Since the beginning of the legislature, our majority has pledged to focus on sustainable employment and to encourage vocational training and skills development. The bill runs counter to that ambition. In the case of CDDUs, however, it seems essential to think about a new organisation. I have read carefully the report of our colleague Jean François Mbaye and Senator Xavier Iacovelli: it is enlightening, detailed and I fully agree with the proposals contained therein. I hope, Madam Minister, that we can get something out of it. In conclusion, I would like to go back to a provision in the text on the specific contribution to be made by employers to finance the specific unemployment insurance scheme for intermittents. Apart from the fact that this contribution is neither quantified nor accompanied by criteria, which does not allow for an analysis of its concrete effects, it would seem inconsistent to introduce such a measure. It would be an additional burden for businesses, 86% of which are SMEs in the tourism sector. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Therefore, for all these reasons, the Group of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and allied Democrats will oppose the adoption of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u138	Mr Gérard Leseul has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u139	Combating precariousness and taking emergency measures in favour of intermittent employment: this is the subject of this bill. It is the result of a long work carried out with the intermittents of employment within the framework of the Interparliamentary Monitoring Committee on the reform of unemployment insurance, set up in September 2020 on the initiative of the rapporteur, Elsa Faucillon, whom I welcome this evening for having finally managed to include the subject of intermittent employment and its recognition on the agenda of our Assembly. My colleagues Laurence Dumont, Michèle Victory and Boris Vallaud actively participated in this work and very actively supported this bill. While few sectors have been spared the crisis of the covid-19, some have suffered more than others and are likely to take time to recover. This is the case in the areas of accommodation and catering, events, culture, or personal services. Intermittents employed in these sectors, by definition with short contracts, are thus victims of the health crisis. In the first quarter of 2020, interim employment fell by around 40% compared to the previous quarter. It was thus 320,000 temporary workers who found themselves unemployed, without always being able to claim an allowance because they had not worked long enough. The exceptional bonus that you mentioned earlier, Madam Minister, which was introduced by the Government, arrived too late and appears insufficient to help the intermittents who were deprived of their jobs, even though they were already too much of a problem. Too many of them were excluded from the premium, the amount of which was lower than expected. The situation of intermittents in employment, already dispossessed of their own unemployment insurance schemes since 2017, is of particular concern on the eve of the entry into force of the unemployment insurance reform. This reform will place a large number of individuals holding short contracts, who subscribe to low-paid small jobs and short-term missions, in a less favourable situation than they are in today, at the same time as it will lead to significant inequalities in the treatment of recipients. In fact, if short contracts are to be discouraged in favour of more stable contracts, they will only have the effect of penalising those who occupy the first ones out of necessity. Thus, the choices made by the Government will, unfortunately, prove inadequate in a just convalescent economic and social context. The draft law contains two main measures for intermittent employment. The first, of a short-term nature, is to grant them financial assistance, designed to compensate fully for the income losses they suffered in 2020. The second, structural in nature, is to re-establish a specific unemployment insurance scheme for their benefit. The Socialist and Related Group will vote for this bill, unfortunately rejected by the Committee on Social Affairs because, in recent years, the intermittents in employment have repeatedly expressed their distress and concern at the fact that they will not be able to take advantage of a still uncertain recovery in economic activity and that certain professions will become damaged or even disappear. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and LT groups]] We will vote on this bill, because it is in line with our deep conviction that the State must provide vulnerable and vulnerable populations with dignified protection and decent living guarantees.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u140	Mrs Annie Chapelier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u141	What a day! It started in an absolutely extraordinary atmosphere,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u142	Deletion!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u143	... with a magnificent text whose examination has raised things which, from a parliamentary point of view, raise questions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u144	They're unacceptable!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u145	Yes, scandalous!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u146	It continued with a text on agricultural pensions, which allowed us to move forward on many issues. Then we examined a bill by our colleague Moetai Brotherson, which referred to real suffering and which, given its importance, would have deserved more Members to be present. And now we come to our colleague Elsa Faucillon's bill for emergency measures for intermittent employment. If we all share the ambition of this bill, which is to fight against the precariousness of workers following short contracts and periods of unemployment, we do not agree with you, Madam rapporteur, on the means of achieving this. Article 1 of the draft law provides for the granting of short-term State aid to all intermittents and temporary workers registered as job seekers, in order to compensate all their income losses since the start of the health crisis and to take as a reference the wages received over the last three years before 2020. This is precisely the purpose of the exceptional aid introduced by the Government in November 2020, which aims to guarantee a minimum income of 900 euros per month for all precarious workers. More than 600,000 jobseekers benefit from this premium, which was extended until the end of the summer for a total of EUR 1.3 billion. The "whatever it costs" is therefore also a reality for the intermittents of employment or performance. We are therefore not in favour of aid being added to other aid. The second structural proposal you put forward is to re-establish an unemployment insurance scheme specific to intermittents in employment and temporary workers. We do not wish to recreate such a regime, which has been a disappointment and which could lead to encouraging signatures of short contracts. This runs counter to the ambition of our majority, which is to combat the abuse of precarious contracts. I would also point out that this annex was deleted at the request of the trade unions themselves. I would also like to point out that the situation of intermittent employees is improving significantly with the gradual resumption of tourist and cultural activity, which is the result of the lifting of health restrictions. In hotels, cafes and restaurants alone, 40,000 jobs were filled between January and April, which corresponds to 80% of the offers issued. Many jobs therefore remain to be filled; recruitment difficulties are significant. While the outlook for the coming weeks is clear, it is not a question of denying the difficulties faced by precarious employees since March 2020 and the uncertainty that still weighs on the coming months. Crises have the virtue of revealing the weaknesses of the systems they strike. The covid-19 pandemic showed us, if it was still necessary to do so, the limits of permittency. This method of employment does not adequately protect workers, who are mostly women and young people, and keeps them in a precarious state in times of crisis. The solutions that you are proposing today do not meet our ambition to remove intermittent employees from precariousness, even if we understand their intention. We prefer to encourage training or mechanisms for long-term employment, which does not exclude the payment of exceptional aid, particularly in times of crisis, as we have been able to do, in order to compensate for the effects of a cyclical shock. This is the path that the Government and the majority have chosen to support intermittent workers in the crisis we are going through. [[Applause on the benches of the Action ens group]] You will have understood that, for all these reasons, the Group of the European People's Party will vote against this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u147	Mrs Nicole Sanquer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u148	When referring to short contracts, I believe that two very important parameters must be taken into account: the nuance and the context. The shade is important because, as you say very well in the explanatory memorandum to this text, the rapporteur, we still need short contracts. We cannot do without it, and certain economic sectors can only propose such contracts. I am thinking of the sectors most affected by the health crisis, such as hotels and restaurants, but also of the summer seasons, which are an opportunity for many young people to take a first step in the world of work. As far as nuance is concerned, we must bear in mind that even though the CDI seems to us to be the most protective contract, some of our fellow citizens do not want it. More and more, we will be required to pursue several occupations in completely different fields in the same professional career. Therefore, in some situations, the short contract may be preferred to the CDI. The short contract therefore remains an indispensable component of our economy, even though there is still fighting to reduce its precarious character. For example, I am appalled when I see that 80% of part-time employees are women, while one in two employees is one. As far as the context is concerned, then, the measures must adapt according to whether we are in a period of relative stability or crisis. It is this consideration of the context in which, if the IDU and independent group were not opposed to the reform of unemployment insurance yesterday, we now feel that it is not appropriate. I would point out that it is also the position of Mrs Pénicaud, former Minister of Labour, who is at the initiative of this reform. How can we believe, given the situation on the labour market, that a person will accumulate short contracts with the sole aim of recharging his rights? If a person experiences a period of inactivity in the context we know, it is because the labour market is totally affected. We must also take into account the context of tomorrow, because if the economy is in the midst of a recovery, we must not forget that aid to businesses has reduced the destruction of businesses by 40% in 2020 compared to 2019. In other words, it is only after the aid is cut that the natural destruction of companies that should have occurred in 2020 will occur. In your proposal for a law, the rapporteur, you plan to establish a specific unemployment insurance for precarious workers. You yourself estimate that the number of beneficiaries could reach 2.3 million. Undoubtedly, the cost of your device is enormous. Of course, we share your willingness to protect the most vulnerable people, because they are the ones who have the most to suffer as a result of the crisis. On the other hand, the creation of specific unemployment insurance for 2.3 million people is simply not sustainable for public finances, especially in this unprecedented context of deterioration of public accounts. We understand that this bill seeks to counter the reform of unemployment insurance which comes into force on 1 July. The criticism of this reform is one thing, this bill, which would cost several billion euros, is another. The IDU and independent group will vote against this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-17-O1311.u149	Next meeting, tomorrow, at 9 a.m.: Questions on the financial support of the State for communities with special status; Questions on the theme: "The hospital: what organisation, what funding? » The meeting is adjourned.
